http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/06_enviromeas.pdf

   (QYLURQPHQWDO 0HDVXUHPHQWV CSTL activities that support stewardship of
   the environment extend from the enhancement of industrial process
   efficiency for pollution prevention to the assessment and remediation
   of environmental problems through the development of measurements,
   data, models, and reference standards. CSTL has served as a partner to
   both industry and measurement laboratories for many years in dealing
   with environmental concerns by providing the tools needed for
   sustainable development and the shared goals of environmental
   protection and socio- economic growth. Environmental activities within
   CSTL fall under the broad categories of Assessment (identification and
   measurement of pollutants and monitoring of environmental health) and
   Green Chemistry (pollution prevention through the improvement of
   industrial processes). Environmental Assessment CSTL projects related
   to the assessment of environmental health cover a wide range, including
   the development of methods to measure pollutants, the monitoring of
   atmospheric and marine environments, the compilation of reference data
   and certification of reference materials for use in environmental
   measurements, and the accreditation of commercial water testing
   laboratories. NIST scientists collect sediment from the Buffalo River
   in the development of SRM 2704 Commerical Laboratory Proficiency
   Testing (PT) Studies R.M. Parris, W.E. May (839), and C.D. Faison (TS)
   The Analytical Chemistry Division and National Voluntary Laboratory
   Accreditation Program have completed the first year of this program
   that was designed to provide a system under which private sector
   companies and state laboratories are accredited by NIST to provide
   proficiency testing that meets the needs of the Environmental
   Protection Agency and states for regulated chemical, microbial, and
   radiochemical parameters. In our role of developing and managing the
   program for chemical and microbial species, Standard Reference
   Materials have been established and maintained to support the program,
   and we have conducted blind sample audits of PT samples on an ongoing
   basis for the 12 currently accredited providers covering all 48
   chemistry and microbiology PT program fields. 53 Sampling and
   Measurement of Atmospheric Aerosol Carbon from Forest Fires J.M. Conny,
   G.A. Klouda (837), and J.F. Slater (University of New Hampshire)
   Agricultural burning and wildfire activity are major sources of
   atmospheric aerosols that adversely affect global climate, health, and
   visibility. The chemical characterization of particles from burning is
   essential for assessing its contribution in ambient air and, in turn,
   for predicting the health and environmental effects of unabated
   burning. Due to emission variation, sampling artifacts, and measurement
   method differences, fundamental challenges exist in determining the
   carbon composition of aerosols that accurately represent large-scale
   vegetative burning. The Surface and Microanalysis Science Division has
   been developing a procedure At left, aerosol sampling during flaming
   (arrow points to sampler) that uses the thermo- At right, differences
   in collected aerosol particles from flaming optical method, which and
   smoldering fire conditions involves the absorption of laser radiation
   by filter-collected aerosol particles at varying temperatures, to
   improve the accuracy and uncertainty in the measurement of the black
   carbon to total carbon ratio. This ratio is of great significance in
   parameterizing climate change models that relate to global warming.
   Measurement Quality Assurance for Contaminants in the Marine
   Environment M.M. Schantz, R.M. Parris, and S.A. Wise (839) For over a
   decade, in collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's National Status and Trends Program, the Analytical
   Chemistry Division has coordinated annual intercomparison exercises for
   the measurement of polycylic aromatic hydrocarbons, polychlorinated
   biphenyl congeners, and chlorinated pesticides in marine tissue and
   sediment to Shown above are the results for 4,4'-DDE from 42
   laboratories in the 1999 exercise in which Fish Homogenate IV
   (candidate NIST SRM 1946) and Marine Sediment IX (candidate NIST SRM
   1941b) were distributed assess the comparability of analytical
   measurements among members of the marine environmental measurement
   community. Current participants include 42 federal, state/municipal,
   university/college, private sector, and international laboratories. The
   data received are combined to provide an assigned value for the unknown
   used in the exercise. Participation in the program is written into a
   number of federal government solicitations, including at least one
   Mineral Management Service and eight U.S. Environmental Protection
   Agency solicitations in the last year. 54 New Analytical Methodologies
   for Environmentally Significant Organic Species M.M. Schantz, D.
   Bezabeh, W.W. Brubaker, Jr., J. R. Kucklick, S. Tutschku, and S.A. Wise
   (839) Gas and liquid chromatographic methodologies are being developed
   for the quantification of organotins, dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD) and
   dibenzofuran (PCDF) e congeners, polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCN),
   and sponsRe nitro-substituted polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
   (nitro-PAHs) in natural matrices. These highly toxic substances have
   been measured in a number of SRMs with some verification through
   interlaboratory studies coordinated jointly by NIST and Environment
   Time (min) Canada. A typical chromatogram for the measurement of
   organotin species in SRMs using solid-phase microextraction  gas
   chromatography with atomic emission detection NIST Traceable Reference
   Materials (NTRMTM) from Commercial Sources W.E. May, F. Guenther, W.
   Dorko, G.W. Kramer, J.C. Travis, G. Turk, J. Fassett, and R. Greenberg
   (839) NTRMs are reference materials that have a well-defined
   traceability linkage to NIST that has been established using criteria
   and protocols defined by NIST and tailored to meet the needs of the
   metrological community to be served. Formal programs have been
   established to facilitate the commercial production and distribution of
   these materials in the areas of gas mixtures and optical filter
   standards, and programs for elemental solution and metal alloy
   standards are in the planning stages. Many of these materials,
   particularly pollutant gases and toxic element solutions, are critical
   for quality assurance of environmental measurements, and the increased
   availability of reference materials with a well-defined traceability
   linkage resulting from NTRM programs in these areas will significantly
   benefit our customers. Aqueous-Phase Atmospheric Chemistry of the
   Nitrate Radical P. Neta, G.A. Poskrebyshev, and R.E. Huie (838) The
   behavior of the nitrate radical, NO3, is being studied to establish its
   role in the chemistry of the aqueous phase of the atmosphere. NO3,
   which is NO3 is the most important free formed through the interaction
   of NO2 and O3, is the most radical in the atmosphere at important free
   radical in the atmosphere at night, and is a night, and is a critical
   critical component to atmospheric chemistry models. Since component to
   atmospheric there is great difficulty in generating NO3 in aqueous
   chemistry models. solution, laboratory results of reactivity studies
   are often discordant. This study has provided reliable values for rate
   constants of reactions critical to atmospheric chemistry. 55 Reference
   Methods and Standards for Environmentally-Significant Inorganic Species
   R.R. Greenberg, R. Demiralp, W.R. Kelly, R.M. Lindstrom, S.E. Long, and
   R. Zeisler (839) Environmental monitoring and research programs are
   being supported through the development of analytical methods and SRMs.
   A primary example is the development of ICP-MS and RNAA methods for
   mercury that has led to the certification of the The improved accuracy
   and mercury concentration in SRM 1632c (Bituminous Coal). precision of
   the NIST methods The improved accuracy and precision of the NIST
   methods have resulted in SRMs that have resulted in SRMs that provide
   traceability for power provide traceability for power industry
   measurements of mercury. The Environmental industry measurements of
   Protection Agency (EPA) has stated that mercury is the top mercury.
   priority elemental pollutant in the environment, but in recent years no
   SRMs have been available to provide the traceability for power industry
   measurements due to the difficulty in making accurate and precise
   low-level determinations of mercury in a coal matrix. The Electric
   Power Research Institute (EPRI) has been conducting a round-robin study
   to assess the status of the most commonly used industry methods for
   mercury in coal, but the lack of a reliably certified coal SRM has
   initially limited the assessment of data accuracy. The improved
   accuracy and precision (method agreement was within ~1%) of the NIST
   methods will alleviate these problems as well as facilitate reliable
   long-term stability testing of SRMs certified for mercury. Structure,
   Adsorptive Separations, and Characterization of Surfactant/Clay
   Complexes C.D. Muzny, T.J. Bruno, and H.J.M. Hanley (838) Clay is a key
   inorganic substance in a broad array of applications ranging from
   pollution prevention and remediation, enhanced oil recovery, the
   treatment of petroleum liquids, the manufacture of cosmetics and
   pharmaceuticals, and the synthesis of polymer nanocomposite materials.
   An understanding of clay-organic chemical interactions and the effects
   these interactions have on the structure of clay complexes is a
   critical issue for future developments in all of these applications.
   Characterization of structural changes induced in polymer-clay
   nanocomposite materials by variation of the organic clay surface Clay
   is a key inorganic modification is being examined by small-angle
   neutron scattering substance in a broad array of applications ranging
   (SANS), wide-angle x-ray scattering (WAXS), and dynamic light from
   pollution prevention scattering (DLS), to permit correlation of
   small-scale structural and remediation, changes with macroscopic
   property changes. In addition, enhanced oil recovery, the advances were
   made in physicochemical gas chromatography by treatment of petroleum
   devising stable clay- and organoclay-coated capillary columns to
   liquids, the manufacture of study the chemical kinetics of the
   clay-organic interactions. The cosmetics and capillary column approach
   is more efficient, requires lower column pharmaceuticals, and the
   temperatures, and produces values of the enthalpy of adsorption
   synthesis of polymer (Hads) with a much lower uncertainty than
   conventional nanocomposite materials. techniques. The scattering
   results have provided evidence that complete exfoliation of clay
   particles in a polymer matrix is very difficult to achieve. When
   nanocomposite materials were produced from well-dispersed organoclay
   solutions, an apparent flocculation transition was observed during
   polymerization preventing the complete dispersion of the clay in the
   polymer matrix. Future plans are to combine computer simulation
   techniques with the results of the scattering investigations in order
   to accurately model the local structures present in clay solutions and
   nanocomposite materials, and to coordinate structure surface studies
   with thermodynamic information obtained from the coated capillary
   column. In addition, we have begun extending the chromatographic
   technique to the measurement of the diffusion of pollutants into the
   clay and organoclay system. 56 A Primary Reference Photometer for Ozone
   Measurements P.M. Chu, J.E. Norris, and F.R. Guenther (839) In
   partnership with researchers at the Bureau International des Poids et
   Mesures (BIPM), the Analytical Chemistry Division is developing an
   advanced primary ozone photometer with improved SI-traceability to
   assure the comparability and SI-traceability of global ozone
   measurements. The new instrument will allow for optical probes at
   multiple wavelengths rather than at a single Hg line, so that ozone,
   nitrogen dioxide, nitric oxide concentrations and other contaminants
   can be measured simultaneously. Viewing the Absorption Cells of the
   Standard Reference Ozone Photometer Gas Sensing with Microhotplate
   Sensor Arrays R. Cavicchi, S. Semancik, C. Wheeler, J. Allen, J.
   Tiffany, M. Carrier, J. Melvin (836) J. Suehle (EEEL) D. DeVoe, and B.
   Panchapakesan (University of Maryland) Details provided in the Chemical
   and Biochemical Sensing section. Development of Optical Methods for
   Chemical Sensing A.C.R. Pipino, J.T. Hodges (836) D.J. Vanderah, and
   C.W. Muese (831) Details provided in the Chemical and Biochemical
   Sensing section. National Particulate Matter Research Program R.M.
   Verkouteren, G.A. Klouda, R.A. Fletcher, J.A. Small (837), J.R. Sieber,
   R.L. Zeisler, S.A. Wise (839), and J.M. Ondov (University of Maryland)
   As a consequence of increased interest in atmospheric particulate
   matter (PM) research that resulted from the 1997 revisions to the
   National Ambient Air Quality Standards designed by the EPA, the
   Analytical Chemistry Division and the Surface and Microanalysis Science
   Division of NIST along with the University of Maryland have generated
   proposals to address measurement issues. This has resulted in an
   interagency agreement between EPA and NIST to 1) develop an urban
   PM-on-filter reference material for carbonaceous species; 2) develop
   methods and metrology needed to provide PM calibration materials for
   organic and elemental carbon analysis; 3) develop a special thin-film
   glass standard for X-ray fluorescence analysis; 4) develop technology
   for large scale collection of air particulate matter less than 2.5
   micrometers in diameter (for subsequent SRM development); and 5)
   develop a New Standard Reference Material for modern bulk urban dust
   material (and soluble extracts) Air-borne Particulate Concentrations
   with reference values for selected organic (SRM 2784 Urban Dust On
   Quartz constituents. Filters) 57 Quantitative Infrared Database
   Developed to Support Remote Sensing Applications P.M. Chu, F.R.
   Guenther, G.C. Rhoderick, and P.A. Johnson (839) NIST Standard
   Reference Database 79 (SRD 79) "Quantitative Infrared Database" is
   being developed to support optical-based measurements of chemical
   emissions and hazardous air pollutants (HAP). Currently, absorption
   coefficient data for 30 HAPs on the U.S. EPA priority list is available
   in the standard JCAMP-DX format to enable universal access to the data.
   Future direction for the project will involve continued data
   acquisition for compounds listed in the 1990 US EPA Clean Air Act
   Amendment, as well as for those compounds that are of concern in global
   warming and emissions trading. Additionally, intercomparisons of NIST
   primary standards and molar absorptivity data with other National
   Metrology Institute's data will be expanded to facilitate the use of
   this database in issues of global interest and impact. Green Chemistry
   CSTL projects related to Green Chemistry result from our mission as the
   Nation's Reference Laboratory to provide the chemical measurement
   infrastructure to both enhance U.S. industry's productivity and
   competitiveness, and to improve environmental quality. Towards that
   shared goal, the projects described below involve the development of
   innovative procedures and reference materials and the compilation of
   critical data that will significantly improve efficiency and reduce
   waste in industrial processes. Standards to Assist Perfluorocarbon
   Reductions in Aluminum Production G.C. Rhoderick, P.M. Chu, and F.R.
   Guenther (839) The Analytical Chemistry Division is helping the
   Voluntary Aluminum Industrial Partnership (VAIP) to reduce emissions of
   perfluorinated carbon The development of these compounds (PFCs) and
   greenhouse transfer PFC gas standards has gases and improve the
   efficiency of assisted the aluminum industry in establishing
   traceability and aluminum production through the mutual confidence in
   data development of a suite of eight primary generated for PFC
   emissions gas standards for CF4 and C2F6. The development of these
   transfer PFC gas standards has assisted the aluminum industry in
   establishing traceability and mutual confidence in data generated for
   PFC emissions. The improved accuracy of measurements resulting from
   these standards has permitted better understanding and control of the
   "anode effects" that cause the production of PFCs, and in 1999 the VAIP
   reported reductions in PFC emissions by 41 %, equivalent to a reduction
   of nearly 8 million metric tons of CO2, from 1990 levels. Atmospheric
   Lifetimes, OH Kinetics, and UV Spectra of Bromine-Substituted
   Fluoroalkenes V.L. Orkin, F. Louis, M.J. Kurylo, and R.E. Huie (838)
   Details provided in the Chemical and Biochemical Data section.
   Application of Process Models and Controllers to Semiconductor
   Processing R. W. Davis, J. E. Maslar, E. F. Moore (836), D. R. Burgess,
   Jr. (838), R. L. Axelbaum (Washington University), and S. H. Ehrman
   (University of Maryland) Details provided in the Microelectronics
   section. 58 Reference Standards for Zeolites J.R. Sieber, T. W. Vetter,
   T.F. Marlow, R.L. Zeisler (839), and S. Turner (837) Zeolites are
   environmentally friendly: non-hazardous, regenerable, and
   non-corrosive. Zeolite catalysts are widely used in industry, but the
   characterization of zeolite composition is critical since variations in
   silica-to- alumina ratios, pore sizes, surface area, cations, and
   incorporated metals produce a wide range of adsorbent and catalytic
   properties. The need for zeolite reference materials was identified at
   a National Science Foundation sponsored workshop with participants from
   the research community, users, and suppliers. The lack of common
   materials for comparative measurements was identified as an important
   barrier to the development of new materials. These SRMs will provide a
   basic set of zeolite types to benchmark physical and chemical
   measurements. Chemical composition Zeolite Standard Reference
   measurements for these standards were made in the Materials (SRMs) have
   been Analytical Chemistry Division using X-ray Fluorescence developed
   for use in the Spectrometry, and nuclear and classical methods. The
   minimization of pollution and the physical parameters (particle size
   and lattice parameters) treatment of effluents in industrial were
   measured in the Surface and Microanalysis Science processes. Division,
   which championed this project, and the Materials Science and
   Engineering Laboratory. 06(/Ã Wastewater Chorination/Dechlorination
   Mechanisms W.A. MacCrehan, M. Bedner (839), and G. Helz (University of
   Maryland) To support national initiatives in developing
   environmentally-friendly, "green" chemical processing, the Analytical
   Chemistry Division is collaborating with the Water Resources Center of
   the University of Maryland to investigate new wastewater processing
   chemistries. The work is directed towards understanding and controlling
   chlorination residuals by developing a reliable measurement tool,
   liquid chromatography with post-column electrochemical detection, which
   can speciate the various forms of active residual chlorine. By
   understanding how the various chlorine species A schematic diagram of
   the separation system behave in their reaction with designed to toggle
   between a flow injection analysis dechlorination agents, we hope to
   help (FIA) (with no separation column) and the liquid sewage process
   engineers minimize chromatographic (LC) separation, permitting the
   direct the amount of wastewater chlorination evaluation of the factors
   that influence on-column by-products discharged into the losses such as
   solvent composition, pH, and environment. separation column material 59
   Detoxification of Polychlorinated Compounds in Water, Oil, and Soil by
   Electron Beam Irradiation D.L. Poster (839), R.E. Huie, P. Neta (838),
   M. Chaychian, C. Jones, J. Silverman, and M. Al- Sheikhly (University
   of Maryland) The radiolytic degradation of PCBs present in contaminated
   matrices is being examined to evaluate techniques that increase the
   efficiency of PCB dechlorination. Methods include using non-toxic
   additives, surfactants, and sonication during One hundred percent
   dechlorination the electron beam treatment, using additives (alcohol,
   of PCBs in BG&G transformer oil alkali) and applying an external high
   voltage electric has been achieved using electron field during electron
   beam irradiation in transformer oil, irradiation and added
   triethylamine. as well as evaluating the cost and performance of
   radiolytic treatment methodologies for the remediation of the most
   prevalent types of PCB contamination at polluted sites. One hundred
   percent dechlorination of PCBs in BG&G transformer oil has been
   achieved using electron irradiation and added triethylamine.
   Thermodynamic Data for Aqueous Terrestrial Processes at Subfreezing
   Temperatures D.G. Archer and R.W. Carter (838) Details provided in the
   Physical Property Data section. Properties of Lubricants and
   Lubricant/Refrigerant Blends M. Huber, T. Bruno (838), K. Henning, M.
   Spadi (Institute Louis Pasteur, France), A. Abdulagotov (Dagestan
   Scientific Center of Russian Academy of Sciences), and M. Killeen
   (Guest Researcher) Details provided in the Physical Property Data
   section. Biocatalytic Systems W.M. Byrnes, D.T. Gallagher, M.J. Holden,
   M.P. Mayhew, A.E. Roitberg, B. Coxon, and V.L. Vilker (831) Details
   provided in the Bio-Molecules and Materials section. 60
