http://www.mhc.gov/commish.html


   [mhc2p1a.gif]        [mhc2p1b.gif] [mhc2p1c.gif]
   [USEMAP:mhc2p1d.gif] [mhc2p1e.gif] [mhc2p1f.gif]
   [USEMAP:mhc2p1g.gif] [mhc2p1h.gif] [mhc2p1i.gif]


   [mhchp1c.gif] Legislative Mandate [mhchp1link1-divide.gif] Mission
   Statement [mhchp1d.gif] [mhchp1e.gif]
   Commissioners [mhchp1link3-divide.gif] Task Forces
   [mhchp1link4-divide.gif] News Room [mhchp1f.gif]
   [mhchp1g.gif]
          [mhclink1.gif]

   Susan Molinari

   Richard Ravitch
          [mhclink3.gif]

   Milroy A. Alexander

   Ophelia B. Basgal

   Catherine P. Bessant

   Tom Bozzuto

   Jeffrey S. Burum

   David Carley

   Herbert F. Collins

   Kent W. Colton

   Cushing N. Dolbeare

   Daniel R. Fauske

   Renee Glover

   Bart Harvey

   Feather O. Houstoun

   William H. Hudnut III

   H. Lewis Kellom

   Joseph B. Lynch

   Sam R. Moseley

   Dennis M. Penman

   Robert Rector

   David Stanley

   Commissioners

   SUSAN MOLINARI
   Susan Molinari is the President & CEO of the Washington Group. A Member
   of Congress from 1990 to 1997, Ms. Molinari quickly became “one of the
   most distinctive Members of the House” and “one of the most visible
   voices for her party” according to the authoritative Almanac of
   American Politics. As a result, after just four years in Washington,
   and just weeks after the election of the first GOP House majority in 40
   years, Susan Molinari was elected by her colleagues to the eight person
   Republican Majority Leadership, making her the highest ranking woman in
   the Congress. Unanimously re-elected to the House Leadership in 1996,
   Ms. Molinari also enjoyed another distinction that year as she was
   selected by GOP Presidential candidate Senator Robert Dole as Keynote
   Speaker at the Republican National Convention in San Diego. Throughout
   her Congressional tenure, Susan Molinari was an effective leader in the
   fight for crime victims, passing sweeping judicial reforms to toughen
   laws on repeat rapists and child molesters and to increase funding for
   the Violence Against Women Act. She also won passage of measures to
   enhance adoption, and promote breast cancer awareness and research
   funding. A member of the House Budget Committee, which produced
   Congress’ first balanced budget in 29 years, Susan Molinari chaired the
   Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Railroad Subcommittee,
   which passed legislation to overhaul the nation's Amtrak passenger rail
   service. As chair, she also implemented the sunsetting of the
   Interstate Commerce Commission, creation of the Surface Transportation
   Board, and played a key role in fashioning the historic, five year,
   multi-billion dollar transportation-funding bill (TEA-21) adopted in
   1997. Prior to Congress, Susan Molinari was twice elected to the New
   York City Council, where she was Minority Leader. In 1997, she left
   Congress to co-anchor the team inaugurating CBS News Saturday Morning,
   where she conducted on-air interviews of national and international
   newsmakers. Today, Ms. Molinari can regularly be seen on television
   analyzing politics, government and current events. In addition to her
   broadcast experience, Susan Molinari has addressed hundreds of
   audiences on politics, policies and the media in nearly every state.
   She is represented by the Harry Walker Agency of New York City as a
   lecturer before business and trade organizations, universities and
   civic groups from coast-to-coast and was selected as one of the Top
   Five Speakers of 1998 by the members of Toastmasters International. She
   is the co-author of the book Representative Mom: Balancing Budgets,
   Bill and Baby in the U.S. Congress (Doubleday, 1998). Susan Molinari
   has also authored scores of articles published by national magazines
   and daily newspapers on a wide variety of subjects, ranging from the
   role of women in politics to national fiscal policy. In 1998, Ms.
   Molinari was selected as a Visiting Fellow at the prestigious Institute
   of Politics/ Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in
   Cambridge, Massachusetts. She was chosen as Glamour magazine’s Woman of
   the year in 1996 and by Time magazine as one of forty of the nation’s
   most influential people under age forty in the nation’s most
   influential people under age forty in 1994.

   RICHARD RAVITCH
   Mr. Ravitch is a Principal in Ravitch Rice & Co. LLC and is Chair of
   Aquarius Management Corporation, the AFL-CIO Housing Investment Trust,
   and the Corporation for Supportive Housing. He is past Chair of the
   Bowery Savings Bank and of HRH Construction Corporation, which built
   more than 35,000 apartments for low- and middle-income families in New
   York, Washington DC, and San Juan, Puerto Rico. In 1966, President
   Lyndon Johnson appointed Mr. Ravitch to the United States Commission on
   Urban Problems. In 1975, at the request of Governor Hugh Carey of New
   York, Mr. Ravitch assumed the Chairmanship of the near bankrupt New
   York State Urban Development Corporation, successfully keeping the
   corporation solvent and completing construction of 30,000 low-income
   housing units. For the five years following, Mr. Ravitch served as the
   Chair of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, improving the
   region's transportation infrastructure.
     __________________________________________________________________

   MILROY A. ALEXANDER
   Milroy (Roy) Alexander is the Executive Director of the Colorado
   Housing and Finance Authority. He joined the staff of the Authority in
   October 1988, as Assistant Director of Finance, and was CHFA’s Director
   of Finance from 1990 to 2000, during which time CHFA raised and
   invested over $2 billion in its programs. He became Executive Director
   in January 2001. Mr. Alexander, an accounting graduate of Metropolitan
   State College, Denver, Colorado, with a Bachelor of Science degree, was
   previously a financial manager with a major Colorado medical
   instruments manufacturer and a senior manager with Touche Ross, a
   big-eight international accounting and consulting firm. Mr. Alexander
   is a member of the Government Finance Officers Association, Colorado
   Society of Certified Public Accountants, and the American Institute of
   Certified Public Accountants. He has numerous additional professional
   and civic activities.

   OPHELIA B. BASGAL
   Ms. Basgal is Executive Director of the Housing Authorities of Alameda
   County and Dublin, California. She has 26 years of experience in
   affordable housing development and management, including public housing
   and Section 8 programs, use of Community Development Block Grant and
   redevelopment loans and grants, and various other HUD programs. In
   addition to her work with housing authorities, Ms. Basgal has completed
   several private consulting contracts on housing issues.

   CATHERINE P. BESSANT
   Ms. Bessant is President of Bank of America Florida. She is responsible
   for all consumer and commercial banking activities in the state. In
   addition to overseeing more than 20,000 associates, Ms. Bessant is
   responsible for a statewide delivery network that includes more than
   800 banking center locations and 1,400 automatic teller machines. She
   also is a member of the bank's Operating Committee.

   TOM BOZZUTO
   Mr. Bozzuto is President and Chief Executive Officer of Bozzuto and
   Associates, Inc., of Greenbelt, Maryland. During his career, Mr.
   Bozzuto has overseen the development, construction, and management of
   more than 25,000 primarily multifamily homes throughout the
   mid-Atlantic states. In addition, he has been an active board member in
   numerous nonprofit organizations.

   JEFFREY S. BURUM
   Mr. Burum is the founder and Executive Director of National Housing
   Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization focused on the
   preservation of existing, at-risk, affordable rental housing
   nationwide. Mr. Burum has extensive experience in community
   revitalization, affordable housing development, acquisition, and
   rehabilitation, including private sector development and the use of
   creative financial structures to develop, acquire, and preserve housing
   for low-income families.

   DAVID CARLEY
   Mr. Carley is former President of Carley Capital Group, a nationwide
   builder of low-income and market-rate housing as well as commercial
   properties. He currently is a consultant on health care and housing for
   the elderly. Mr. Carley has also been President of a mortgage insurance
   company operating throughout the United States, Director of the
   Wisconsin Department of Resource Development, and President and Chief
   Executive Officer of the Medical College of Wisconsin. He received a
   doctorate in political science from the University of Wisconsin. Mr.
   Carley also served on President Gerald Ford's task force on Health
   Delivery Systems.

   HERBERT F. COLLINS
   Mr. Collins is Chair and co-founder of Boston Capital Corporation, a
   diversified real estate investment company serving clients nationwide
   and internationally. Boston Capital specializes in apartment housing
   developed under the federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit program and
   is the fourth largest owner of multifamily housing in the United
   States. Mr. Collins has also served as Chair of the Massachusetts
   Housing Policy Commission and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston.

   KENT W. COLTON
   Mr. Colton is President of his own company, K. Colton LLC, where he
   conducts a wide range of work related to the housing industry. In
   addition, Mr. Colton was appointed Senior Scholar in Housing Studies
   and the Jacob Wertheim Research Fellow for the Betterment of Industrial
   Relations at the Joint Center for Housing Studies, Harvard University,
   in June 1999. Mr. Colton served as the Executive Vice President and
   Chief Executive Officer of the National Association of Home Builders
   for 15 years and has also served as the Executive Vice President of
   Policy, Planning, and Economic Research for Freddie Mac. He was the
   Staff Director of the President's Commission on Housing in the early
   1980s and was a Professor at Brigham Young University and an Associate
   Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

   CUSHING N. DOLBEARE
   Ms. Dolbeare is a housing policy consultant. Her focus involves
   analysis of low-income housing needs and programs at the national
   level; analysis of federal budget and economic policy; analysis of
   local housing needs, programs, and policies; and lecturing and speaking
   on housing and low-income issues. She is founder and Chair Emeritus of
   the National Low Income Housing Coalition and active with a number of
   other housing and public interest organizations.

   DANIEL R. FAUSKE
   Mr. Fauske is Chief Executive Officer / Executive Director for the
   Alaska Housing Finance Corporation (AHFC), a self-supporting, non-stock
   public corporation and government instrumentality with assets in excess
   of $4.4 billion. Mr. Fauske was instrumental in negotiating with the
   legislature and the governor to establish an asset transfer plan
   between the AHFC and the state, improving the Corporation's capacity to
   provide Alaskans access to safe, quality, affordable housing. Mr.
   Fauske is on the Governor's Jobs Cabinet and the Rural Sanitation
   Committee and served as a member of Fannie Mae's National Housing
   Impact Advisory Council. From 1985 until 1993, he was Chief Financial
   Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of the North Slope Borough.

   RENEE GLOVER
   Ms. Glover has been Executive Director of The Housing Authority of the
   City of Atlanta since 1994, where she has been leading efforts to
   revitalize the authority's housing and develop mixed-income,
   mixed-finance communities. Before becoming Executive Director, Ms.
   Glover chaired the Atlanta Housing Authority's Board of Commissioners.
   She also currently serves as President of the Council of Large Public
   Housing Authorities.

   BART HARVEY
   Mr. Harvey is Chair of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive
   Officer of The Enterprise Foundation. Mr. Harvey also serves on the
   Board of Directors of The Enterprise Social Investment Corporation and
   The Enterprise Development Company. From 1974 to 1984, Mr. Harvey
   served in various domestic and international positions for the
   investment bank Dean Witter Reynolds, leaving as Managing Director of
   Corporate Finance.

   FEATHER O. HOUSTOUN
   Mrs. Houstoun is Secretary of Public Welfare, Commonwealth of
   Pennsylvania. She has served in numerous executive positions in federal
   and state government, including Chief Financial Officer for the
   Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Treasurer for the
   State of New Jersey, Executive Director of New Jersey's Housing and
   Mortgage Finance Agency, and Acting Deputy for Policy Development for
   the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

   WILLIAM H. HUDNUT III
   Mr. Hudnut is a Senior Resident Fellow at the Urban Land Institute.
   Best known for his 16-year tenure as Mayor of Indianapolis, from 1976
   to 1991, Mr. Hudnut developed a national reputation for revitalizing
   his city, forming public-private partnerships, and promoting the
   potential of not-for-profit agencies. Prior to becoming Mayor, he
   served as Indiana's 11th District Congressional representative. Mr.
   Hudnut is the recipient of many awards, including Princeton
   University's highest alumni honor, the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public
   Service. Additionally, he is an ordained minister of the Presbyterian
   Church.

   H. LEWIS KELLOM
   Mr. Kellom is Executive Director of Homes In Partnership, Inc. (HIP)
   and President of the National Rural Housing Coalition's Board of
   Directors. Mr. Kellom has served on a number of local Florida and
   regional boards, often as President, working to provide decent,
   affordable homes for low- and middle-income families in rural and urban
   areas. In July 1999, Mr. Kellom was one of six individuals awarded to
   the inaugural class of the Fannie Mae Foundation's James A. Johnson
   Community Fellows in recognition of his work.

   JOSEPH B. LYNCH
   Joseph B. Lynch Mr. Lynch is currently a Senior Vice President at
   Conifer Realty, LLC, a real estate company involved in the development,
   acquisition, and management of affordable housing communities. Prior to
   joining Conifer, Mr. Lynch was the Commissioner of the Division of
   Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR). He joined DHCR in April 1995 as
   the Deputy Commissioner for Community Development (was named First
   Deputy Commissioner in June 1995, Acting Commissioner in November 1996)
   and was appointed Commissioner by Governor Pataki in February 1999.
   From 1982 to 1995, Lynch served as the Area Manager of the U.S.
   Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Buffalo Office. From
   August 1989 to April 1990, he also served as the Acting Regional
   Administrator/Regional Housing Commissioner of HUD’s Region II Office
   located in New York City. From 1972 to 1982, Lynch was the President
   and Chief Executive Officer of the Audubon New Community in Amherst,
   N.Y., and also served as the Senior Officer for the New York State
   Urban Development Corporation in the Western New York area. From 1963
   to 1972, Lynch was the Director of Design and Construction for the
   State University Construction Fund. Lynch has been the recipient of
   many awards and honors throughout his professional career. Active in
   many community and professional activities, he was a board member of
   Council of State Community Development Agencies (COSCDA), the New York
   State Housing Finance Agency, the State of New York Mortgage Agency,
   the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation, and New York State
   Mortgage Loan and Enforcement Agency, and the Harlem Community
   Development Corporation. He served as a board member and Chairman of
   the National Affordable Housing Act Task Force and Partnership Advisory
   Committee, the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation, and the State of
   New York Housing Trust Fund Corporation. He serves on the New York and
   the Western and Central New York Advisory Boards of Fannie Mae. A
   registered architect, Lynch graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic
   Institute and served as an officer in the U.S. Navy.

   SAM R. MOSELEY
   Mr. Moseley served for eight years as the U.S. Department of Housing
   and Urban Development's Regional Administrator / Regional Housing
   Commissioner for the Southwestern United States. There, he administered
   residential mortgage funding, FHA multifamily housing finance, public
   housing, fair housing, and economic development activities. Mr. Moseley
   also served for a time as Regional Administrator / Regional Housing
   Commissioner for the states of New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and
   Puerto Rico. Mr. Moseley is now engaged in full-time practice of law in
   Marshall, Texas, with emphasis on real estate as well as business law
   and probate matters.

   DENNIS M. PENMAN
   Mr. Penman is Executive Vice President of M.J. Peterson Real Estate,
   LLC of Amherst, New York, and is responsible for new investment
   opportunities and coordinating financial aspects of construction and
   development projects. Over the past 25 years, Mr. Penman has been
   responsible for numerous federally assisted multifamily housing
   projects and HUD Section 8 family and elderly housing development. In
   addition, Mr. Penman was recently named Chair of the Advisory Board of
   Fannie Mae of Western and Central New York.

   ROBERT RECTOR
   Mr. Rector is a Senior Welfare and Family Issues Policy Analyst at The
   Heritage Foundation. He examines such issues as welfare reform,
   marriage and illegitimacy, tax reform, and poverty in America. He
   recently authored “America's Failed $5.4 Trillion War on Poverty,”
   which examines the welfare system. In addition to writing other books,
   Rector frequently appears on television and radio. He previously worked
   as a Legislative Assistant in the Virginia House of Delegates and as a
   Management Analyst at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

   DAVID STANLEY
   Mr. Stanley is a retired businessman who has been heavily involved in
   urban redevelopment for more than 30 years, including 10 years as Chair
   of the National Equity Fund (the nation's largest equity investor in
   affordable housing). Mr. Stanley is also a Director of the Local
   Initiatives Support Corporation and the Corporation for Supportive
   Housing. His business background includes 15 years as Chief Executive
   Officer of Payless Cashways, Inc., a leading building materials
   retailer.

   MHC Staff | Legislative Mandate | Mission Statement | Commissioners |
                          Task Forces | News Room
     Millennial Housing Commission, 800 N. Capitol St. NW, Suite 680,
                           Washington, DC 20002
   Tel: (202) 565-0060 | Fax: (202) 565-9544 | webmaster email address:
                             webmaster@mhc.gov
