http://www.avapcd.ca.gov/cleancities.pdf

   ANTELOPE VALLEY CLEAN CITIES COALITION PROGRAM PLAN 2001-2005 (formerly
   the Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition) Developed by: The Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition with contractor support from Thomason &
   Associates, Inc. 3802 Ruskin Street Las Vegas, Nevada 89147 (702)
   254-4180 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition December 27, 2000 TABLE
   OF CONTENTS What is Clean Cities and Why Is It Important to the
   Antelope Valley?......................................1 Why is the U.S.
   Department of Energy Involved?
   ...................................................................1
   How Does Clean Cities
   Work?..................................................................
   ............................1 Why Should the Antelope Valley Continue
   to Be One of the Clean Cities?..............................2 Local
   Background.............................................................
   ..............................................................4 Area
   Description/Coalition
   Snapshot...............................................................
   .......................4 Clean Air Act Amendments and Energy Policy
   Act.................................................................7
   Local and State Laws and
   Incentives.............................................................
   .........................8 Grants and
   Funding................................................................
   ................................................9 Current AFV and
   Infrastructure
   Situation..............................................................
   ..................9 Goals, Objectives, Timelines and
   Monitoring.............................................................
   ................18 Organizational Structure and Contact
   Information............................................................
   .........25 Clean Cities Coalition Home
   Base...................................................................
   .....................25 Organizational
   Structure..............................................................
   .........................................25 Antelope Valley Clean
   Cities Coalition Signed Memorandum of
   Understanding..........................................................
   ......................27 Official Members (Contact
   List)..................................................................
   .........................42 Stakeholder Roster (Contact
   List)..................................................................
   ......................45 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition WHAT IS
   CLEAN CITIES AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT 1 TO THE ANTELOPE VALLEY? Today,
   more than half of the oil used for transportation in the United States
   is imported. Every year, we increase our dependence on imported
   oilwhich increases the trade deficit, costs us jobs and undermines our
   national security. In addition, vehicle emissions are the single
   largest contributor to air pollution in many communitiesincluding The
   Antelope Valleymaking our air unhealthy to breathe and increasing our
   health care costs. To help address those problems, Congress passed the
   Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct). EPAct included a goal of reducing
   America's dependence on foreign oil by 30 percent by 2010. One of the
   resulting programs to help achieve that goal was the establishment of
   the Clean Cities Program. Clean Cities is a locally-based, voluntary
   government/industry partnership coordinated by the U.S. Department of
   Energy (DOE) to expand the use of alternatives to gasoline and diesel
   fuel. The current list of alternative fuels under EPAct includes
   electricity, ethanol, methanol, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas
   (propane), and biodiesel. Why is DOE Involved? DOE is committed to
   energy use in America's transportation sector that is more efficient,
   less dependent on foreign sources, environmentally-friendly,
   sustainable and safe. DOE's Clean Cities program is designed as an
   umbrella to structure the approach used to achieve the objectives
   established by both EPAct and the Clean Air Act Amendments. The
   structure and format of the Clean Cities Program provide a forum for
   local coalitions to network nationwide. How Does Clean Cities Work?
   Clean Cities is founded on the principle that our nation's objectives
   are best accomplished by motivated individuals working together to
   reach a common goal. That's why Clean Cities is voluntary and
   encourages teamwork. Although the program is voluntary, communities
   like the Antelope Valley that wish to become an official member of the
   Clean Cities network must meet certain requirements. These requirements
   provide a format that ties the activities of the many local coalitions
   into a cohesive national program with the ability to achieve national
   goals. By combining local decision-making with the voluntary action of
   partners, the "grass-roots" approach of Clean Cities departs from
   traditional "top-down" federal programs. It creates effective programs
   carried out at the local levelthe building blocks of DOE's goal to
   create a sustainable nationwide alternative fuels market. Building on
   local initiative, Clean Cities serves to focus and coordinate the
   activities of both public and private sector proponents of alternative
   fuel vehicles (AFVs) by providing them with a forum to discover
   commonalities, collaborate on public policy, investigate opportunities
   for Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition joint projects, avoid
   unnecessary conflicts, leverage scarce resources and cooperate on
   promoting the benefits of AFVs in their communities. As the Clean
   Cities program has matured and expanded, the program has become "local
   market places" where people can gather to learn what's required, what's
   available, how to purchase an AFV, and where to fuel itin other words,
   all the transactions necessary for a market to develop. In the
   program's first five years, more than 80 communities have become "Clean
   Cities," enabling the deployment of more than 240,000 AFVs in both
   public and private fleets and helping build more than 4,000 alternative
   fueling stations. These vehicles will have reduced oil use by an
   estimated 100 million gallons per year and emissions by an estimated
   40,000 metric tons through 2005. While Clean Cities provides
   communities with tools, such as training, publications, a national
   program web site and networking opportunities, the overall success of
   the Clean Cities Program lies with the local coalition. Like the
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition, each local coalition is
   responsible for building its own group of stakeholders, holding
   meetings, identifying a coordinator, determining goals and developing
   and implementing an action plan to achieve those goals. Why Should The
   Antelope Valley Continue to Be One of the Clean Cities? The Antelope
   Valley, with its steady growth, is part of the ever-expanding increase
   in the use of imported oil and the increased air pollution associated
   with vehicles. Vehicle emissions are the single largest contributor to
   air pollution in the Antelope Valleymaking the air unhealthy to breathe
   and increasing local health care costs. The national and local problems
   associated with using imported oil for transportation can be addressed
   by expanding the use of alternative fuels in local communities like the
   Antelope Valley. By participating in a national network designed to
   develop long-term, sustainable markets for alternative fuels and
   vehicles, members of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition will
   obtain several benefits, including: * Help improve air quality By
   purchasing and operating AFVs, members of the Antelope Valley Clean
   Cities Coalition will help achieve the Air Pollution Control District's
   air quality goals, reducing ozone-causing pollution as well as carbon
   monoxide and particulate matter. This will help ensure quality of life
   and protect the continued growth projected for the Antelope Valley. As
   momentum among AFV users increases, emissions reductions also will
   increase and the entire community will benefit. * Cooperatively solve
   transportation problems By participating in Clean Cities, fleet
   operators can work together to discover and solve common problems,
   create economies of scale in purchases, leverage capital resources and
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 3 address common issues. Members
   of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition also can have a united,
   common voice with the state legislature and state and local regulatory
   agencies who monitor and revise public policy. * Facilitate alternative
   fuel vehicle availability and purchase Clean Cities stakeholders can
   work together to create local market demand for AFV products and
   communicate AFV needs to manufacturers so that the vehicles they need
   will be available. Clean Cities members also can work together to
   obtain the best prices, standardize contracts and purchasing, and other
   measures to assist them in the vehicle purchase process. * Expand
   fueling infrastructure Expanding AFV fueling infrastructure is one key
   to increasing the number of AFVs operating in the Antelope Valley area
   and making them more convenient to operate. By working in concert,
   Clean Cities stakeholders can help ensure that fueling stations are
   properly located and sized, provide adequate fueling pressures and are
   "customer friendly." Participating in Clean Cities also will help
   ensure that fueling is more cost-effective and convenient. * Create new
   jobs and commercial opportunities In each of the Clean Cities, the use
   of AFVs creates new jobs and business opportunities for vehicle
   dealers, vehicle service organizations, community colleges and
   technical schools, fuel retailers and others. This helps keep the
   economy of the Antelope Valley healthy and thriving. * Obtain special
   eligibility for DOE funding and grants As a member of the Clean Cities
   network, the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition is eligible to
   compete for funds under DOE's State Energy Program Special Projects
   grants. These funds can be utilized to help pay for vehicle purchases,
   fueling station upgrades or additions and other related projects. In
   addition, special consideration is given to Clean Cities in certain DOE
   and other federal grant programs on a regular basis. Therefore, by
   continuing to be a member of Clean Cities, the community will have
   access to potential funding to help fleet operators continue to
   purchase and fuel AFVs. Clean Cities has brought many benefits to the
   Antelope Valley and will continue to do so into the next millennium as
   long as the community remains a member of the Clean Cities network.
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 4 LOCAL BACKGROUND Area
   Description/Coalition Snapshot Antelope Valley...The Golden Corridor
   The Antelope Valley encompasses 1,300 square miles including Lancaster,
   Palmdale and portions of Los Angeles County, California. Located just
   55 miles north of the City of Los Angeles, the total population in the
   Antelope Valley is about 400,300 residents. With California's most
   affordable real estate, the amenities of a large metropolitan area and
   relaxed lifestyle, the Antelope Valley has attracted thousands of new
   residents in recent years and has become known as California's "golden
   corridor." Accelerated growth for the Antelope Valley is predicted to
   continue well into the 21st century. The Southern California
   Association of Governments estimates that the entire population of
   Southern California, not including the San Diego area, is predicted to
   grow by 6.5 million by the year 2020. Because much of the Los Angeles
   basin is already developed, newer populations are projected to migrate
   to various expansion areas, including the Antelope Valley, in very
   predictable patterns. Therefore, the Antelope Valley is projected to
   grow from its current population of 400,300 to 1.2 million by the year
   2020, with approximately 1/7th of the new Southern California growth
   migrating to the Antelope Valley. This means that the population
   potentially will quadruple in the next 20 years, which equates to four
   times the residents, four times the vehicles, four times the
   infrastructure and four times the housing in the area now. The growth
   prediction may sound unreasonable, but actually it is only a growth
   rate of 6.8% compounded annually, which has been the average growth
   rate for the Antelope Valley for the past several years. This rapid
   growth in the Antelope Valley is attributable to several factors,
   including extremely affordable Southern California land prices for
   industry, some of the most affordable homes in Southern California, a
   large, available work force at all skill levels, designations as both a
   Foreign Trade Zone and a California Enterprise Zone and a moderate,
   four-season climate. Aerospace is the largest industry in the Antelope
   Valley. AVTEL, Boeing North American, Lockheed Martin, Northrop
   Grumman, NASA and BAE are all located in the area. Other types of
   manufacturing are also thriving in the Antelope Valley. Senior Systems
   Technology (electrical components), Anderson Barrows (plumbing parts),
   Deluxe Financial Services (checks and financial documents), Rexhall
   Industries and Lance Campers (recreational vehicles) are examples.
   Between 35 and 40% of the Antelope Valley population commutes into Los
   Angeles to work each day. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 5
   However, the number of local jobs is increasing, with 53% of the local
   businesses hiring new workers during 1999. Growth, Coupled with
   Geography, Impacts Air Quality The Antelope Valley Air Pollution
   Control District (AVAPCD) is currently designated by the U.S.
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a severe non-attainment area
   for ozone (O3). A large portion of this pollution is created by
   "transport" effects from the South Coast Air Quality Management
   Districtin layman's terms, the wind patterns and the mountains
   surrounding the Antelope Valley cause Los Angeles ozone pollution to
   blow into the area and become somewhat trapped by the mountains. In
   addition, the Antelope Valley currently faces the challenges that many
   fast-growing areas confront, including the increased traffic associated
   with adding large numbers of new residents each month. Annual vehicle
   miles traveled in the Antelope Valley are on the rise, which
   consequently increases both traffic congestion and air pollution.
   Therefore, improving air quality will continue to be of great concern
   as the population increases significantly through the year 2020. The
   Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition Becoming a member of the Clean Cities
   program was a natural extension of the City of Lancaster's "Blue Sky
   Project," a synergistic program focused on a clean environment,
   improved transit and transportation facilities with emphasis on
   alternative fuel vehicles, attraction of new technology industries and
   the preservation of a quality community for its citizens. The Lancaster
   City Council endorsed the "Blue Sky Project in March 1994. Shortly
   thereafter in August of that same year, Lancaster submitted its Clean
   Cities program plan to U.S. Department of Energy. On September 22,
   1994, Lancaster, California was officially designated as the fifteenth
   member of the Clean Cities program. The thirteen original stakeholders
   included: Antelope Valley Schools Transportation Agency, the California
   Energy Commission, the California Environmental Protection Agency,
   CALSTART, the City of Lancaster, U.S. General Services Administration,
   Los Angeles County, Western Propane Gas Association, the South Coast
   Air Quality Management District, Southern California Association of
   Governments, Southern California Edison, Southern California Gas
   Company and the U.S. Department of Energy. According to the DOE Clean
   Cities web site, at the time of designation, the officially-reported
   number of alternative fueled vehicles (AFVs) was 357 "fuel
   unspecified." There also were 20 fueling sites reported in the
   Lancaster area. It is now known that those numbers were significantly
   overstated, and an accurate count from 1995 is not available. Brian
   Hawley, Community Development Director for the City of Lancaster,
   served as Coordinator Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 6 since
   1995. Due to staff reductions at the City of Lancaster, the momentum
   for the Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition waned during the 1997-1998
   time frame and the Coalition became unofficially "inactive." However,
   with the creation of the Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District
   in 1997, interest in alternative fuels soared and Clean Cities
   Coalition efforts were revived. (See "The AFV Market in the Antelope
   Valley" for further description of renewed and successful AFV efforts.)
   The primary alternative fuels of choice are natural gas, electricity
   and propane. There are currently 6 public fueling/charging stations, 7
   private charging stations 133 natural gas vehicles (NGVs), 15 electric
   vehicles, 10 propane vehicles and 32 flexible-fueled vehicles operating
   in the Antelope Valley. The Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition is Seeking
   Re-Designation as the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition In 1997,
   the Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District was created,
   declaring "independence" from the South Coast Air Quality Management
   District. It was formed after an Antelope Valley Board of Trade task
   force found that separating from the South Coast District would provide
   the best climate for industrial development and air quality benefits
   for the Antelope Valley. In September 1996, Governor Pete Wilson signed
   Assembly Bill 2666, introduced by then- Assemblyman, now state Senator,
   William J. "Pete" Knight. The bill removed the Antelope Valley from the
   jurisdiction of the South Coast Air Quality Management District and
   gave the Antelope Valley authority to create its own district effective
   July 1, 1997. The Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District now
   enters its fourth year, having successfully achieved a
   locally-controlled air quality district. The office is maintained in
   Lancaster and is staffed full time to meet the air quality regulation
   needs of the region. Since the Antelope Valley is now an independent
   air district, it is logical that the re-designated and revitalized
   Clean Cities Coalition also encompass the entire Antelope Valley
   region. This will allow more effective use of resources, including
   funding of AFV projects, infrastructure development and community
   outreach. AFV Advances Since 1994 Since 1994, the Lancaster Clean
   Cities Coalition added 15 stakeholders, including private industry. The
   additional members include Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control
   District, Antelope Valley Press, Applied LNG Technologies, Antelope
   Valley Transit Authority, City of Palmdale, Pinnacle CNG Systems, Delta
   Liquid Energy, Lockheed Martin, Greater Antelope Valley Economic
   Alliance, Pyramid Services, Rite Aid, Waste Management, Calandri Farms,
   United Parcel Service (UPS), and the Mojave Desert Air Quality
   Management District. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 7 Other
   original stakeholders have become inactive, including the California
   Environmental Protection Agency, Cal-START, Western Propane Gas
   Association, and the South Coast Air Quality Management District.
   Although it is certain that the number of AFVs has increased since
   1995, because of the inaccurate original vehicle inventory, it is not
   possible to calculate the exact number or percentage of increase.
   Currently, the number of AFVs operating in the Antelope Valley is 190,
   including 133 NGVs, 15 electric vehicles, 32 FFVs and XXX propane
   vehicles. There is one public-access natural gas fueling station, 12
   electric charging stations (5 public, 7 private) and roughly XXX
   public-access propane stations. Five additional natural gas fueling
   stations are planned for the 2001-2005 time frame. The AFV Market in
   the Antelope Valley is Thriving With the creation of the Antelope
   Valley Air Pollution Control District not quite four years ago, there
   has been significantly increased awareness about the benefits of AFVs,
   which has resulted in increased vehicle demand and funding for AFV
   projects. This is evidenced by the $1.5 million in grant monies issued
   through the AVAPCD for alternative fuel and vehicle projects since
   1999. Under these programs, applications have been approved for two
   public-access natural gas fueling stations, one natural gas dump truck
   and nine natural gas refuse haulers. These projects have been funded
   and currently are under development. There is steady public and private
   fleet demand for AFVs in the Antelope Valley, driven primarily by air
   quality concerns and the resulting the availability of incentives.
   Other market drivers include the threat of fleet rules requiring the
   use of alternative fuels and the potential for emissions reductions
   credits for the use of AFVs. The most preferred and available
   alternative fuel in the Antelope Valley is natural gas, which costs
   $1.14 per gasoline gallon equivalent (GGE) compared to gasoline at
   approximately $1.70 per gallon. Electricity is the second most
   preferred alternative fuel in the Antelope Valley. Currently,
   electricity costs approximately $.33 per GGE. It can be concluded that
   the major market obstacles for alternative fuels in the Antelope Valley
   have been lack of awareness on the part of fleet operators about the
   availability and benefits of using alternative fuels and lack of
   adequate, reliable fueling infrastructure. Clean Air Act Amendments
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 8 The Antelope Valley Air
   Pollution Control District falls under the requirements of the Clean
   Air Act Amendments due to its current designation by EPA as a severe
   ozone non-attainment area. Currently, there are no provisions in the
   State Implementation Plan or the local Air Quality Management Plan for
   alternative fuels. Energy Policy Act The Antelope Valley is not
   regulated by the requirements of the Energy Policy Act (EPAct). Local
   and State Laws and Incentives The Antelope Valley is covered by four
   major incentive laws passed in the State of California. These are
   described in detail below. Carl Moyer Program Former Governor Wilson
   and the legislature authorized $25,000,000 in Fiscal Year 1998-1999 to
   fund the Carl Moyer Program. The purpose of the program is to reduce
   emissions by providing grants for the incremental cost of cleaner
   heavy-duty vehicles and equipment such as on-road, off-road, marine,
   locomotive, stationary agricultural pump, forklift, and airport ground
   support engines. The grants are issued locally by air pollution control
   and air quality management districts that participate in the program.
   The California Air Resources Board (CARB) is responsible for developing
   program guidelines. The guidelines adopted by CARB establish the
   program requirements for districts that choose to administer a local
   program, and they also describe the project criteria for the on-road,
   off-road, marine and locomotive and other projects that can be funded.
   The three major program requirements are: 1) the district must provide
   $1 in matching funds for every $2 of Carl Moyer Program funding, 2) all
   projects approved for funding must follow the Carl Moyer Program
   Guidelines, principally to fund cleaner, heavy-duty vehicles and
   equipment; and 3) all projects funded must meet the cost-effectiveness
   criterion ($12,000/ton NOx reduced). In March 1999, the AVAPCD
   Governing Board authorized staff to submit an application to CARB for
   Carl Moyer funds. AVAPCD has been awarded $302,571 in Carl Moyer
   funding for Fiscal Year 1998-99. Contracts totaling the full allocation
   must be executed with project proponents by June 30, 2000, or the
   unobligated remainder is subject to reallocation to other air
   districts. All Carl Moyer Program funds from this cycle must be
   expended by June 15, 2001 or the remainder may be allocated to other
   air districts. AB 2766 Assembly Bill 2766 (Sher) authorized air
   pollution control districts and air quality management districts to
   impose a $1 to $4 motor vehicle registration fee to provide funds for
   air districts to meet new Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 9
   responsibilities mandated under the California Clean Air Act (CCAA). As
   enacted in the California Health & Safety Code (H & S Code), AB 2766
   states that the fees shall be used to support district operated
   planning, monitoring, enforcement and technical studies necessary to
   implement the CCAA. An additional allowable use is to support programs
   that reduce air pollution from motor vehicles. CARB guidelines suggest
   that at least 50 percent of the total funds in a region should be used
   for projects that directly reduce mobile source emissions. AVAPCD
   imposes a $4 per vehicle AB 2766 fee within its jurisdiction.
   Approximately $1,417,162 has been received through June 30, 1999. Using
   the CARB guidelines and designating 50% of AB 2766 receipts toward
   direct emission reducing programs, there will be approximately $371,000
   available to be distributed annually via a grant program such as the
   Mobile Source Reduction Program, subvention to local governments, or
   some combination of those approaches. Actual allocations will be
   subject to AVAPCD Governing Board approval. AB 2061 This newly-passed
   legislation provides for grants of up to $9,000 for the purchase or
   lease of a new zero-emission vehicle. Lower-Emission School Bus Program
   This program allocates $50 million for lower-emission school buses. The
   funds are expected to be split into $30 million for new buses which
   meet a specific NOx emission level and $20 million for retrofit
   particulate traps for diesel buses Grants and Funding Under the Mobile
   Source Emission Program described above, the Antelope Valley Air
   Pollution Control District allocates 50% of the receipts from AB 2766
   funds, which is a Department of Motor Vehicles surcharge. In late 1999,
   the District issued a Call for Projects with a total budget of
   $850,000. In early 2000, the District awarded funds to Waste Management
   of Antelope Valley and Pinnacle CNG Systems to install compressed
   natural gas fueling infrastructure in Palmdale and Lancaster,
   respectively. Waste Management has amended their proposal to provide
   both liquefied and compressed natural gas. Both stations will allow
   public access. A second round of AB 2766 funds was a direct allocation
   by the Governing Board to the two member cities (Lancaster and
   Palmdale) with a portion earmarked for the Coalition and a portion
   earmarked for the third round of Carl Moyer program funding match. The
   allocations will be determined annually. The first round of Carl Moyer
   program funding ($450,000) was awarded to Los Angeles County Public
   Works to purchase a new natural gas dump truck and to Waste Management
   of Antelope Valley to purchase nine new refuse haulers. Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition 10 The second round of Carl Moyer program
   funding ($225,000) was awarded in November 2000 , including a fleet
   request for the City of Lancaster and additional refuse haulers for
   Waste Management. A third round of Moyer funding is estimated to be as
   much as $600,000, which will be announced in 2001. The Antelope Valley
   Air Pollution Control District will receive a portion of the new $50
   million school bus funding, current estimated at roughly $300,000.
   Current AFV and Infrastructure Situation There are currently a total of
   190 AFVs operating in the Antelope Valley, including 133 NGVs, 15
   electric vehicles, 10 propane vehicles and 32 flexible-fueled vehicles.
   This information was gathered by requesting that stakeholders and other
   AFV operators submit a list of AFVs in their fleets, including Vehicle
   Identification Numbers (VIN) where possible. In addition, there are 15
   AFV fueling sites operating in the Antelope Valley. These include 12
   electric charging stations, two natural gas stations and one propane
   station. The following list represents the current publicly accessible
   propane refueling stations. (Insert list here.) Additional statistics
   are provided on the AFV and Alternative Refueling Site Charts listed on
   the following pages. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 11 Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition Stakeholder Commitment Chart Stakeholder
   Point of Contact Area of Commitment Specific Activities/Objectives &
   Estimated Timelines Organization Antelope Valley Air Bret Banks
   Coalition Commitment Serve on Steering Committee Pollution Control
   District Operations Manager Coordinator for the Antelope Valley Clean
   Cities Coalition (661) 723-8070 Provide the monthly meeting room for
   the AVCC Coalition meetings Funding Administer AVAPCD Grants Cynthia
   Ravenstein Coalition Commitment Serve on Infrastructure Committee
   Transportation & Small Business Coordinator (760) 245-1661 ext. 5706
   Antelope Valley Schools Kenneth R. McCoy Coalition Commitment Serve on
   Steering Committee Transportation Agency Chief Executive Officer
   Vehicles Purchase 6 additional CNG School Buses by 2005 (661) 945-3621
   Fueling Station Operate CNG fueling station Antelope Valley Transit
   Bill Budlong Coalition Commitment Serve on Vehicles Committee Authority
   Executive Director (661) 726-2616 ext. 603 City of Lancaster Richard
   Long Coalition Commitment Serve on Vehicles Committee Environmental
   Compliance Fueling Station Build one natural gas fueling station by
   2005 Officer Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 12 Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition Stakeholder Commitment Chart Stakeholder Point
   of Contact Area of Commitment Specific Activities/Objectives &
   Estimated Timelines Organization (661) 723-6093 Richard Collins
   Coalition Commitment Serve on Vehicles Committee Administrative
   Assistant (661) 732-6122 City of Palmdale Mike Dispenza Coalition
   Commitment Provide support and share the Antelope Valley Clean Cities
   Mayor Protem Coalition message during community activities and
   functions. (661) 947-3839 Sharon McCaughey Coalition Commitment Serve
   on the Infrastructure Committee Senior Planner Fueling Station Build
   natural gas fueling station by 2005 (661) 267-5294 County of Los
   Angeles John Adkins Vehicles Purchase 1 heavy duty AFV by 2005 Public
   Works Dept. Fleet Manager Dept. Public Works (626) 458-7315 Delta
   Liquid Energy Ben Freeman Coalition Commitment Serve on Outreach
   Committee District Sales Manager Serve on Vehicles Committee (661)
   940-3120 Serve on Infrastructure Committee Mike Loguidice Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition 13 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition
   Stakeholder Commitment Chart Stakeholder Point of Contact Area of
   Commitment Specific Activities/Objectives & Estimated Timelines
   Organization Regional Sales Manager Vehicles Purchase 2 additional AFVs
   by 2005 (661) 323-2700 Edwards Air Force Base Brooks Warren Vehicles
   Purchase an additional 38 AFVs by 2005 U.S. General Services
   Administration, Service Representative (661) 277-8563 Greater Antelope
   Valley Larry Grooms Coalition Commitment Serve on Outreach Committee
   Economic Alliance President & CEO (661) 945-2741 Lockheed Martin Pat
   Gavin Fueling Station Operate and maintain one LPG fueling station
   Human Resource Administrator (661) 572-47334 Mojave Desert Air Jean
   Bracy Coalition Commitment Serve on Steering Committee Quality
   Management Director of Administrative District Services (760) 245-1661
   ext. 6214 Violette Roberts Coalition Commitment Serve on Steering
   Committee Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 14 Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition Stakeholder Commitment Chart Stakeholder Point
   of Contact Area of Commitment Specific Activities/Objectives &
   Estimated Timelines Organization Public Information Officer Support the
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition by informing (760) 245-1661 ext.
   6104 the public through publishing press releases and by incorporating
   the AVCC Coalition message into MDAQMD community activities and
   functions. Pinnacle CNG Pat Oekerman Coalition Commitment Serve on
   Infrastructure Committee Technical Sales Fueling Stations Build one
   natural gas fueling station by 2005 (520) 360-1331 Southern California
   Alis Clausen Coalition Commitment Serve on Outreach Committee Edison
   Region Manager, Public Affairs Recharging Stations Maintain and operate
   12 recharging stations (661) 726-5615 Southern California Gas Steve
   Anthony Coalition Commitment Serve on Outreach Committee Co. Account
   Manager Serve on Infrastructure Committee (213) 244-3583 Vehicles
   Purchase 38 additional AFVs by 2005 State of California Dara Lee Dubois
   Coalition Commitment Provide support and information regarding the
   availability of Energy Specialist State grants (916) 654-4651 U.S.
   Department of Julia Oliver Advisory Serve as advisor to Steering
   Committee Energy Clean Cities Regional Program Manager Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition 15 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition
   Stakeholder Commitment Chart Stakeholder Point of Contact Area of
   Commitment Specific Activities/Objectives & Estimated Timelines
   Organization Manager (510) 637-1952 Waste Management Hugh A. Walker
   Fueling Station Build one natural gas fueling station by 2005 District
   Landfill Manager Vehicles Purchase 15 AFVs by 2005 (661) 223-3437
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 16 Antelope Valley Clean Cities
   Coalition AFV Market Summary Chart Company/Fleet Symbols Vehicle Number
   Symbols * = stakeholder fleet #B = Bi-Fuel Vehicles ¸= fleets covered
   by EPAct #M = Medium-Duty Vehicles #H - Heavy-Duty Vehicles Current AFV
   Numbers Projected AFV Numbers through 2005 Company /Fleet Total # CNG
   LNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel Total # CNG LNG LPG E-85 Electric
   Biodiesel AFVs M-85 AFVs M85 *¸ Antelope Valley 19 19 25 25 School
   Transportation Agency (AVSTA) *¸ City of Lancaster 10 10 10 10 *¸ City
   of Palmdale 6 1 5 6 1 5 County of Los Angeles 2 2 3 3 Public Works
   Dept. * Delta Liquid Energy 9 9 11 11 Devore Insulation 1 1 2 2 *
   Edwards Air Force 118 D- 6 30 156 D-6 50 Base B-82 B-100 Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition 17 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition
   AFV Market Summary Chart Company/Fleet Symbols Vehicle Number Symbols *
   = stakeholder fleet #B = Bi-Fuel Vehicles ¸= fleets covered by EPAct #M
   = Medium-Duty Vehicles #H - Heavy-Duty Vehicles Current AFV Numbers
   Projected AFV Numbers through 2005 Company /Fleet Total # CNG LNG LPG
   E-85 Electric Biodiesel Total # CNG LNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel
   AFVs M-85 AFVs M85 G N Performance 2 2 3 3 Plumbing Gilland Masonry 1 1
   1 1 Gillins & Associates 1 1 2 2 Lancaster School District 2 2 2 2
   Lockheed Martin 1 1 1 1 McKesson Water 5 5 10 10 Schwans Ice Cream 7 7
   12 12 *¸ Southern California 10 10 10 10 Edison * Southern California
   15 15 53 52 1 Gas Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 18 Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition AFV Market Summary Chart Company/Fleet
   Symbols Vehicle Number Symbols * = stakeholder fleet #B = Bi-Fuel
   Vehicles ¸= fleets covered by EPAct #M = Medium-Duty Vehicles #H -
   Heavy-Duty Vehicles Current AFV Numbers Projected AFV Numbers through
   2005 Company /Fleet Total # CNG LNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel Total #
   CNG LNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel AFVs M-85 AFVs M85 Gas * Waste
   Management 0 15 15 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 19 Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition Infrastructure Summary Chart * =
   stakeholder organization ¸= publicly accessible station Current
   Refueling/Recharging Sites Projected Refueling/Recharging Sites through
   2005 Company/Fleet CNG LNG/LCNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel CNG
   LNG/LCNG LPG E-85 Electric Biodiesel M-85 M-85 *¸ Antelope Valley
   School 1 1 Transportation Agency (AVSTA) * Air Force Plant 42 1 1 *¸
   City of Lancaster 1 *¸ City of Palmdale 1 * Delta Liquid Energy 1 *
   Lockheed Martin 1 1 *¸ Pinnacle 1 * Southern California Edison 12 12 *
   Waste Management 1 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 20 GOALS,
   OBJECTIVES, TIMELINES AND MONITORING Goal 1. Increase the Number of
   AFVs Operating in The Antelope Valley by 35% by 2005. Objective 1.1
   Provide incentives for public and private fleets to purchase AFVs.
   Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering To Be Completed
   By: Ongoing Objective 1.2 Identify and analyze targeted public and
   private fleets for optimal AFV use, focusing on medium and heavy-duty
   fleets; market AFVs to these fleets utilizing direct sales calls and
   materials developed in Objective 6.1. Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: Vehicles Outreach To Be Completed By: Analysis by 12/31/01
   Begin sales calls 03/31/02 Objective 1.3 Work with local vehicle
   dealers to improve service and support for AFVs. Committees and/or
   Stakeholders Responsible: Vehicles; Infrastructure To Be Completed By:
   12/31/02 Goal 2. Increase the Quantity of Alternative Fuel Used in
   Existing Vehicles. Objective 2.1 Develop and distribute model policies
   for individual stakeholders that will encourage the use of alternative
   fuel in bi-fuel vehicles. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Vehicles; Infrastructure To Be Completed By: 6/30/01 Objective 2.2 Work
   with fuel retailers to increase fueling pressure of existing fueling
   stations, ensuring 3,600 psig fueling available at each station.
   Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Infrastructure To Be
   Completed By: 6/30/02 Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 21
   Objective 2.3 Identify AFVs that are not currently being used; assist
   stakeholders to develop plans to get them in use. Committees and/or
   Stakeholders Responsible: Vehicles To be Completed By: 9/30/01
   Objective 2.4 Develop Clean Cities Awards for fleets that increase use
   of alternative fuel and/or companies that exceed goals. Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Vehicles; Infrastructure; Outreach To
   Be Completed By: 12/31/03 Objective 2.5 Disseminate information to
   stakeholders and others about HOV lane access for AFVs. Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 9/30/01
   Goal 3. Increase the Number of Natural Gas Fueling Stations to 5 by
   2005. Objective 3.1 Use AB 2766 funds to assist in construction of
   Pinnacle and Waste Management natural gas stations by June 30, 2001.
   Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering; Infrastructure To
   Be Completed By: 6/30/01 Objective 3.2 Obtain funding for and build one
   additional public natural gas station in Palmdale and one in Lancaster
   by 12/31/03. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering;
   Infrastructure To Be Completed By: 12/31/03 Objective 3.3 Obtain
   funding for and build one additional natural gas station at Air Force
   Plant 42 by 12/31/04. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Steering; Infrastructure To Be Completed By: 12/31/04 Antelope Valley
   Clean Cities Coalition 22 Objective 3.4 Obtain funding to purchase
   FuelMaker units to loan to "new" NGV fleets to help increase demand for
   public fueling. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering;
   Infrastructure To Be Completed By: 12/31/01 Objective 3.5 Work with
   Gladstein & Associates to complete the process of making the Antelope
   Valley part of the Interstate Clean Transportation Corridor project.
   Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering; Infrastructure To
   Be Completed By: 3/31/01 Objective 3.6 Develop card reader that will
   read any type credit card. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Infrastructure To Be Completed By: 12/31/01 Goal 4. Increase the Number
   of Clean Cities Coalition Stakeholders to 60 by 2005, obtaining 30% of
   membership from private fleets. Objective 4.1 Develop and implement a
   marketing plan for key fleets to interest them in using alternative
   fuels as well as becoming a member of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities
   Coalition. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be
   Completed By: 12/30/01 Objective 4.2 Kick off Clean Cities
   re-designation with an informational event/membership drive. Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach (with support from all other
   committees) To Be Completed By: 6/30/01 Objective 4.3 Develop effective
   Clean Cities marketing message and appeal for key community Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition 23 groups including the Antelope Valley
   Board of Trade, Chambers of Commerce and others; meet with key members
   of each association and enlist their membership and support. Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach (with support from all other
   committees) To Be Completed By: 6/30/01 Objective 4.4 Structure the
   Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District grant applications to
   include bonus points if applicant is a member of the Clean Cities
   Coalition. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Steering To Be
   Completed By: 3/30/01 Goal 5. Participate with Other AFV Organizations
   to Support Legislative Agendas and Issues that Support AFVs. Objective
   5.1 Work with the California NGV Coalition and other organizations to
   educate state legislators regarding the benefits natural gas, propane
   and electric vehicles. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Steering; Outreach To Be Completed By: Ongoing Objective 5.2 Enlist the
   support of lobbyists working for local entities for alternative fuels
   legislation, if available. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Steering (with support from all other committees) To Be Completed By:
   Ongoing Goal 6. Educate government officials, private fleet operators
   and other appropriate audiences about the benefits of Clean Cities and
   alternative fuels. Objective 6.1 Develop a clear message about the
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition, its mission, goals, objectives
   and members. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 24 Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 6/30/01
   Objective 6.2 Incorporate the "message" in 6.1 into a brochure, an
   electronic web message and a speakers' presentation; link web site with
   other appropriate sites. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Outreach To Be Completed By: 9/30/01 Antelope Valley Clean Cities
   Coalition 25 Objective 6.3 Distribute the materials developed in 6.2 to
   each stakeholder, who in turn, will make presentations to management
   within their own organizations. Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 12/30/01 Objective 6.4 Hold a
   public re-designation ceremony with appropriate public relations and
   media attention. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach
   (with support of all other committees) To Be Completed By: 6/30/01
   Objective 6.5 Draft and distribute articles and news releases on the
   benefits of alternative fuels and Clean Cities for employee newsletters
   and other publications. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Outreach To Be Completed By: Ongoing Objective 6.6 Create speakers'
   bureau to include stakeholders who will make presentations at meetings
   of entities such as the Antelope Valley Board of Trade, the Antelope
   Valley Air Pollution Control District about the Antelope Valley Clean
   Cities Coalition and alternative fuels. Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 9/30/01 Objective 6.7 Provide
   outreach to public schools with educational materials and other
   resources. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be
   Completed By: 12/30/01 Objective 6.8 Incorporate Clean Cities into the
   AVAPCD's participation in public events such as Palmdale Fall Festival,
   Antelope Valley Board of Trade Outlook Conference, Lancaster Poppy
   Festival, Earth Fair, Transportation Days at various malls, school
   career days, etc. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 26 Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: Ongoing
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 27 Objective 6.9 Develop and
   distribute informational brochure to stakeholders and others about the
   benefits of using alternative fuels, how and where to fuel, etc.
   Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed
   By: 3/30/02 Objective 6.10 Create standing column in AVAPCD newsletter,
   "Airwaves," and add all Coalition members to mail list. Committees
   and/or Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 3/30/01
   Objective 6.11 Create membership packet for potential stakeholders
   using national and local Clean Cities materials. Committees and/or
   Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach To Be Completed By: 6/30/01
   Objective 6.12 Organize and implement annual Clean Cities Advancing the
   Choice events to educate fleet operators/managers. Committees and/or
   Stakeholders Responsible: Outreach (with support from all other
   committees) To Be Completed By: Annually Objective 6.13 Solicit local
   government agencies to incorporate support for Clean Cities in their
   project environmental determinations. Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: All To Be Completed By: Ongoing Goal 7. Make Application
   For and Receive Adequate Funding for Clean Cities Activities. Objective
   7.1 Ensure continued commitment from the Antelope Valley Air Pollution
   Control District Governing Board for funding for AFV projects. Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition 28 Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: Steering To Be Completed By: Ongoing Objective 7.2 Develop
   annual operating budget for Coalition. Committees and/or Stakeholders
   Responsible: Steering To Be Completed By: Ongoing Objective 7.3
   Identify and apply for grants/funding opportunities for ongoing
   Coalition administration. Committees and/or Stakeholders Responsible:
   Steering To Be Completed By: Ongoing Objective 7.4 Identify and apply
   for grants/funding opportunities for vehicle incentives, fueling
   infrastructure additions and other capital projects. Committees and/or
   Stakeholders Responsible: Steering To Be Completed By: Ongoing
   Monitoring and Reporting The Steering Committee will meet quarterly to
   discuss progress towards implementing the plan. Each chairman will
   provide a brief written and verbal report of his/her committee's
   progress to the Steering Committee on a quarterly basis. An Annual
   Report will be made both to the Steering Committee and to DOE. Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition 29 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND CONTACT
   INFORMATION Clean Cities Coalition Home Base The home base for the
   Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition resides with its coordinator,
   Bret Banks. Specific information is: Bret Banks, Operations Manager
   Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District 43301 Division St. #206
   Lancaster, CA 93539 (661) 723-8070 FAX (661) 723-3450 Organizational
   Structure The Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition has the following
   organizational structure. Steering Committee Outreach Vehicles
   Committee Infrastructure Committee Committee Antelope Valley Clean
   Cities Coalition 30 Steering Committee The Steering Committee is
   composed of the DOE Regional Clean Cities Program Manager, the
   Coordinator and the chairs and vice chairs of each committee. The
   Steering Committee will elect its own chair whose term will be one
   year. This committee will serve as fund raising and ad hoc legislative
   committee. Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition 31 Outreach Committee
   Chairman (to be elected at the January 2001 meeting) Vice Chairman (to
   be elected at the January 2001 meeting) Larry Grooms, Greater Antelope
   Valley Economic Alliance Ben Freeman, Delta Liquid Energy Alis Clausen,
   Southern California Edison Steve Anthony, Southern California Gas
   Violette Roberts, Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District
   Shirley Marchant, Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District
   Vehicles Committee Chairman (to be elected at the January 2001 meeting)
   Vice Chairman (to be elected at the January 2001 meeting) Bill Budlong,
   Antelope Valley Transit Authority Richard Collins, City of Lancaster
   Richard Long, City of Lancaster Ben Freeman, Delta Liquid Energy
   Infrastructure Committee Chairman (to be elected at the January 2001
   meeting) Vice Chairman (to be elected at the January 2001 meeting) Pat
   Oekerman, Pinnacle CNG Steve Anthony, Southern California Gas Sharon
   McCaughey, City of Palmdale Cynthia Ravenstein, Antelope Valley Air
   Pollution Control District Ben Freeman, Delta Liquid Energy Antelope
   Valley Clean Cities Coalition
