http://www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov/annualreport.htm


   [MINNESOTA_SEAL.gif]

                                                  HONOLULU-PACIFIC

                                               FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD

                                                FY2001 ANNUAL REPORT

                                 [rain.gif]

                                 Executive Summary

   The Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board (HPFEB) serves 76 agencies
   employing more than 70,000 civilian and military federal employees on
   the islands of Oahu, Maui, Kauai, Hawaii and agency offices located
   overseas in Guam, Saipan, Japan, Okinawa, Korea and Singapore.

   FY2001 was a year of transition, restructuring and revitalization for
   the HPFEB. Mr. Chris Jay retired on 30 March after 38 years of federal
   service. He had been the Executive Director of the Honolulu-Pacific
   Federal Executive Board since 1989. Recruitment and hiring of Ms. L.A.
   Burke was completed on 18 June 2001. In the interim, Ms. Gerry Reese,
   Executive Assistant, single-handedly carried on administering a
   multitude of programs and initiatives for the HPFEB.

   The HPFEB was guided during this time by the Policy Committee Chair,
   Mr. Nat Aycox, Port Director, U.S. Customs Service, who ensured that
   the HPFEB continued to focus on coordinating and communicating
   governmental policy matters affecting the local federal community,
   providing leadership in sharing services between agencies and
   participating in local civic affairs.

   Below are a few highlights of the many accomplishments achieved during
   FY2001:

    1. HPFEB sponsored free or low-cost training courses, briefings and
       educational events that reached over 1,000 employees at a cost
       avoidance savings in travel and tuition of $177,400. The HPFEB
       councils and committees partnered on many events, reducing
       administrative costs. Additional benefits were the development of
       interagency cooperation, communication and efficiency in serving
       the federal members. Of special note was the Alternative Dispute
       Resolution (ADR) Conference sponsored by the EEO Council. This
       successful conference drew over 120 local, mainland and overseas
       attendees. Hosting the event on island saved attendees
       approximately $1K in travel/per diem expenses and 50 percent in
       tuition costs per person. Due to Hawaii and the Pacific region
       uniqueness, Hawaii ADR conferences have in-depth experience in
       sharing information about establishing ADR programs dealing with
       cultural issues. Attendees from California stated it was more
       economical for them to attend this conference than the more
       expensive ones on the mainland.
    2. Developed a partnership with the State of Hawaii and Office of
       Personnel Management’s Western Management Development Center to
       include senior federal managers with State of Hawaii managers in a
       3-tier leadership competency program. Two federal managers were
       selected to participate at a cost saving of approximately $7,000.
       Attending this course on island eliminated substantial travel and
       per diem costs as well as allowing the federal attendees to network
       with their state counterparts. This unique partnership opportunity
       is a first of its kind between OPM, the state and the FEB.
    3. In the aftermath of 9/11, the Executive Director was invited to be
       a member of Governor Ben Cayetano’s "Hawaii Together" task force.
       The task force was specifically chartered by the Governor to
       address the "people" issues (food, shelter, health care, job
       assistance, child care, etc.) that affected thousands of laid off
       employees, due to the drastic downturn in tourism, after the
       September 11 tragedy. This unique group is made up of over 40
       businesses; nonprofit, educational, faith-based organizations;
       trusts; foundations; and state, city and federal sectors. The goals
       of this group include developing new ways of sharing resources for
       common needs, providing messages of hope to the community and
       influencing state and federal financial support through legislative
       changes. Successes to date include:

     * Influencing the Governor to directly provide $2 million in
       immediate support to Hawaii’s food bank, additional funding of $1.5
       million from other state government sources and $2.6 million from
       the private sector for other social support programs.
     * In addition, this group developed a guidebook of services available
       to link residents with those services. It was published as an
       insert in the local papers.
     * Lobbying for state extension of unemployment coverage by 13 weeks.

     The "Hawaii Together" task force is also working closely with
     Hawaii’s Representative Patsy Mink (who is the ranking Democrat on
     the Subcommittee on 21^st Century Competitiveness of the House’s
     Education and the Work Force Committee) to introduce several bills
     that would reauthorize and refine aspects of the 1996 welfare
     overhaul. Timely resolution of these issues would directly assist
     those who were affected by 9/11.

    4. The FEB office developed and sponsored a series on Homeland Defense
       for FEB members that included topics on building security, the
       FBI’s role, State Civil Defense, airport security, post traumatic
       stress disorder and its impact in the workplace, combating
       biological threats, anthrax and the DOD interagency Joint Rear Area
       Coordination effort. The feedback on these sessions has been
       overwhelmingly positive with requests for additional topics and
       speakers. To date we have held two sessions with over 170 attendees
       with more sessions planned throughout FY02.
    5. The Hawaii-Pacific Area Combined Federal Campaign raised an
       all-time high of over $5,215,000. Of 66 participating agencies, 49
       agencies saw increases in their pledge contributions. The average
       gift donation increased from $125 to $138 per person. In addition
       to providing oversight coordination, policy guidance and
       assistance, the FEB received and reviewed 125 applications from
       charitable agencies and federations. The FEB staff provided 8
       briefings to over 100 potential charitable organizations, assisting
       them with the application process for inclusion in the CFC. 2001
       also saw the inclusion of the first charitable organization from
       Guam. The FEB staff was an integral organizer of the CFC kickoff
       event held at the Federal Building with over 60 charity exhibitors
       and several hundred employees attending. The FEB also assisted in
       the production of local public service announcements for television
       that were prominently shown throughout November.

   In summary, FY2001 brought many changes and opportunities for the HPFEB
   to continue serving their federal agencies. With a new, enthusiastic
   Executive Director and a supportive Policy Committee, FY2002 will see
   an even greater increase in effectiveness and value to the American
   public.


                            FY2001 Annual Report

   The Honolulu-Pacific Federal Executive Board serves 76 agencies
   employing more than 70,000 civilian and military federal employees
   located on the islands of Oahu, Maui, Kauai, Hawaii and overseas in
   Guam, Saipan, Japan, Okinawa, Korea and Singapore.

   Federal Executive Board Staff
   :

   Executive Director(s):   Mr. Christopher W.K. Jay - October 2000 to
   March 30, 2001
                                               Ms. L.A. Burke - June 18 to
   present

   Executive Assistant: Ms. Gerry Reese

   Communicate
   :
     * Published, posted and distributed monthly event calendars.
       Published membership directory, activity reports and initiated the
       HPFEB quarterly News Bite newsletter. All information is sent
       electronically to members and posted on the HPFEB web page for
       convenient accessibility for all federal employees. Additionally,
       an upgrade to the FEB office fax machine allowed us to instantly
       send broadcast messages at the touch of one button to over 200 FEB
       members, alternates, councils/committees and emergency contact
       members.

     * Re-designed and updated the HPFEB web page to include council and
       committee meeting minutes; photographs of FEB events; training
       opportunities; job announcements; career information; links to
       state, city and county and federal government web sites; and
       emergency information. The number of visitors has since gone from
       mere dozens to hundreds a month proving it to be a valuable and
       timely source of information.

     * The new Executive Director, Ms. L.A. Burke, made 26 courtesy calls
       to welcome new FEB members and meet current members. It was an
       excellent opportunity to educate members on current FEB initiatives
       and to encourage their contribution and participation in FEB events
       and programs.

     * Executive Director provided briefings to the supervisory teams of
       FAA, SSA and FEMA contingency planners on the purpose and
       initiatives of the HPFEB.

     * Partnered with the Hawaii OPM office on the distribution of various
       policy guidance and information memos from Washington, D.C.
       concerning September 11 events. This reduced duplication of effort
       and streamlined agency internal communication. All information
       regarding September 11 was posted on the HPFEB web page.

     * In celebration of Public Service Recognition Week, the FEB hosted
       the 45^th annual awards luncheon for over 900 attendees on June 26,
       2001. One hundred and ten outstanding civilian and military
       personnel and organizational teams were recognized. The culmination
       was the announcement of the winners in the eight competitive
       categories. Four private citizens also received awards for their
       outstanding contributions to the Federal Government.

     * The HPFEB held five Policy Committee meetings with the majority of
       the meetings occurring in July, August and September. The Executive
       Director guided the Policy Committee in developing a strategic work
       plan that provides direction and initiatives into FY02.

     * The HPFEB was actively supportive in the settlement of the
       eight-year class action suit for white-collar, civilian workers in
       Hawaii, Alaska and Guam for a differential in Cost-of-Living
       Allowances (COLA). Over 25,000 former and current federal workers
       in Hawaii alone are in the process of receiving up to $80 million
       in settlement money. The HPFEB acted as a central source of
       information for employees providing up-to-date information on our
       HPFEB web page, assisting many with resolving claims issues and
       providing guidance to agencies on the claim process.

     * The HPFEB supported the long-term issue of the inequity in
       retirement pay between our CONUS counterparts and OCONUS federal
       members. General Schedule (GS) federal employees in Hawaii, Guam
       and Alaska receive a Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA). However,
       these federal employees do not receive locality-based comparability
       pay. Whereas COLA is based on the cost of living in such geographic
       areas, locality pay is based on the cost of salaries in each area.
       As a result of not receiving locality pay, these federal employees
       now lag their CONUS counterparts in basic pay by over 10 percent.
       As a consequence, employees who retire in Hawaii, Guam or Alaska
       have a serious annuity gap. The HPFEB wrote numerous letters to
       Hawaii’s congressional staff to support the COLA/locality
       retirement proposal that would resolve the retirement inequity. The
       FEB hosted several special meetings with local experts for our
       members and researched and provided current information on the
       status of this initiative to our Alaska Federal Executive
       Associations (FEA) in Juneau, Ketchikan and Anchorage. Status is
       reported to our members, the Alaska FEA’s and posted on our web
       page.

   Reduce Costs and Improve Efficiency
   :
     * Executive Director researched the effectiveness of the various
       HPFEB councils and committees to determined their effectiveness and
       efficiency in providing service to the federal work force. The
       resulting report provided specific recommendations for the Policy
       Committee’s consideration. As a result, three councils/committees
       were disestablished and others were combined to provide clearer
       direction and economies of partnering with each other. The revamped
       councils/committees were revitalized in their efforts to provide
       effective, efficient and quality services and benefits to the work
       force.

     * Sponsored and coordinated a variety of training courses for over
       1,000 attendees throughout the year at a cost avoidance saving in
       travel and tuition of $177,400. These figures include courses and
       briefings sponsored by the various HPFEB councils and committees.
       Of special note was the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
       Conference sponsored by the EEO Council. This successful conference
       drew over 120 local, mainland and overseas attendees. Hosting this
       event on island saved attendees approximately $1K in travel/per
       diem expenses and 50 percent in tuition costs per person. Due to
       Hawaii and the Pacific region uniqueness, Hawaii ADR conferences
       have in-depth experience in sharing information about establishing
       ADR programs dealing with cultural issues. Attendees from
       California stated it was more economical for them to attend this
       conference than the more expensive ones on the mainland.

     * Organized the 2001 Savings Bond drive/kickoff and training held
       during May 2001. Over 76 project officers, agency heads and
       commanding officers attended. Brigadier General Castro, Commander
       and Division Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was the Area
       Savings Bond chair and spearheaded the effort which resulted in an
       8 percent increase in Hawaii federal participation.

     * Developed a partnership with the State of Hawaii and Office of
       Personnel Management’s Western Management Development Center to
       include senior federal managers with State of Hawaii managers in a
       3-tier leadership competency program. Two federal managers were
       selected to participate at a cost savings of approximately $7,000.
       Attending this course on island eliminated substantial travel and
       per diem costs as well as allowing the federal attendees to network
       with their state counterparts. This unique partnership opportunity
       is a first of its kind between OPM, the state and the FEB.

     * Posted numerous local vacancy announcements on the HPFEB web page
       and distributed electronically at the request of various FEB
       members. This method quickly highlighted specific job opportunities
       for employees and provided a wider applicant pool for the agencies.

     * Along with the HPFEB, four federal agencies donated 536 pieces of
       computer equipment in support of the Computers to Schools
       initiative. The approximate value of equipment transferred is over
       $205,840.

   Facilitate Service Delivery:
     * Supported the Hawaii Blue Pages project to ensure accurate
       government telephone listings. Note: In spite of our efforts, one
       agency they forgot to list was the Honolulu-Pacific Federal
       Executive Board.

   Partner with Community Groups
   :
     * In response to the events of 9/11, the resulting tourism decline,
       and dramatic increase of unemployment in Hawaii, the HPFEB, in
       partnership with the Prince Kuhio Federal Building’s GSA staff,
       collected over 1,153 pounds of food for the local food bank to
       benefit the increasing number of employees who were laid off due to
       the drastic downturn in tourism in Hawaii as a result of 9/11. In
       addition, 93 federal agencies and associations independently
       collected over 44,121 pounds of food and donated $81,233 in cash
       throughout the year.

     * In the aftermath of 9/11, the Executive Director was invited to be
       a member of Governor Ben Cayetano’s "Hawaii Together" task force.
       The task force was specifically chartered by the Governor to
       address the "people" issues (food, shelter, health care, job
       assistance, child care, etc.) that affected thousands of laid off
       employees after the September 11 tragedy. This unique group is made
       up of over 40 businesses; nonprofit, educational, faith-based
       organizations; trusts; foundations; and state, city and federal
       sectors. The goals of this group include developing new ways of
       sharing resources for common needs, providing messages of hope to
       the community and influencing state and federal financial support
       through legislative changes. Successes to date include:

     * Influencing the Governor to directly provide $2 million in
       immediate support, additional funding of $1.5 million from other
       state government sources and $2.6 million from the private sector.
     * In addition, this group developed a guidebook of services available
       to link residents with those services. It was published as an
       insert in the local papers.
     * Lobbying for state extension of unemployment coverage by 13 weeks.

     The "Hawaii Together" task force is also working closely with
     Hawaii’s Representative Patsy Mink (who is the ranking Democrat on
     the Subcommittee on 21^st Century Competitiveness of the House’s
     Education and the Work Force Committee) to introduce several bills
     that would reauthorize and refine aspects of the 1996 welfare
     overhaul. Timely resolution of these issues would directly assist
     those who were affected by 9/11.

     * The Executive Director developed and facilitated a one-day offsite
       for the State Office of Veterans’ Affairs Advisory Board at the
       special request of the director of the State VA office. As a result
       of her facilitation and management consulting skills, the Advisory
       Board developed their first-ever comprehensive action plan. This
       plan has already enabled the Advisory Board to lobby successfully
       for legislative improvements for Hawaii veterans and the
       development of a new veterans training, counseling and conference
       center.

     * The Hawaii-Pacific Area Combined Federal Campaign raised an
       all-time high of over $5,215,000. Of 66 participating agencies, 49
       agencies saw increases in their pledge contributions. The average
       gift donation increased from $125 to $138 per person. In addition
       to providing oversight coordination, policy guidance and
       assistance, the FEB received and reviewed 125 applications from
       charitable agencies and federations. The FEB staff provided 8
       briefings to over 100 potential charitable organizations, assisting
       them with the application process for inclusion in the CFC. 2001
       also saw the inclusion of the first charitable organization from
       Guam. The FEB staff was an integral organizer of the CFC kickoff
       event held at the Federal Building with over 60 charity exhibitors
       and several hundred employees attending. The FEB also assisted in
       the production of local public service announcements for television
       that were prominently shown throughout November.

     * Many agencies located in the Federal Building organized a variety
       of fundraisers specifically for the victims of 9/11. Holding bake
       sales, auctions and rummage sales, agencies raised approximately
       $2,000. The Federal Building GSA office in partnership with the
       Federal Credit Union also raised approximately $7,500 for the
       American Red Cross Relief Fund.

   Coordinate Emergency Services
   :
     * On September 11 at 5:30 a.m., the Executive Director was notified
       by the Federal Building emergency designated officer, RADM Utley,
       14^th Coast Guard Commander, to activate the emergency response and
       dismissal plan for the Federal Building only. The Executive
       Director notified the local radio and television stations to
       broadcast the message. The FEB telephone messages also reflected
       this emergency state. The Executive Director spent the day at the
       Coast Guard’s emergency command post monitoring the situation and
       fielding calls from agency heads, employees and the media. Due to
       the time difference, the Hawaii Federal Building was one of the few
       GSA buildings to completely close before the workday began. Upon
       approval of reopening the building for business the next day, the
       Executive Director personally called each agency head.

     * Post 9/11 activities included numerous follow-up meetings with the
       HPFEB Policy Committee, GSA and the State Civil Defense to discuss
       lessons learned. Results included a complete revision of the HPFEB
       Emergency Dismissal Plan and complete testing and upgrade of the
       automated emergency notification system located at State Civil
       Defense. The HPFEB developed emergency telephone cards for Policy
       Committee members and an internal FEB standard operating procedure
       checklist. The Oahu federal operating status was also included on
       the HPFEB web page.

     * The Executive Director became a member of the Hawaii Emergency
       Preparedness Executive and Planning Committee organized by State
       Civil Defense. State, city, county, federal agencies and travel
       industry representatives provided input for Hawaii’s Critical
       Infrastructure Protection Program, threat assessments,
       communication and planning required to protect and respond to
       future homeland defense issues.

     * The Executive Director also called and led a series of meetings for
       all island federal human resource officers to discuss various 9/11
       issues. Discussions included emergency notification, identification
       of emergency personnel, clarification of the FEB’s role, personnel
       issues as a result of 9/11, traffic issues between the Navy and Air
       Force, information flow and new security requirements.

     * The FEB office developed and sponsored a series on Homeland Defense
       for FEB members that included topics on building security, the
       FBI’s role, State Civil Defense, airport security, post traumatic
       stress disorder and its impact in the workplace, combating
       biological threats, anthrax and the DOD interagency Joint Rear Area
       Coordination effort. To date we have held two sessions with over
       170 attendees with more sessions planned throughout FY02.

     * Note: Although officially not part of the FY01 report, in response
       to the increased stress in the workplace as a result of 9/11, the
       HPFEB is partnering with Hawaii Medical Services Association (HMSA)
       to sponsor a no-cost, five-part Stress Masters seminar open to all
       federal workers in the Federal Building and downtown area. The
       first session will be held in March 2002.


            Annual Report/Calendar/COLA Settlement/Committees &
   Councils/Constitution/Directory of FEBs/Emergency Dismissal Plan/EEO
   Council/FEB Mission/FSCH/FWC/Hawaii-Pacific Area CFC/Home/Interesting
      Articles/Links/Meeting Minutes/Membership/News Bite/Officers &
                 Staff/Photographs/Training Opportunities
