http://www.grc.nasa.gov/Doc/news.htm

   [news.jpg]
   Navigational Menu

                                  What's News?

   News, mission and event information from the Community and Media
   Relations Office.

   [new.gif] NASA Administrator O'Keefe Visits Glenn Portrait of Sean
          O'Keefe
          NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe visited the Glenn Research
          Center Thursday, January 24 as he continued a tour of NASA's
          field centers. Mr. O'Keefe met with Center management, addressed
          the employees and toured several of the Center's world-class
          facilities. [Full Story]

   [small_green_ball.gif] Local Students Link Up with Expedition 4 Crew
          Expedition 4 Crew
          On January 22, 2002, Glenn hosted over 300 students for a live
          educational conversation with the crew of the International
          Space Station. All of the fifth grade students from Parkside
          Intermediate School in Westlake, Ohio came to the Center for a
          educational day that was highlighted by the opportunity to pose
          questions to the Expedition 4 crew comprised of Yuri Onufrienko,
          Dan Bursch and Carl Walz who were in the "Destiny" Lab. The
          20-minute event enabled the students to ask questions such as,
          "How do you exercise on the ISS?" Astronaut Carl Walz answered
          by demonstrating how they use their excercise bike in space.

News Releases

   No. Date Title
   [new.gif] 02-006 01-28-02 NASA Glenn Sets Record for Combined Federal
   Campaign Donations
   [small_green_ball.gif] 02-005 01-22-02 New NASA Administrator O'Keefe
   To Visit Glenn Research Center
   [small_green_ball.gif] 02-004 01-14-02 Reactor Facility Decommissioning
   Workgroup Quarterly Meeting
   [small_green_ball.gif] 02-003 01-14-02 The Sky Is The Limit At New
   Educational Facility

          More releases are available from our News Release Index.

Shuttle & Space Station Missions

   [small_blue_ball.gif] Photo of Circuit Isolation Device One way or
          roundtrip?
          Space Shuttle Endeavour lifted off on December 5 at 5:19 p.m.
          EST to begin the STS-108 mission that took the fourth crew to
          the International Space Station. That crew includes Ohio
          astronaut and Cleveland native Carl Walz. A veteran of three
          space flights, Walz was a Mission Specialist aboard STS-79, the
          fourth Shuttle/Mir docking mission. Walz will stay aboard the
          ISS for five months and conduct several space walks. Joining
          Walz on the one way trip to the ISS were two Glenn-developed
          Circuit Isolation Devices (CIDs). The CIDs will be stowed
          on-orbit in the ISS airlock, Quest, and installed in the S0
          Truss when it is delivered to ISS on STS-110 early in 2002. Also
          during STS-108, the mechanisms that turn the large US solar
          arrays had thermal blankets installed on them to address
          concerns associated with induced thermal stresses. Glenn
          analysts helped the mission planners prepare for the spacewalk
          to install the blankets on the mechanisms that rotate the US
          solar arrays. Making the round trip in Endeavour's cargo bay
          were two Glenn microgravity experiments in Get Away Special
          (GAS) canisters. The Microgravity Smoldering Combustion (MSC)
          experiment was developed by Glenn scientists and academic
          investigators to examine smolder processes in normal gravity and
          in microgravity. Also flying wasthe COLLisions Into Dust
          Experiment (COLLIDE-2) [non-NASA link] that investigated
          collisions between small particles such as those found in
          planetary rings that frequently occur at very low speeds.
          Endeavour landed on December 17 at 12:55 p.m. EST.

   You can learn about NASA Glenn's Contributions to the International
          Space Station and NASA Glenn's Contributions to the Space
          Shuttle. NASA Glenn provides coverage of each shuttle mission as
          a part of its regular NASA Television Coverage on the Internet.
          You can also follow the missions via amateur radio.

Space Science and Earth Science Missions

   NASA Glenn supports Space Science and Earth Science missions by
   providing critical technologies for launch vehicles and scientific
   spacecraft.

   [small_red_ball.gif] EO-1 Gets Extra Pulse from Glenn

          EO-1 Illustration

          The Earth Observing 1 (EO-1) satellite, the first of three New
          Millennium Program Earth-orbiting missions, is an advanced
          land-imaging mission that will demonstrate new instruments and
          spacecraft systems. One of those systems is the pulsed plasma
          thruster (PPT) developed by NASA Glenn. The PPT flight
          validation began Friday, January 4, 2002 and ran through Monday,
          January 7, 2002. EO-1 was launched on a Delta 7320-10 from
          Vandenberg Air Force Base on November 21, 2000. [More]

Conferences, Workshops and other Events

   [small_orange_ball.gif] There are no listings at this time.

   To add a conference, workshop or event, points of contact for NASA
          Glenn-sponsored activities should send a brief description and a
          URL to defelice@grc.nasa.gov

  For more news services, please visit our On-line Newsroom.

                                    Line

   Responsible Official: David M. DeFelice, Community and Media Relations
                                   Office
                  Web Site Curator: webmaster@grc.nasa.gov

                 Last updated on Monday, 28-Jan-02 16:12:54
