http://www.fta.dot.gov/library/PA/ftafoia.html


   FTA corner of logo FTA top of logo
                      DOT logo

   FTA corner 2 Bookshop Links to Other Sites Search Grantees page Site
                Map What's New Contact FTA

   side bar graphic


                          Federal Transit Administration

                    Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act

      The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA) grant
      you the right to access many government records about how the
      government operates.

      Under FOIA, any person has a right to a copy of certain records
      possessed by the executive offices, agencies, corporations,
      administrations, commissions, boards and services. However, some
      records are protected from disclosure, such as sensitive personal,
      commercial, and governmental information.

      Under the PA, if an agency files information about you by your name, or
      any other means that identifies you (such as social security number),
      you have certain rights:
       1. to see the information;
       2. to keep other people from seeing it; and
       3. to correct it if it is wrong.

      It helps if you can tell us if you can tell us in some detail what
      information you are seeking.

      Please submit your request for FOIA to the Office of Public Affairs,
      and for PA to the Office of Information Resources Management (see
      address below). Your request should be identified as a FOIA or PA
      request and must be in writing. You should provide as much detail as
      possible about the records you seek. Please include your telephone
      number so that we can contact you if we have questions. Because fees
      may be required, you should state how much you are willing to pay as
      advance authorization. You may not always be able to obtain records
      when records are protected from disclosure such as sensitive personal,
      commercial, and governmental information.


   Federal Transit Administration
   Office of Public Affairs
   Room 9400
   400 Seventh St., SW
   Washington, DC 20590
   Phone: (202)366-4043
   Fax: (202)366-3472
   Email: Click here to send Email

   Electronic Reading Room

      The Electronic Reading Room contains documents specifically identified
      for inclusion by the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), under 5 U.S.C.
      552 (a)(2)(D). Records created on or after November 1, 1996 are
      available to the public if FTA has determined that they have become, or
      are likely to become the subject of multiple FOIA requests. The number
      of items in the Reading Room will continue to grow.
        * Directives

        * FTA Annual Report for Fiscal Year 1997
        * FTA Federal Register Publications

        2001    2000     1999     1998    1997     1996
        * International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (IMPAC)

        * One DOT FOIA Page

       Freedom of Information Act Background Information
        * Information on FOIA (U.S. Department of Justice)
