http://www.state.gov/r/pa/rls/dos/436.htm

    globe                                             U.S. Department of State
          lines
                                   Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

          About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
          Abroad
          Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
          Education and Culture
          Business Center Other Services Employment

   [Print Friendly Version]


      Department Organization


         The following publication provides an overview of the organization of
         the Department of State.  Additional resources include an organization
         chart, a list of bureaus and offices, and the publication Diplomacy:
         The State Department at Work, which provides a more detailed look at
         how the Department formulates, represents, and implements the
         President's foreign policy.

         The Executive Branch and the Congress have constitutional
         responsibilities for U.S. foreign policy. Within the Executive Branch,
         the Department of State is the lead U.S. foreign affairs agency, and
         the Secretary of State is the President's principal foreign policy
         adviser. The Department advances U.S. objectives and interests in
         shaping a freer, more secure, and more prosperous world through its
         primary role in developing and implementing the President's foreign
         policy. The Department also supports the foreign affairs activities of
         other U.S. Government entities including the Department of Commerce and
         the Agency for International Development. It also provides an array of
         important services to U.S. citizens and to foreigners seeking to visit
         or immigrate to the U.S.

         All foreign affairs activities -- U.S. representation abroad, foreign
         assistance programs, countering international crime, foreign military
         training programs, the services the Department provides, and more --
         are paid for by the foreign affairs budget, which represents little
         more than 1% of the total federal budget, or about 12 cents a day for
         each American citizen. This small investment is key to maintaining U.S.
         leadership, which promotes and protects the interests of our citizens
         by:
           * Promoting peace and stability in regions of vital interest;
           * Creating jobs at home by opening markets abroad;
           * Helping developing nations establish stable economic environments
             that provide investment and export opportunities;
           * Bringing nations together to address global problems such as
             cross-border pollution, the spread of communicable diseases,
             terrorism, nuclear smuggling, and humanitarian crises.

         As the lead foreign affairs agency, the Department of State has the
         primary role in:
           * Leading interagency coordination in developing and implementing
             foreign policy;
           * Managing the foreign affairs budget and other foreign affairs
             resources;
           * Leading and coordinating U.S. representation abroad, conveying U.S.
             foreign policy to foreign governments and international
             organizations through U.S. embassies and consulates in foreign
             countries and diplomatic missions to international organizations;
           * Conducting negotiations and concluding agreements and treaties on
             issues ranging from trade to nuclear weapons;
           * Coordinating and supporting international activities of other U.S.
             agencies and officials.

         The services the Department provides include:
           * Protecting and assisting U.S. citizens living or traveling abroad;
           * Assisting U.S. businesses in the international marketplace;
           * Coordinating and providing support for international activities of
             other U.S. agencies (local, state, or federal government), official
             visits overseas and at home, and other diplomatic efforts.
           * Keeping the public informed about U.S. foreign policy and relations
             with other countries and providing feedback from the public to
             administration officials.

         The Department of State conducts all of these activities with a small
         workforce comprised of Civil Service and Foreign Service employees. In
         fact, the Department employs fewer people than do many local
         governments -- for example, in Memphis, Tennessee or Baltimore,
         Maryland. Overseas, Foreign Service officers represent America; analyze
         and report on political, economic, and social trends in the host
         country; and respond to the needs of American citizens abroad. The U.S.
         maintains diplomatic relations with about 180 countries and also
         maintains relations with many international organizations, adding up to
         a total of more than 250 posts around the world. In the United States,
         about 5,000 professional, technical, and administrative Civil Service
         employees work along side Foreign Service officers serving a stateside
         tour, compiling and analyzing reports from overseas, providing
         logistical support to posts, consulting with and keeping the Congress
         informed about foreign policy initiatives and policies, communicating
         with the American public, formulating and overseeing the budget,
         issuing passports and travel warnings, and more.



      Bureaus and Offices of the Department
      Of State in the U.S.

      The Office of the Secretary of State

         The immediate Office of the Secretary (S) is comprised of the
         Secretary's Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, the Secretary's
         secretary, the Executive Assistant, two special assistants, the
         Secretary's scheduler, staff assistant, and two personal assistants.
         This staff handles all of the day-to-day matters of the Secretary,
         including meetings at the Department, functions in Washington and
         throughout the country, and travel around the world.

         The Executive Secretariat (S/S), comprised of the Executive Secretary
         and three Deputy Executive Secretaries, is responsible for coordination
         of the work of the Department internally, serving as the liaison
         between the Department's bureaus and the offices of the Secretary,
         Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretaries. It also handles the
         Department's relations with the White House, National Security Council,
         and other Cabinet agencies.
           * The Secretariat Staff (S/S-S) works with the various offices of the
             Department in drafting and clearing written materials for the
             Secretary, Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary for Political
             Affairs. This staff also is responsible for taking care of advance
             preparations for the Secretary's official trips -- domestic and
             international -- and staffing the "mobile office" and keeping the
             Secretary's schedule on track during the trip.

           * The Operations Center (S/S-O) is the Secretary's and the
             Department's communications and crisis management center. Working
             24 hours a day, the Operations Center monitors world events,
             prepares briefings for the Secretary and other Department
             principals, and facilitates communication between the Department
             and the rest of the world. The Operations Center also coordinates
             the Department's response to crises and supports task forces,
             monitoring groups, and other crisis-related activities.

         In addition, there are several other offices attached to the
         Secretary's office:

         Created in 1947 by George Kennan at the behest of Secretary George
         Marshall, the Policy Planning Staff (S/P) serves as a source of
         independent policy analysis and advice for the Secretary of State. The
         Director of Policy Planning has a rank equivalent to Assistant
         Secretary. S/P's primary responsibilities include formulation of
         long-term policies to achieve U.S. objectives; coordination of policy
         to promote the priorities of the Secretary of State; speech writing for
         the Secretary; and liaison with non-governmental organizations, "think
         tanks," and others for outside views on matters relevant to U.S.
         policy.

         The Office of Resources, Plans, and Policy (S/RPP) advises the
         Secretary of State on the International Affairs (Function 150) budget,
         coordinates with other departments and agencies to ensure that
         resources support key national security and foreign policy priorities,
         and assists the Secretary in allocating foreign assistance. Among the
         important budget documents produced by S/RPP each year are: (1) the
         Summary and Highlights of the International Affairs Budget Request and
         (2) the Congressional Budget Justification for Foreign Operations.
         S/RPP also helps lead the strategic and performance planning process of
         the Department. As a member of the strategic planning team, which
         includes the Office of Management Policy and Planning (M/P), the Bureau
         of Financial Management and Policy (FMP), and the Bureau of Human
         Resources (DGHR), S/RPP directs planning by overseas missions and
         domestic bureaus. S/RPP co-manages revising: (1) the United States
         International Affairs Strategic Plan and (2) the U.S. Department of
         State Strategic Plan.

         The Office of Protocol (S/CPR), under the direction of the Chief of
         Protocol, directly advises, assists, and supports the President of the
         United States, the Vice President, and the Secretary of State on
         official matters of national and international protocol, and in the
         planning, hosting, and officiating of related ceremonial events and
         activities for visiting heads of state. The Office also is the
         administrator of Blair House, the President's official guesthouse. In
         cooperation with the Under Secretary for Management, the Assistant
         Secretary of State for Administration, the Executive Secretary of the
         Department, and the regional bureaus, the Office of Protocol serves as
         the coordinator within and between the Department and the White House
         on all protocol matters for Presidential or Vice Presidential travel
         abroad. The Chief of Protocol, the Deputy Chief, and four Assistant
         Chiefs share responsibility for officiating the swearing in of senior
         State Department officials, selection boards, and incoming Foreign
         Service and Civil Service employees.

         The Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism (S/CT) heads U.S.
         Government efforts to improve counterterrorism cooperation with foreign
         governments. The Coordinator chairs the Interagency Working Group on
         Counterterrorism and the State Department's task force to coordinate
         responses to international terrorist incidents. The Coordinator has
         primary responsibility for developing, coordinating, and implementing
         American counterterrorism policy.

         Other offices attached to the Office of the Secretary deal with
         personnel issues, including the Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil
         Rights Office, the Civil Service Ombudsman, and the Foreign Service
         Grievance Board. There are also several offices headed by ambassadors
         at large, special advisers, and senior coordinators for such foreign
         policy areas as the Middle East Peace Process, , War Crimes, and
         Democracy in the Balkans.

         In addition, the following bureaus and offices, although not attached
         to the Office of the Secretary, report directly to the Secretary.

         The Office of the Permanent Representative to the United Nations
         (USUN/W) is headed by the Permanent Representative, a Cabinet member
         who represents the United States at the UN. This office shapes U.S.
         policy at the UN, working for multilateral policy formulation and
         implementation where possible and seeking to make the UN and its
         agencies more effective instruments for advancing U.S. interests and
         addressing global needs.

         The Bureau of Legislative Affairs (H) serves as liaison between the
         State Department and the Congress. The bureau performs a critical role
         in advancing the President's and the Department's legislative agenda in
         the area of foreign policy.

         The Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR), drawing on all-source
         intelligence, provides value-added independent analysis of events to
         Department policymakers, ensures that intelligence activities support
         foreign policy and national security purposes; and serves as the focal
         point in the Department for ensuring policy review of sensitive
         counterintelligence and law enforcement activities. INR's primary
         mission is to harness intelligence to serve U.S. diplomacy. The bureau
         also analyzes geographical and international boundary issues, and
         developed the Geographic Learning Site (GLS) for K-12 students.

         The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent office that
         audits, inspects, and investigates the programs and activities of all
         elements of the Department of State and the Broadcasting Board of
         Governors for International Broadcasting. The Inspector General reports
         directly to the Secretary, the Broadcasting Board of Governors and to
         the Congress on the results of this work and makes recommendations to
         promote economy and efficiency and to prevent fraud, waste, and
         mismanagement in State Department and international broadcasting
         programs and operations.

         The Office of the Legal Adviser (L) furnishes advice on all legal
         issues, domestic and international, arising in the course of the
         Department's work. This includes assisting department principals and
         policy officers in formulating and implementing the foreign policy of
         the United States and promoting the development of international law
         and its institutions as a fundamental element of those policies.

         Also, although the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
         remains an independent agency following the reorganization of the
         foreign affairs agencies in 1999 in which the Arms Control and
         Disarmament Agency and the United States Information Agency (USIA) were
         merged into the Department of State, USAID receives general direction
         and overall foreign policy guidance from the Secretary.

         Counselor of the Department

         The Counselor is a principal officer of the Department, serving the
         Secretary as a special advisor and consultant on major problems of
         foreign policy, and providing guidance to the appropriate bureaus with
         respect to such matters.  The Counselor conducts special international
         negotiations and consultations, and also undertakes special assignments
         from time to time, as directed by the Secretary.

          Under Secretaries and Their Components


      The Under Secretaries also report directly to the Secretary and serve
      as the Department's "corporate board" on foreign policy in the
      following areas:
        * Political affairs;
        * Economic, business, and agricultural affairs;
        * Arms control and international security;
        * Global affairs (including the environment,
          human rights, and health issues);
        * Management; and
        * Public diplomacy and public affairs.

         Offices and bureaus that do not report directly to the Secretary are
         organized in groups to support policy planning, coordination, and
         execution by the six Under Secretaries, as follows:

         Under Secretary for Political Affairs (P) Group
         The Under Secretary for Political Affairs is the Department's crisis
         manager and is responsible for integrating political, economic, global,
         and security issues into the United States' bilateral relationships.

         The geographic bureaus coordinate the conduct of U.S. foreign
         relations. The Department has grouped countries of the world in the
         following areas of responsibility under six bureaus and one office.
         These are:

        * Bureau of African Affairs (AF)
        * Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs (EAP)
        * Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs (EUR)
        * Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs (NEA)
        * Bureau of South Asian Affairs (SA)
        * Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs (WHA)

         The Assistant Secretaries of these geographic bureaus advise the Under
         Secretary and guide the operation of the U.S. diplomatic missions
         within their regional jurisdiction. They are assisted by Deputy
         Assistant Secretaries, office directors, post management officers, and
         country desk officers. These officials work closely with U.S. embassies
         and consulates overseas and with foreign embassies in Washington, DC.

         The State Department's Bureau of International Organization Affairs
         (IO) develops and implements the policies of the U.S. Government within
         the United Nations and its affiliated agencies, as well as within
         certain other international organizations. The IO Bureau does this via
         nine offices in Washington and seven field missions: in New York,
         Geneva, Vienna, Rome, Paris, Montreal, and Nairobi. Together, the
         various elements of the IO Bureau engage in what is known as
         "multilateral diplomacy" to promote and defend the many overlapping
         interests of the American people. Subject areas addressed by the IO
         Bureau include: peacekeeping, democracy and human rights, humanitarian
         and refugee assistance, international trade, economic development, safe
         food production, transportation safety, public health, terrorism, and
         the environment. To meet these objectives, the IO Bureau also promotes
         effective and efficient management within the international
         organizations themselves.

         Under Secretary for Economic, Business, and Agricultural Affairs (E)
         Group
         The Under Secretary for Economic, Business, and Agricultural Affairs
         serves as the senior economic official at the Department of State. The
         Under Secretary advises the Secretary of State on international
         economic policy and leads the work of the Department on issues ranging
         from trade, agriculture, and aviation to bilateral relations with
         America's economic partners.

         The Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs (EB) promotes the full
         range of U.S. economic and business interests around the world and in
         so doing, fosters regional and global stability, creates and secures
         good jobs, enhances consumer choice, lowers the prices Americans pay
         for goods and services, protects interests of U.S. business and
         investors abroad, advances commercial ties around the world, improves
         international communications systems, and promotes energy security and
         safe and efficient global transportation.

         Within EB, the Office of Commercial and Business Affairs (EB/CBA):
           * Coordinates State Department advocacy on behalf of U.S. businesses;
           * Provides problem-solving assistance to U.S. companies in opening
             markets, leveling playing fields, and resolving trade and
             investment disputes;
           * Ensures that U.S. business interests are taken into account in the
             foreign policy process;
           * Develops and implements internal policies and training to improve
             the Department's support for U.S. businesses; and
           * Coordinates support with the Commerce Department's U.S. and Foreign
             Commercial Service for posts where the State Department is directly
             responsible for trade promotion and commercial services.

         Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security (T)
         The Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International
         Security manages global U.S. security policy, principally in the areas
         of nonproliferation, arms control, regional security and defense
         relations, and arms transfers and security assistance. The Under
         Secretary leads in policy formulation for nonproliferation and by
         delegation from the Secretary, performs a range of functions under the
         Foreign Assistance Act, Arms Export Control Act, and related
         legislation. The Under Secretary also serves as Senior Adviser to the
         President and the Secretary of State for Arms Control, Nonproliferation
         and Disarmament, and in that capacity has additional access and
         authorities.

         The Bureau of Arms Control (AC) leads U.S. negotiations for arms
         control agreements for nuclear, conventional, and chemical and
         biological weapons and their delivery systems. The Bureau will head up
         negotiations for a cutoff of fissile material production and an end to
         antipersonnel landmine transfer. In addition, the Bureau has the U.S.
         lead for negotiations and policy development related to efforts such as
         the Open Skies treaty and Confidence and Security Building Measures
         that help reduce the causes of mistrust, fear, and hostility amongst
         modern states. The AC Bureau leads implementation of all arms control
         agreements, including the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty and the
         Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions.

         The Bureau of Political-Military Affairs (PM) manages
         political-military relations throughout the world, including training
         and assistance for foreign militaries, and works to maintain global
         access for U.S. military forces. PM promotes responsible U.S. defense
         trade, while controlling foreign access to militarily significant
         technology, through export controls. PM also coordinates U.S. programs
         that help rid countries of landmines and other conventional weapons. PM
         helps protect national security by leading interagency efforts to plan
         for future crises -- including planning U.S. responses to cyber-attacks
         against vital computer networks or to nuclear, biological, or chemical
         attacks overseas.

         The Nonproliferation Bureau leads U.S. efforts to prevent the spread of
         weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons)
         and their missile delivery systems; to secure nuclear materials in the
         states of the former Soviet Union; and to promote nuclear safety and
         the protection of nuclear materials worldwide. It also promotes
         responsibility, transparency, and restraint in international transfers
         of conventional arms and sensitive dual-use (commercial and military)
         technology.

         The Bureau for Verification and Compliance (VC) is responsible within
         the Department for the overall supervision of all matters relating to
         verification of and compliance with international arms control,
         non-proliferation, and disarmament agreements and commitments. To this
         end the Bureau has oversight of policy development, implementation and
         resources related to verification and compliance. In this regard, the
         Bureau prepares the President's Annual Report to the Congress on
         Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control and Nonproliferation
         Agreements and Commitments. The Bureau also serves as the Department's
         verification and compliance policy liaison with the intelligence
         community, which includes providing guidance on funding and priorities
         for collection and analytic assets. As the lead in the Department for
         preserving and seeding development of verification technologies (e.g.
         managing the Verification Assets Fund), the Bureau heads the
         interagency Nonproliferation and Arms Control Technology Working Group
         (NPAC TWG). The VC Bureau also leads and coordinates multilateral
         negotiations in the EU, APEC, OECD, and other fora that address
         existing and emerging Information Technology threats and
         vulnerabilities to our economic security. The Bureau further leads and
         coordinates all bilateral negotiations and meetings aimed at
         identifying, developing, and facilitating science and technology
         solutions for critical infrastructure protection. The Nuclear Risk
         Reduction Center (NRRC) is also operated by the VC Bureau.

         Under Secretary for Management (M) Group
         The Under Secretary for Management group handles management improvement
         initiatives; the Department's information technology infrastructure;
         support services for domestic and overseas operations; and personnel
         matters, including retirement programs, recruitment, career
         development, training, and medical services.

         The Office of Management Policy and Planning (M/P) serves as a focal
         point for management improvement initiatives by providing dedicated
         policy, planning, and analytical support to the Under Secretary for
         Management (M). It supports Department-wide strategic planning
         activities. M/P has the lead for the implementing the Government
         Performance and Results Act of 1993. These efforts provide the linkage
         between foreign policy and management priorities M/P has principal
         responsibility for issues involving Chief of Mission (COM) authority
         (also known as ambassadorial authority), including staffing by other
         U.S. Government agencies at U.S. diplomatic missions overseas. It
         manages the Special Embassy Program, a program designed to streamline
         operations and reduce workload at our smaller posts overseas. M/P is
         responsible for writing and securing interagency clearance on the
         Letter of Instruction sent by every President since John F. Kennedy to
         his Ambassadors outlining their roles and responsibilities for the
         management of all U.S. Government operations in their missions. M/P
         also chairs the Permanent Coordinating Committee on Accountability
         Review Boards which review major security incidents overseas such as
         the bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.

         The Chief Information Officer (CIO) is the Department's lead official
         responsible for the information technology (IT) operations, policies
         and plans needed to achieve strategic Department missions. The CIO is
         the equivalent of an assistant secretary, and serves as the Secretary
         of State's and the Under Secretary for Management's principal advisor
         on IT matters. The CIO also heads the Department's Bureau of
         Information Resource Management (IRM). The IRM Bureau's mission is to
         provide the Department of State the reliable, secure, and high quality
         IT infrastructure and services that are fundamental to foreign affairs
         operations and the conduct of U.S. diplomacy.


      The Foreign Service Institute (M/FSI) is the federal government
      training institution that prepares American diplomats and other
      professionals to advance U.S. foreign affairs interests overseas and in
      Washington. At the National Foreign Affairs Training Center, the FSI
      provides more than 300 courses to more than 15,000 people a year from
      the State Department and about 40 other government agencies and the
      military service branches.

         The FSI's programs include courses in administrative, consular,
         economic/commercial, political, public diplomacy, and information
         management fields; leadership and management development; crisis
         management training; study of the world's major regions and countries;
         and training in some 60 languages from Albanian to Vietnamese. Other
         courses help family members prepare for the demands of a mobile
         lifestyle and living abroad. Most recently, FSI been making some
         courses available to U.S. private businesses that operate overseas.

         The Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Human
         Resources (M/DGHR) oversees the Bureau of Human Resources (M/DGHR), the
         Office of Medical Services, and the Family Liaison Office. M/DGHR
         determines employment requirements and administers recruitment,
         assignment evaluation, promotion, discipline, career development, and
         retirement policies and programs for the Department's Foreign and Civil
         Service employees.

         The Bureau of Administration (A) provides support programs to the
         Department of State and U.S. embassies and consulates. These programs
         include: real property and facilities management; procurement; supply
         and transportation; diplomatic pouch and mail services; official
         records, publishing, and library services; language services; setting
         allowance rates for U.S. Government personnel assigned abroad and
         providing support to the overseas schools educating their dependents;
         overseeing safety and occupational health matters; small and
         disadvantaged business utilization; and support for both White House
         travel abroad and special conferences called by the President or
         Secretary of State.

         Direct services to the public and other government agencies include:
         authenticating documents used abroad for legal and business purposes;
         responding to requests under the Freedom of Information and Privacy
         Acts and providing the Electronic Reading Room for public reference to
         State Department records and information access programs; printing
         official publications; and determining use of the Diplomatic Reception
         Rooms of the Harry S Truman headquarters building in Washington, D.C.

         The Bureau of Consular Affairs (CA) assists American citizens traveling
         or living abroad and issues visas to foreign nationals who wish to
         visit or reside in the United States. The Bureau's domestic passport
         agencies and U.S. consular sections overseas issue about 7.5 million
         passports each year. Annually, the Office of Overseas Citizens Services
         monitors the cases of an estimated 2,600 Americans arrested in other
         countries, responds to 21,000 welfare and whereabouts inquiries,
         repatriates about 1,000 U.S. citizens, assists about 3,000 returnees
         with family/friend prepaid trust funds, assists in the cases of some
         6,000 Americans who die abroad, and deals with crises -- such as
         hostage-taking, mass casualty situations, and natural disasters. The
         Bureau also issues Consular Information Sheets, Travel Warnings, and
         Public Announcements that provide important information to American
         citizens considering foreign travel.

         The Bureau of Diplomatic Security's (DS) regional security officers and
         engineers protect U.S. personnel and missions overseas, advising U.S.
         ambassadors on all security matters and providing an effective security
         program against terrorist, espionage, and criminal threats at U.S.
         diplomatic facilities. In the U.S., the bureau's special agents
         investigate passport and visa fraud, conduct personnel security
         investigations, issue security clearances, and protect the Secretary of
         State and many visiting foreign dignitaries. The Bureau also manages
         the Counter-terrorism Rewards Program, and trains foreign civilian
         police under the Anti-Terrorism Assistance Program. It also chairs the
         Overseas Security Advisory Council, a joint venture between the
         Department and the U.S. private sector to exchange timely information
         on security problems with U.S. businesses. The bureau's Office of
         Foreign Missions regulates selected activities of foreign missions in
         the United States to protect U.S. foreign policy and national security
         interests, and also helps foreign missions protect their diplomats and
         facilities. The office also helps protect the public from abuses of
         diplomatic privilege and immunity by foreign mission members and works
         to ensure that privileges granted to each foreign country's diplomatic
         personnel in the U.S. are equitable to that granted to U.S. diplomatic
         personnel in that country.

         The Bureau of Financial Management and Policy (FMP) oversees the
         Department's worldwide financial and asset management activities. FMP
         develops annual budget requests submitted to the Office of Management
         and Budget and the Congress; monitors financial execution of the
         budget; and reviews, on a biennial basis, the fees, royalties, rents,
         and other charges imposed by the Department for goods and services it
         provides.

         In addition, the bureau performs payroll services--such as foreign
         currency management and accounting, payroll, and fiscal records
         monitoring--and provides pension services for Foreign Service
         employees.

         Under Secretary for Global Affairs (G) Group
         The Office of the Under Secretary for Global Affairs coordinates U.S.
         foreign relations on a variety of global issues, including democracy,
         human rights and labor; environment, oceans and science; narcotics
         control and law enforcement; and population, refugees and migration. In
         addition, the Senior Coordinator for Woman's Issues, whose office deals
         with issues such as stopping violence toward and trafficking in women
         and children, reports directly to the Under Secretary.

         The Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) oversees
         initiatives and policies to promote and strengthen democratic
         institutions, civil society, and respect for human and worker rights.
         The bureau ensures that human rights and labor conditions in foreign
         countries are taken into account in the U.S. policy-making process. In
         support of these efforts, the bureau prepares and submits to the
         Congress annual reports on human rights practices and religious freedom
         in countries around the world.

         The Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs
         (INL) is charged with reducing illicit drug flows to the U.S. It works
         with foreign governments to reduce illicit drug crop cultivation and
         trafficking through crop control, enforcement, and alternative
         development programs. Through its training programs, it strengthens the
         ability of foreign law enforcement and judicial institutions to
         investigate, prosecute, incarcerate, and seize the assets of major drug
         traffickers and other international criminals.

         The bureau's training and information-sharing programs also help combat
         money laundering, fraud and other financial crimes, public corruption,
         and the international trafficking of illegal aliens, women and
         children, stolen vehicles, and firearms.

         The Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific
         Affairs (OES) melds an emphasis on environmental issues and science and
         technology with traditional diplomacy. The bureau, along with
         environment, science, and technology officers overseas, deals with such
         global issues as trade and environment; biodiversity; global climate
         change; environmental pollution; oceans policy, fisheries, and marine
         conservation; international civil and commercial space cooperation;
         technology; and health.

         The Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) coordinates the
         Department's policy on global population, refugees, and migration
         issues and manages migration and refugee assistance appropriations. The
         bureau is at the center of a cooperative effort among the State
         Department, other U.S. Government agencies, private voluntary
         organizations, and international agencies to implement a more
         comprehensive international population policy, including broadening of
         population assistance programs to cover a wider range of reproductive
         health services; provide assistance to refugees in first-asylum
         countries and admit refugees to the United States for permanent
         resettlement; and develop bilateral and multilateral approaches to
         international migration issues.

         Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs (R)
         The Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs has
         oversight of the public diplomacy functions of cultural and educational
         exchange as well as international information programs and the public
         affairs function of providing information to the U.S. audience.

         The Bureau of Public Affairs helps Americans understand U.S. foreign
         policy and the importance of foreign affairs by holding press
         briefings; hosting "town meetings" and other conferences around the
         U.S. and arranging local, regional, and national radio and television
         interviews with key Department officials; and providing audio-visual
         products and services. The bureau provides additional information and
         services by maintaining the State Department website at
         http://state.gov and a telephone information line (202-647-6575) for
         public inquiries. In addition, the Office of the Historian provides
         historical research and advice for the Department of State and
         publishes the official documentary history of U.S. foreign policy.

         The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) fosters mutual
         understanding between the people of the United States and other
         countries. It does this in close cooperation with State Department
         posts through cultural and professional exchanges and presenting U.S.
         history, society, art, and culture in all of its diversity to overseas
         audiences.

         The Office of International Information Programs (IIP) is the principal
         international communications service for the U.S. foreign affairs
         community. IIP has a variety of information initiatives and strategic
         communications programs, including Internet and print publications,
         traveling and electronically transmitted speaker programs, and
         information resource services. These are created only for key
         international audiences, such as the media, government officials,
         opinion leaders, and the general public in more than 140 countries
         around the world.

         Advisory Groups
         The Department of State has 17 federally chartered advisory groups,
         ranging from committees to commissions and panels that provide expert
         advice, ideas, and diverse opinions on a variety of issues from
         declassification of historical documents to international economic
         policy. These groups are comprised of experts and other interested
         individuals in businesses or other non-governmental organizations with
         special interests in the particular issue or field.



      Organization
      Of the Department of State Abroad

      U.S. Missions


      To support its relations with other countries and international
      organizations, the United States maintains diplomatic and consular
      posts around the world. Under the President's direction, the Secretary
      of State is responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of
      U.S. Government activities abroad. Missions to countries and
      international organizations are headed by Chiefs
         of Mission. They are considered the President's personal
         representatives and, with the Secretary of State, assist in
         implementing the President's constitutional responsibilities for the
         conduct of U.S. foreign relations.

         Most missions have personnel assigned from other executive branch
         agencies in addition to those from the Department of State; in some
         cases, State Department employees may account for less than one-half of
         the mission staff. Department of State employees at missions comprise
         U.S.-based political appointees and career diplomats, and Foreign
         Service Nationals. The last are local residents, who provide continuity
         for the transient American staff and have language and cultural
         expertise; they also are employed at post by other agencies.

         Other executive branch agencies represented may include the Departments
         of Commerce, Agriculture, Defense, and Justice (the Immigration and
         Naturalization Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the
         Federal Bureau of Investigation) and the U.S. Agency for International
         Development. Other U.S. Government agencies also make vital
         contributions to the success of U.S. foreign relations and in promoting
         U.S. interests.

         Country Missions

      In most countries with which it has diplomatic relations, the U.S.
      maintains an embassy, which usually is located in the host country
      capital. The U.S. also may have consulates in other large commercial
      centers or in dependencies of the country. Several countries have U.S.
      ambassadors accredited to them who are not resident in the country. In
      a few special cases--such as when it does not have full diplomatic
      relations with a country--the U.S. may be represented by only a U.S.
      Liaison Office or U.S. Interests Section, which may be headed by a
      Principal Officer rather than a Chief of Mission.

         The Chief of Mission--with the title of Ambassador, Minister, or Charge
         d'Affaires--and the Deputy Chief of Mission head the mission's "country
         team" of U.S. Government personnel. Responsibilities of Chiefs of
         Mission at post also include:
           * Speaking with one voice to others on U.S. policy--and ensuring
             mission staff do likewise--while providing to the President and
             Secretary of State expert guidance and frank counsel;
           * Directing and coordinating all executive branch offices and
             personnel (except for those under the command of a U.S. area
             military commander, under another chief of mission, or on the staff
             of an international organization);
           * Cooperating with the U.S. legislative and judicial branches so that
             U.S. foreign policy goals are advanced; security is maintained; and
             executive, legislative, and judicial responsibilities are carried
             out;
           * Reviewing communications to or from mission elements;
           * Taking direct responsibility for the security of the
             mission--including security from terrorism--and protecting all U.S.
             Government personnel on official duty (other than those personnel
             under the command of a U.S. area military commander) and their
             dependents;
           * Carefully using mission resources through regular reviews of
             programs, personnel, and funding levels;
           * Reshaping the mission to serve American interests and values and to
             ensure that all executive branch agencies attached to the mission
             do likewise;
           * Serving Americans with professional excellence, the highest
             standards of ethical conduct, and diplomatic discretion.

         The country team has responsibilities covering the following areas:

         Consular Affairs. Whether in a U.S. embassy or a consulate, consular
         officers at post are the State Department employees whom both American
         citizens overseas and foreign nationals are most likely to meet.
         Consular officers protect U.S. citizens abroad and their property.
         Overall, they touch the lives of millions of Americans living and
         traveling abroad:

         Consular officers provide emergency loans to U.S. citizens who become
         destitute while traveling abroad, search for missing Americans at the
         request of their friends or family, visit arrested Americans in prison,
         maintain lists of local attorneys, act as liaison with police and other
         officials on matters that affect the welfare of American citizens,
         re-issue lost or stolen passports, assist in resolving international
         parental kidnaping cases, help next of kin when American relatives die
         abroad, and generally provide many types of assistance to U.S. citizens
         abroad.

         Consular officers also perform non-emergency services -- dispensing
         information on absentee voting, Selective Service registration, and
         acquisition and loss of U.S. citizenship; providing U.S. tax forms;
         notarizing documents; issuing passports; and processing estate and
         property claims. U.S. consular officers also issue about 6 million
         nonimmigrant visas annually to foreign nationals who wish to visit,
         work or study in the United States and almost 500,000 immigrant visas
         to those who wish to reside here permanently.

         Commercial, Economic, and Financial Affairs. By helping American
         businesses abroad, the Department helps Americans at home, since every
         $1 billion in exported goods generates about 20,000 jobs in the United
         States. State and Commerce Department officers specialize in four
         areas:

         Commercial officers advise U.S. businesses on local trade and tariff
         laws, government procurement procedures, and business practices;
         identify potential importers, agents, distributores, and joint venture
         partners; and assist with resolution of trade and investment disputes.

         Economic officers advise U.S. businesses on the local investment
         climate and economic trends; negotiate trade and investment agreements
         to open markets and level the playing field; analyze and report on
         macroeconomic trends and trade policies and their potential impact on
         U.S. interests; and promote adoption of economic policies by foreign
         countries which further U.S. interests.

         Resource officers counsel U.S. businesses on issues of natural
         resources--including minerals, oil, and gas and energy--and analyze and
         report on local natural resource trends and trade policies and their
         potential impact on U.S. interests.

         Financial attaches analyze and report on major financial developments
         as well as the host country's macro-economic condition.

         Agricultural and Scientific Matters. Agricultural officers promote the
         export of U.S. agricultural products and report on agricultural
         production and market developments in their area. Animal and Plant
         Health Inspection Service officers from the U.S. Department of
         Agriculture are responsible for animal and plant health issues that
         affect U.S. trade and the protection of U.S. agriculture from foreign
         pests and diseases. They also expedite U.S. exports affected by
         technical sanitary and phytosanitary regulations.

         Environment, science, technology, and health officers analyze and
         report on developments in these areas and their potential impact on
         U.S. policies and programs.

         Political, Labor, and Defense Assistance Issues. Political officers
         analyze political developments and their potential impact on U.S.
         interests; promote adoption by the host country of foreign policy
         decisions which support U.S. interests; and advise U.S. business
         executives on the local political climate.

         Labor officers promote labor policies in countries to support U.S.
         interests and provide information on local labor laws and practices,
         including wages, non-wage costs, social security regulations, the
         political activities of local labor organizations, and labor attitudes
         toward American investments.

         Many posts have defense attaches from the Department of Defense.
         Security assistance officers are responsible for Defense Cooperation in
         Armaments and foreign military sales.  They also function as the
         primary in-country point of contact for the U.S. defense industry and
         U.S. businesses.

         Administrative Support and Security Functions. Administrative officers
         are responsible for normal business operations of the post, including
         overall management of personnel, budget, and fiscal matters; real and
         expendable property; motor pools; and acquisitions.

         Information management officers are responsible for the post's
         unclassified information systems, database management, programming, and
         operational needs. They also are responsible for the
         telecommunications, telephone, radio, diplomatic pouches, and records
         management programs within the diplomatic mission and maintain close
         contact with the host government's communications authorities on
         operational matters.

         Regional security officers are responsible for providing physical,
         procedural, and personnel security services to U.S. diplomatic
         facilities and personnel; they also provide local in-country security
         briefings and threat assessments to business executives.

         Public Affairs. Public affairs officers, information officers, and/or
         cultural affairs officers of U.S. missions overseas serve as press
         spokespersons and as administrators of such official U.S. exchange
         programs as those for Fulbright scholars, Humphrey and Muskie fellows,
         and foreign participants in International Visitor consultations in the
         United States. They also direct the overseas U.S. Speakers program and
         international electronic linkages such as the Worldnet TV satellite
         teleconferencing network at more than 200 posts.

         Legal and Immigration Matters. Legal attaches serve as Department of
         Justice representatives on criminal matters.

         Immigration and Naturalization Service officers are responsible for
         administering the laws regulating the admission of foreign-born persons
         (aliens) to the United States and for administering various immigration
         benefits.

         USAID mission directors are responsible for USAID Programs including
         dollar and local currency loans, grants, and technical assistance.
         USAID also provides humanitarian assistance abroad during times of
         natural or man-made disasters. Helping other countries develop through
         foreign assistance programs helps American business. As other countries
         develop, they begin to import goods from abroad -- and now account for
         one-third of all U.S. exports and more than one-half of America's farm
         exports.

         U.S. Representation at International Organizations

         U.S. representation at international organizations reflects the growing
         importance of multilateral diplomacy to the conduct of U.S. foreign
         relations. In addition to its bilateral embassies and consulates,
         accredited to just a single host country, the U.S. also sends official
         representatives to international organizations and conferences in
         various locations around the world. These representatives are typically
         organized into delegations. Some of the larger, more permanent
         delegations are designated "U.S. Missions," such as in Geneva or
         Vienna. Others are designated simply "U.S. Delegations," such as to the
         Conference on Disarmament or to the Organization for Security and
         Cooperation in Europe. Other "U.S. Delegations" are assembled for only
         a finite period to represent the U.S. at a single international event.

         Current permanent U.S. Missions to international organizations include:
           * U.S. Mission to the United Nations (USUN NY) (New York);
           * U.S. Mission to the Organization of American States (OAS)
             (Washington, DC);
           * U.S. Mission to International Organizations in Vienna (UNVIE)
             (Vienna);
           * U.S. Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (USNATO)
             (Brussels);
           * U.S. Mission to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
             Development (USOECD) (Paris);
           * U.S. Mission to the United Nations Office and Other International
             Organizations in Geneva (Geneva);
           * U.S. Mission to the European Union (USEU) (Brussels);
           * U.S. Mission to the International Civil Aviation Organization
             (USICAO) (Montreal);
           * U.S. Mission to the United Nations Agencies for Food and
             Agriculture (FODAG) (Rome); and
           * U.S. Observer Mission to the United Nations Educational,
             Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) (Paris).
           * U.S. Permanent Mission to the United Nations Environment Program
             (UNEP) and the United Nations Center for Human Settlements
             (Habitat) (UNCHS) (Nairobi)

         Related Foreign Affairs Agencies

         Following the reorganization of the foreign affairs agencies in 1999,
         the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the United States
         Information Agency (USIA) were merged into the Department of State, and
         the Broadcasting Board of Governors, which is responsible for all U.S.
         Government and government-sponsored broadcasting, became an
         independent, autonomous federal entity. The U.S. Agency for
         International Development remains an independent agency.


      The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is an independent
      agency that receives general direction and overall foreign policy
      guidance of the Secretary of State. USAID is headquartered in
      Washington, D.C., with offices in many countries around the world.
      USAID administers U.S. economic and humanitarian assistance
         programs designed to promote sustainable development in countries in
         Africa, Asia, the Near East, Latin America and the Caribbean, Central
         and Eastern Europe, and the New Independent States of the former Soviet
      Union.

   USAID assistance programs are administered through overseas missions
   that work in close coordination with U.S. embassies. USAID works to
   advance U.S. foreign policy objectives of shaping a freer, more secure,
   and more prosperous world by focusing its programs in four interrelated
   areas:
     * Improving health and population conditions;
     * Protecting the environment;
     * Promoting economic growth and agricultural development;
     * Building human capacity through education and training; and
     * Supporting democracy.

   In addition to providing humanitarian assistance, USAID promotes
   democratic values and international cooperation and helps establish
   economic conditions that expand markets for U.S. goods and services in
   developing countries. The agency funds technical assistance and
   commodity assistance, trains thousands of foreign students each year at
   American colleges, and supports development research. USAID also
   enlists the collaboration of the American for-profit private sector,
   non-governmental and private organizations, and universities in its
   programs. Foreign assistance programs, funded by a mere fraction of the
   1% of the total federal budget that goes to all foreign affairs
   programs, have ultimately put more dollars into the pockets of American
   taxpayers than they have ever taken out, because money spent on foreign
   assistance programs is usually spent in the U.S. -- in the form of
   purchases of food to be sent overseas, in spending on equipment and
   services sent overseas. Nearly 80% of U.S. Agency for International
   Development contracts and grants go to U.S. firms for such purchases.

   The Broadcasting Board of Governors is composed of nine bipartisan
   members with expertise in the fields of journalism, broadcasting, and
   public and international affairs. Eight members are appointed by the
   President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The
   ninth, an ex-officio member, is the Secretary of State.

   The BBG oversees all U.S. Government and government-sponsored,
   non-military, international broadcasting. This includes the activities
   of the five U.S. international broadcasting services: The Voice of
   America (VOA), WorldNet Television and Film Service, and Radio and TV
   Marti, which are part of the International Broadcast Bureau (IBB), and
   Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and Radio Free Asia (RFA), which are
   non-profit, grantee corporations. In addition to the broadcasting
   services, the IBB includes an Engineering Directorate that maintains
   transmitting facilities and provides support for all of IBB's
   broadcasting elements.

   The BBG Board also evaluates the mission and operation of U.S.
   international broadcasters in order to ensure compliance with statutory
   broadcasting standards, to assess quality and effectiveness, to
   determine the addition and deletion of language services, and to submit
   annual reports to the President and Congress.

   [End]

   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
