http://fedcac.gsa.gov/aces.stm

   FEDCAC logo and link back to FEDCAC home page
   contracts header
   seat management button
   virtual data center button
   disaster recovery button
   smart card button
   ODIN button
   TELIS button
   Millennia button
   ACES button

   Privacy Statement/Disclaimer

   Directions to FEDCAC

   Revised: 01/28/02
   Toolbar
   ACES Banner

   ACES Logo ACES will facilitate public access to services offered by
   government agencies through use of information technologies, including
   on-line access to computers for purposes of reviewing, retrieving,
   providing, and exchanging information utilizing e-commerce in a secure
   transaction environment through the use of certificates. By law, access
   to some government computer systems can be granted only when the agency
   is provided with assurance that the individual attempting access has
   been properly identified and authenticated as being authorized to
   access the computer system and the information requested.

   Use of these certificates is intended to provide identification and
   authentication, and non-repudiation via the use of digital signature
   technology. ACES certificates are intended for use by Federal
   authorized agencies and entities. The main objectives of this program
   is to provide members of the general public and government agencies
   with the capability to authenticate electronic digital signature
   services utilizing secure e-commerce.

   The ACES contractors will undergo security certification and
   accreditation prior to being authorized to collect identification
   information, issue ACES Certificates, and process certificate
   validation requests, as required by the Computer Security Act of 1987,
   Appendix III to (OMB) Office of Management Budget Circular A-130, and
   Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) 102.
   GSA is the approving authority.

   Members of the general public, individuals authorized to act on behalf
   of business entities, and agency applications that choose to use ACES
   will receive digital certificates, after first proving their identity
   as part of the registration process. These certificates can then be
   used for authentication as well as signature verification. ACES
   contractors will provide applicant registration and certificate
   manufacturing, issuance, maintenance, and validation for Government
   agency applications participating in ACES.

   links header
   Download Files

   ACES Program
