http://ftp.ssa.gov/pressoffice/release-site1.htm

Tuesday September 25, 2001

                                                                  Tom Tobin, Acting Press Officer

For Immediate Release

                                                                    410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973

                           Social Security Online
                               SOCIAL SECURITY

                                News Release


         Social Security Unveils New "Representing Clients" Website

   The Social Security Administration (SSA), recognizing the importance of
   timely and accurate information for those who represent claimants,
   today launched a new website on Social Security Online. "Representing
   Clients" provides comprehensive information for representatives and
   provides links to key SSA regulatory and program resources.

   "This website was created as a service to the thousands of attorneys
   and other representatives who provide assistance to people who apply
   for Social Security benefits," said Larry G. Massanari, Acting
   Commissioner of Social Security. "The right to representation is
   extremely important and this is part of Social Security's continuing
   effort to enhance the claimant representation process."

   The Social Security Act gives SSA the authority to approve fees for
   individuals representing Social Security claimants. In Social Security
   cases, when the representative is an attorney, SSA pays the fee
   directly to the attorney from the claimant's past-due benefits. In all
   other cases, SSA must approve the fee before a representative can
   charge a claimant for their services. Fees are most often authorized
   for representatives of claimants for disability benefits.

   The website, located at www.ssa.gov/representation, contains
   information on SSA regulations and operating procedures, as well as
   links to the Social Security Handbook, Program Operations Manual System
   (POMS), and relevant sections of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   Specific information about the claimant representation process is
   provided by topic:

   --Fee Petitions
   --Fee Agreements
   --Exceptions to the Fee Agreement Procedure
   --Model Fee Agreement
   --Standards of Conduct for Representatives
   --Code of Federal Regulations
   --Form SSA-1696 Appointment of Representative
   --Form SSA-1560 Petition to Obtain Approval of Fees

   A "frequently asked questions" section provides answers to commonly
   asked questions about representing clients. The website also provides
   statistics on payment of fees. From February 2000 through July 2001,
   for example, SSA paid more than 300,000 fees to attorneys totaling more
   than $700 million.

   In addition to the new website, SSA provides a wide variety of
   publications that explain the disability application and appeals
   process. Publications providing information for representatives and
   claimants are available online at www.ssa.gov/pubs, through SSA's
   toll-free telephone service at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY number
   1-800-325-0778), or at any local Social Security office.

      Note: Copies of most SSA press releases, as well as other Social
                    Security information and statistics,
      are available at SSA’s Internet site, Social Security Online, at
                             http://www.ssa.gov.
          Also look there for information on subscribing to SSA’s
             free electronic newsletter, Social Security e-news.

   SSA Press Office 4-H-9 West High Rise 6401 Security Blvd. Baltimore, MD
                                    21235
                        410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973
