http://www.delta.dfg.ca.gov/data/salvage/ffu.html

                            Fish Facilities Unit

                        Existing Facilities Projects

                                 [blbar.gif]

   The Fish Facilities Unit (FFU) of the Interagency Ecological Program is
   responsible for assessing the direct effects of existing and proposed
   water diversion facilities on the fishery resources of the Delta. The
   FFU has evaluated the efficiency and established operating criteria for
   the John E. Skinner Delta Fish Protective Facility, conducted studies
   to establish the design of past proposals for the Peripheral Canal
   intake screening facilities, and monitored the effects of newly
   constructed facilities such as the Montezuma Slough Salinity Control
   Structure, the North Bay Aqueduct, the South Delta Temporary Barrier
   Project and Contra Costa Water District=s Mallard Slough and Rock
   Slough intakes.


   Studies at the Montezuma Slough Salinity Control Gates in Suisun Marsh
   and the Georgiana Slough acoustical barrier have included the sonic
   and/or radio-tagging of adult chinook salmon. These tagged salmon have
   been tracked by boat and at fixed stations near the sites to determine
   whether the migration behavior of these fish is affected by the
   structure or barrier in question.


   The FFU has also done extensive work in Clifton Court Forebay
   evaluating predation losses, predator species composition and
   abundance, and pilot predator removal studies. Salmon smolt survival
   experiments have shown predation losses ranging from 63.3%-99.2%. Plans
   for a large scale predator removal have been determined to be
   infeasible and thus, abandoned, but sonic tagging studies using striped
   bass continue.


   The FFU has continued to improve facility operations and reporting
   since assuming sampling responsibilities for the fish salvage
   operations at the John E. Skinner Delta Fish Protective Facility from
   the Department of Water Resources. Salvage and loss information from
   the State and U.S. Bureau of Reclamation=s Tracy Fish Collection
   Facility is available on a daily basis, which is crucial as both
   facilities are required to monitor for incidental take of winter-run
   chinook salmon and delta smelt. This information is available to
   agencies involved with delta fish issues by access through a computer
   bulletin board and frequent facsimile reports.
   Sara and Ramiro removing predators

      For questions please send e-mail to:

   [email3.gif] Bob Fujimura

                                 [blbar.gif]

                        DFG BAY-DELTA IEP USFWS CERES
