http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/new-content.html

   Skip Navigation

NRC Seal
         Site Help | Site Index | Contact Us     __________   Submit    Advanced
         Search

   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

        Home Who We Are What We Do Nuclear Reactors Nuclear Materials
        Radioactive Waste Public Involvement Electronic Reading Room


   Site Help
   Advanced Search
   Index A-Z
   Site Map
   What's New
   Plug-Ins and Document Types Used at this Site
   Special Features
   Electronic Information Exchange
   NRC Site Accessibility
   Contact the Web Site Staff
   Privacy Statement
   Site Disclaimer

   Home > Site Help > What's New


     Throughout this site, you will find inactive links. The text in these
     links is underscored in black. We will gradually activate these links
       as we rebuild our site. See our Site Rebuilding Schedule for what's
             coming next. We appreciate your patience during this process.

What's New

   NRC adds links to new material for a given date on government work
   days. Links to this material remain on this page for about 30 days.

   January 28, 2002

   The NRC has just released several new documents on the NRC web page.
   They will be added to ADAMS shortly.

   January 22, 2002

   The Plant Assessment Results under the Reactor Oversight Process
   provide a plant-by-plant index to the most recent results, including
   inspection findings, performance indicators, assessment letters (with
   inspection plans), and inspection reports. The site also contains
   Comprehensive summaries showing the action matrix designation,
   inspection findings, and performance indicators for all operating
   reactors.

   January 18, 2002

   An advance paper copy of the Diablo Canyon Independent Spent Fuel
   Storage Installation (ISFSI) License Application dated 12/21/01, Docket
   72-26, including the Safety Analysis Report and Environmental Report,
   has been placed in the PDR. The paper copy is available for viewing and
   copying for a fee. The document can also be viewed in ADAMS
   (ML020180341).

   "Nuclear Security in the Post-September 11 Environment," presented by
   Chairman Richard A. Meserve at the National Press Club on January 17,
   2001.
