http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami/Review98/time_r98.html

               Frank I. González and Robert A. Kamphaus, PMEL

                                    Goal

   Assist Pacific States in the development, maintenance, and upgrading of
                          tsunami inundation maps.

                               Accomplishments

                Implement and Test Tsunami Inundation Models

      Two computer models for calculating tsunami inundation
      have been installed and tested -- the finite Element (FE)
      ADCIRC model as modified by Baptista and Myers, OGI,
      and the finite Difference (FD) MOST (Method of Splitting
      Tsunami) model developed by Titov, PMEL and Synolakis,
      USC. There are numerous differences between these two
      models, but the computational grid is the most obvious - the
      FE domain uses irregularly spaced triangles, while the FD
      domain uses a regularly spaced grid of computational nodes.

      As the first full-time tsunami modeling Center in the U.S.,
      TIME monitors advances in tsunami modeling and is
      systematically incorporating the improved technology into
      its inundation mapping capabilities.

              Apply Inundation Models for Selected Communities

   Inundation mapping has been completed for Newport, Oregon. Five
   additional mapping projects in Oregon and Washington state are
   in progress. Scenarios used to prepare the maps include locally
   generated tsunamis due to offshore earthquakes on the Cascadia
   Subduction Zone, and tele-tsunamis generated by distant earthquakes
   around the Pacific Rim. Inundation maps provide Emergency
   Managers with the essential information needed to develop evacuation
   maps for a community. This then becomes a fundamental tool
   for preparing coastal residents and visitors to take the life-saving
   steps necessary to avoid the devastation that has occurred in other
   tsunami-prone areas.

                  Archive Bathymetric and Topographic Data

      Until the Center for Tsunami Inundation Mapping Efforts was
      established, there was no central repository for bathymetry,
      topography, and other ancillary databases essential to tsunami
      modeling. TIME is archiving these data and providing them to
      all interested researchers.

                              Future Directions

     •  1998: Complete inundation maps for Washington and Oregon
   communities.

     •  1998: Perform inundation modelling for selected California and
   Alaska communities.

     •  1999: Perform inundation modeling for selected Hawaii communities.

                      http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami

     Funding support provided by the National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation
          Program and the NOAA Environmental Research Laboratories

                         PMEL 1998 Program Review -
            http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/programs/98prog-agenda.html
