http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/techadvs/t504035.htm

  United States Department of Transportation - Federal Highway
  Administration                                              FHWA Home Feedback

   DOT Logo

   U.S. Department of Transportation
   Federal Highway Administration

                             TECHNICAL ADVISORY

                       ROADWAY SHOULDER RUMBLE STRIPS

                                  T 5040.35
                              December 20, 2001
     __________________________________________________________________

   Par.
    1. What is the purpose of this Technical Advisory?
    2. Does this Technical Advisory supersede another FHWA Technical
       Advisory?
    3. What is the definition of a shoulder rumble strip?
    4. What is the background on rumble strip development and use?
    5. When is the use of rumble strips warranted?
    6. What types of rumble strip designs are most often used?
    7. How are rumble strips typically installed?
    8. How can the adverse effects of rumble strips on bicyclists be
       reduced?
    9. What are the FHWA's recommendations for the installation of
       shoulder rumble strips?
   10. Are there any reference materials on rumble strip use and
       effectiveness?

    1. What is the purpose of this Technical Advisory? This Technical
       Advisory contains information on state-of-the-practice for the
       design and installation of shoulder rumble strips and provides
       guidelines for their use on appropriate rural segments of the
       National Highway System (NHS).
    2. Does this Technical Advisory supersede another FHWA Technical
       Advisory? This Technical Advisory supersedes the information on
       shoulder rumble strips contained in Attachment 1, Typical Shoulder
       Treatments, of Technical Advisory T 5040.29, Paved Shoulders, dated
       February 2, 1990.
    3. What is the definition of a shoulder rumble strip? A shoulder
       rumble strip is a longitudinal design feature installed on a paved
       roadway shoulder near the travel lane. It is made of a series of
       indented or raised elements intended to alert inattentive drivers
       through vibration and sound that their vehicles have left the
       travel lane. On divided highways, they are typically installed on
       the median side of the roadway as well as on the outside (right)
       shoulder.
    4. What is the background on rumble strip development and use?
         a. One of the Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA's) primary
            goals is to reduce the number and severity of single vehicle,
            run-off-the-road crashes while preserving safe use of the
            roadway by bicyclists and pedestrians. Roadway improvements
            intended to decrease run-off-the-road crashes include better
            geometric design, increased skid resistant roadway surfaces,
            more durable pavement markings, and more visible roadside
            signs. In recent years, several State transportation agencies
            and toll road authorities have also installed and evaluated
            the effects of shoulder rumble strips on run-off-the-road
            crashes, particularly on rural Interstate highways and toll
            facilities. The results of these evaluations have consistently
            shown significant decreases in single-vehicle run-off-the-road
            crashes.
         b. Pavement surface texture or audible/vibrational treatments
            have been in use for nearly fifty years as a means to alert
            errant drivers leaving the travel lane. Such treatments have
            been improved over the years in an effort to develop strip
            elements that are more effective and can be more easily and
            accurately installed.
         c. Rolled-in strips on asphalt shoulders and formed-in strips on
            concrete shoulders were two of the earlier designs used in
            installing shoulder rumble strips by a number of states. In
            the mid to late 1980s the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission,
            after considering and testing several shapes, developed a
            rumble strip made of indented curved shapes which were 13 mm
            (1/2 in) deep, 180 mm (7 in) wide parallel to the travel lane
            and 400 mm (16 in) long perpendicular to the travel lane. The
            Commission determined this shape provided the best design for
            alerting drivers of both cars and trucks that their vehicles
            had crossed onto the roadway shoulder. The Commission found
            that the installation of the milled-in strip was preferred
            over the rolled-in design, not only because it was more
            effective, but also because it could be placed on existing
            pavement and could be more easily controlled during placement.
            Subsequently, many other states began to use this milled-in
            design because of its effectiveness and ease of installation.
    5. When is the use of rumble strips warranted?
         a. Run-off-road (ROR) crashes account for almost one-third of the
            deaths and serious injuries each year on the Nation's
            highways. For several years, inattentive driving has been
            identified as a significant causal factor in many of these
            crashes. While distracted, drowsy, or fatigued driving is not
            always identifiable during crash investigations, such behavior
            is considered by many to be prevalent among a large number of
            drivers involved in crashes of all types. Inattentive driving
            is considered by some to be as serious a problem as drunk or
            drugged driving.
         b. A number of studies have demonstrated the benefits of shoulder
            rumble strips in reducing death and serious injury caused by
            inattentive drivers in ROR crashes. The methodologies used in
            these effectiveness studies and their results vary from state
            to state, but all show some measure of crash reduction
            attributed to the presence of shoulder rumble strips. Many
            studies show very high benefit to cost (B/C) ratios for
            shoulder rumble strips making them among the most cost
            effective safety features available. To date, these studies
            have generally focused on rural freeways and toll facilities.
            Additional studies are needed to determine the effectiveness
            of shoulder rumble strips on two-lane rural roads.
         c. Rumble strips will not eliminate ROR crashes caused by
            excessive speed, sudden turns to avoid on-road collisions, or
            high-angle encroachments. Because they are intended to alert
            drivers "drifting" off the road, rumble strips are most
            effective when installed near the edge line adjacent to
            relatively wide shoulders. This placement provides motorists
            leaving the traveled way at a shallow angle with both time and
            space to steer back onto the roadway safely. Rumble strips
            installed at the outside edge of a shoulder with no useable
            recovery area beyond the shoulder are of questionable value.
            Long sections of relatively straight roadways that make few
            demands on motorists are the most likely candidates for the
            installation of shoulder rumble strips.
         d. A shoulder rumble strip has the additional benefit of
            providing a warning which may prevent an inattentive driver
            from traveling very far onto the shoulder and possibly
            striking a parked vehicle, a bicyclist, a pedestrian, or
            highway workers. A rumble strip may also serve as an effective
            means of locating the edge of the travel lane during inclement
            weather. Heavy rain or light snow often obscures the pavement
            marking edge line. Under conditions of poor or limited
            visibility, a rumble strip can help drivers maintain their
            proper lane position.
    6. What types of rumble strip designs are most often used?
         a. Types: There are four basic rumble strip designs or types:
            milled-in, rolled-in, formed, and raised.
             (1) Milled-in: This design is made by cutting (or grinding)
                 the pavement surface with carbide teeth affixed to a 600
                 mm (24 in) diameter rotating drum. The indentations
                 formed are approximately 13 mm (1/2 in) deep, 180 mm (7
                 in) wide parallel to the travel lane and 400 mm (16 in)
                 long perpendicular to the travel lane. The indentations
                 are approximately 300 mm (12 in) on center and offset
                 from the edge of the travel lane a distance of 100 mm (4
                 in) to 300 mm (12 in). Some research has been completed
                 recently on the effectiveness of narrower and shallower
                 cuts. Such variations from the original dimensions are
                 discussed in detail in paragraph 8.
                 (2) Rolled-in: The rolled-in design is generally
                 installed by using a steel wheel roller to which half
                 sections of metal pipe or solid steel bars are welded.
                 The compaction operation presses the shape of the pipe or
                 bar into the hot asphalt shoulder surface. The resultant
                 shape is generally 25 mm (1 in) deep, 50 mm (2 in) to 64
                 mm (2.5 in) wide parallel to the travel lane and 450 mm
                 (18 in) to 900 mm (35 in) long perpendicular to the
                 travel lane. The indentations are usually set 200 mm (8
                 in) on center and offset from the travel lane edge from
                 150 mm (6 in) to 300 mm (12 in).
                 (3) Formed: The formed rumble strip is added to a fresh
                 concrete shoulder with a corrugated form which is pressed
                 onto the surface just after the concrete placement and
                 finishing operations. The resultant indentations are
                 approximately 25 mm (1 in) deep, 50 mm (2 in) to 64 mm
                 (2.5 in) wide parallel to the travel lane and 400 mm (16
                 in) to 900 mm (35 in) long perpendicular to the travel
                 lane. The indentations may be in continuous pattern, but
                 are generally in groups of five to seven depressions
                 spaced approximately 15 m (50 ft) apart and offset from
                 the travel lane at about 300 mm (12 in).
                 (4) Raised: Raised rumble strip designs can be made from
                 a wide variety of products and installed using several
                 methods. The elements may consist of raised pavement
                 markers, a marking tape affixed to the pavement surface,
                 an extruded pavement marking material with raised
                 portions throughout its length or an asphalt material
                 placed as raised bars on the shoulder surface. The height
                 of the raised element may vary from 6 mm (1/4 in) to 13
                 mm (1/2 in). Spacing and width across the shoulder vary
                 widely.
         b. Location:
             (1) Most states offset shoulder rumble strips just outside
                 the edge line of the travel lane by a distance of 100 mm
                 (4 in) to 300 mm (12 in). This keeps the strip elements
                 some distance from the construction joint between the
                 travel lane and shoulder; it helps reduce the number of
                 inadvertent hits from passing traffic, especially larger
                 trucks; and it allows for a substantial width of the
                 paved shoulder to remain available for other users of the
                 shoulder. A few states prefer to offset the rumble strip
                 by as much as 770 mm (30 in) on wide shoulders to allow
                 for maintenance vehicles and work zone traffic to
                 straddle the rumble strip when driving on the shoulder.
                 Such placement, however, moves the strip further away
                 from the travel lane and narrows the recovery area
                 outside the strip, thereby reducing the time available
                 for an errant motorist to take corrective action after
                 crossing the rumble strip. It also reduces the travel
                 path available to bicyclists using the shoulder.
                 (2) Some states have installed milled-in shoulder rumble
                 strip elements 300 mm (12 in) in width perpendicular to
                 the travel lane instead of the original 400 mm (16 in).
                 This is done to leave more of the paved shoulder clear
                 for bicyclists. If the width is made much less than 300
                 mm (12 in), there is concern that a vehicle's tires,
                 especially those of a large truck, may bridge the
                 indentations, making them less effective in providing a
                 vibration alert. However, at least one study found that
                 large vehicle ROR crashes were a very small percentage of
                 the overall problem. Some states have used rumble strips
                 even narrower than 300 mm (12 inches) on facilities with
                 particularly narrow shoulders and significant
                 run-off-road crash experience. At least two states have
                 installed 200 mm (8 in) strips coincident with the
                 roadway edge lines.
                 (3) A few states place shoulder rumble strips along the
                 freeway acceleration and deceleration lanes. However,
                 most install the strip only along the shoulder near the
                 edge of the through travel lanes and stop it at the
                 beginning and end of auxiliary lanes. Shoulder rumble
                 strips are generally not placed on freeway ramps,
                 although they have been used to alert drivers of an
                 especially tight turn entering the exit ramp.
         c. Spacing:
             (1) Most shoulder rumble strips are installed without any
                 breaks or gaps except at exit and entrance ramps and at
                 street intersections and major driveways on non-freeway
                 facilities. The strips are not placed near the
                 intersection or driveway approaches to allow vehicles to
                 maneuver into and out of the intersections and driveways.
                 (2) At least one state uses an intermittent gap in their
                 freeway rumble strip installation of 1.5 m (5 ft) in
                 length between sets of milled-in elements 2.1 m (7 ft) in
                 length. This state determined that this length of gap in
                 the strip provides more of an alert sensation to the
                 driver than does the continuous strip.
                 (3) In some of the first installations of formed-in
                 rumble strip elements on concrete shoulders, the spacing
                 between groups of corrugated elements was often between
                 12 m (40 ft) and 15 m (50 ft). While an errant driver
                 might hit some of these elements on the shoulder, they
                 were not as effective in alerting drivers as continuous
                 shoulder rumble strips. Most strips on concrete are now
                 placed continuously with the elements spaced 300 mm (12
                 in) on center and offset from transverse shoulder joints
                 by at least 200 mm (8 in).
    7. How are rumble strips typically installed?
         a. An advantage of the milled-in strip is that it may be
            installed at any time, not only during shoulder construction,
            as long as the shoulder pavement is of sound material. As with
            all shoulder rumble strips, it is important to insure a
            constant and uniform alignment with the edge of the travel
            lane and that the proper depth and center to center spacing is
            maintained throughout the length of the installation. To
            protect milled-in strips from oxidation and moisture, some
            states place an asphalt fog seal over the milled-in strips.
         b. Some difficulties have been reported with the installation of
            rolled-in rumble strips on asphalt shoulders. These
            indentations are installed with a steel drum roller at the
            time of final asphalt compaction. If the installation is done
            when the asphalt temperature is too low, the indentation may
            not reach the proper depth and if the temperature is too high,
            the asphalt may not stabilize, and the proper depth and shape
            of the indentations are not attained. Also, with the steel
            drum roller riding on steel pipes or bars spaced every 200 mm
            (8 in), there may be insufficient asphalt compaction between
            the indentations and proper density may not be attained. This
            may lead to premature deterioration of the shoulder surface.
         c. In placing indented shoulder rumble strips on concrete
            shoulders, at least one state allowed a contractor to select
            either the milling method or the forming method for installing
            the standard milled shape. While the appearance and uniformity
            of the forming method was not as good as the milling method,
            the vibration and sound results were reported to be similar.
         d. Raised pavement markers, thermoplastic edge lines with raised
            portions, and raised preformed tapes are generally not used in
            climates where snow-plowing is likely to destroy them.
    8. How can the adverse effects of rumble strips on bicyclists be
       reduced?
         a. The FHWA fully supports the following statement from the 1999
            American Association of State Highway and Transportation
            Officials (AASHTO) Guide for the Development of Bicycle
            Facilities:

     "Rumble strips or raised pavement markers are not recommended where
     shoulders are used by bicyclists unless there is a minimum clear
     path of 0.3 m (1 ft) from the rumble strip to the traveled way, 1.2
     m (4 ft) from the rumble strip to the outside edge of paved
     shoulder, or 1.5 m (5 ft) to adjacent guardrail, curb or other
     obstacle."
         b. Rumble strips should only be installed when an adequate
            unobstructed width of paved surface remains available for
            bicycle use. To aid a bicyclist's movement to the left of a
            shoulder rumble strip when needed to avoid debris, make turns
            or avoid other shoulder users, some states provide periodic
            gaps of 3.0 m (10 ft) to 3.6 m (12 ft) between groups of the
            milled-in elements throughout the length of the shoulder
            rumble strip. A study by one state recommends a gap of 3.6 m
            (12 ft) between milled-in elements of 8.5 m (28 feet) to 14.6
            m (48 feet). Other states have specified 3.0 m (10 ft) gaps
            between 3.0 m (10 ft) milled-in elements.
         c. Small stones, sand and other debris often collect on roadway
            shoulders. Usually the air turbulence caused by passing
            traffic will keep the portion of the shoulder closest to
            traffic relatively clear of such debris. For this reason, most
            bicyclists prefer to ride on that portion of the shoulder
            nearest to traffic to avoid debris. To provide a clear area
            beyond the rumble strip for bicycle travel, highway
            maintenance agencies should periodically sweep shoulders along
            identified bicycle routes and other routes of high bicycle
            usage.
         d. Recent studies by two states attempted to develop modified
            rumble strip designs that would be more acceptable to
            bicyclists. The principle adjustments to the milled-in strip
            elements considered were reduced depth, reduced width and
            changes to the center-to-center spacing. Also, several types
            of raised elements have been tested and evaluated. These
            studies are identified in references m. and n. in paragraph
            10. Both studies concluded that a reasonable compromise
            between maximum warning to errant motorists and tolerable
            discomfort to bicyclists were reduced-depth, milled rumble
            strips.
    9. What are the FHWA's recommendations for the installation of
       shoulder rumble strips?
         a. Continuous, milled shoulder rumble strips should be installed
            on rural freeways and expressways on the NHS as an effective
            means of reducing single vehicle, run-off-road crashes caused
            primarily by any form of motorist inattention. While they may
            be installed on a project-by-project basis, economies of scale
            and timely implementation of shoulder rumble strips make
            system-wide installation projects highly desirable.
         b. There are a significant number of run-off-road crashes on
            non-freeway facilities such as rural multi-lane and two-lane
            roadways. Therefore, the FHWA recommends that shoulder rumble
            strips be used on those roadways for which an engineering
            study or crash analysis suggests that the number of these
            crashes would likely be reduced by the presence of rumble
            strips. In some cases, other countermeasures such as improved
            roadway geometry, additional signing and markings, or
            increased pavement skid resistance may be more appropriate
            than rumble strips or used in conjunction with them. When
            rumble strips are recommended, the following guidelines should
            be followed to the maximum extent practical:
                 (1) Standard milled rumble strips, installed as close to
                 the edge line as practical, should be used when a 2.4 m
                 (8-foot) clear shoulder width remains available after
                 installation of the rumble strip. This is the recommended
                 treatment for roadways with 3.0 m (10 foot) shoulders.
                 (2) A modified design should be used along shoulders 1.8
                 or 2.4 m (6 or 8 feet) wide when the remaining available
                 clear shoulder width is less than 1.8 m (6-feet) and the
                 road can be used by bicyclists. The most recent studies
                 indicate a milled depth of approximately 10 mm (3/8 inch)
                 provides reasonable warning to most motorists while not
                 being unduly dangerous to cross on a bicycle when
                 necessary. Several states have used narrower strips
                 (e.g., 300 mm (12 inches) or less) perpendicular to the
                 direction of traffic with apparent success. Others, as
                 noted above, have adopted a gap spacing to allow a
                 bicyclist to cross into the travel lane and back without
                 having to ride directly over the rumble strips. Since
                 rumble strips are not intended to be ridden on by
                 bicyclists and should be crossed with care, gaps in the
                 strip pattern may be more effective in allowing safe
                 crossings and are much easier to achieve than modest
                 reductions in the depth of each milled strip. A 3.6 m (12
                 ft) long gap between 14.6 (48 ft) long sections of rumble
                 strip is recommended. Consideration should be given to
                 increasing the gap spacing, narrowing the width of the
                 rumble strips, widening the shoulders for bicycle use, or
                 all of the above on long downhill grades where bicycle
                 speeds are likely to increase significantly.
                 (3) Rumble strips should not normally be used when their
                 installation would leave a clear shoulder pathway less
                 than 1.2 m (4-feet) wide (or less than 1.5 m (5-feet)
                 wide if there is an obstruction such as a curb or
                 guardrail) to the right of the rumble strip for bicycle
                 use. At locations where such space does not exist to the
                 right of the rumble strip, a rumble strip may be
                 installed if it is at least 0.3 m (1 foot) to the right
                 of the edge line. In this case, a bicyclist would be
                 expected to ride to the left of the rumble strip,
                 essentially along the outside edge of the traffic lane.
         c. Regardless of the type of rumble strip element installed,
            shoulder rumble strip usage should be coupled with continuing
            driver behavior safety programs aimed at educating the general
            driving public on the dangers of drowsy and inattentive
            driving. These programs need to encourage drivers to practice
            responsible behavior in preventing impaired and unsafe driving
            habits. Likewise, bicyclists should be made aware of the
            increased use of shoulder rumble strips and remain alert for
            their presence while riding along high-speed roadways.
         d. Rumble strips should not normally be used in urban or suburban
            areas or along roadways where prevailing speeds are less than
            80 km/h (50 mph). When used on non-access controlled
            facilities, they should be discontinued in advance of
            driveways and intersections and other locations where they
            would be crossed on a regular basis. Where rumble strips are
            being installed for the first time or where their use might be
            unexpected, appropriate signs and pavement markings alerting
            both motorists and cyclists to their presence are advisable.
            Since standard signing and markings do not presently exist,
            one state has initiated an experimental study under Section
            1A-10 of the Millennium Edition of the Manual on Uniform
            Traffic Control Devices to develop and evaluate proposed
            signing and marking for rumble strips.
         e. All responsible agencies should work in cooperation with
            bicycle groups, enforcement agencies, emergency groups and
            other roadway users, to develop policies, design standards and
            implementation techniques that address the safety and
            operational needs of all roadway users.
         f. Some states have installed milled centerline rumble strips on
            two-lane roads having a history of head-on and
            opposite-direction sideswipe crashes. Most of these
            installations have consisted of transverse grooves extending
            across the double yellow centerline and the space between
            them. Initial evaluation efforts have shown reductions in the
            types of crashes that centerline rumble strips address. The
            Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) has recently
            proposed a long-term evaluation of the overall effectiveness
            of this treatment and is seeking candidate sites nationwide.
            Transportation agencies interested in participating in this
            study are encouraged to contact Mr. Richard Retting at IIHS at
            rretting@iihs.org or at 703-247-1582 for details.
   10. Are there any reference materials on rumble strip use and
       effectiveness?
       Yes, the following references apply to the use of rumble strips.
         a. Use of Rumble Strips to Enhance Safety - A Synthesis of
            Highway Practice; National Cooperative Highway Research
            Program Synthesis 191, Douglas W. Harwood, 1993.
         b. Shoulder Rumble Strips: A Method To Alert Drifting Drivers;
            Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, Neal E. Wood, P.E., January
            1994.
         c. Application and Evaluation of Rumble Strips on Highways; Utah
            Department of Transportation, Salt Lake City, Utah, Institute
            of Transportation Engineers 64^th Annual Meeting, October
            16-19, 1994, Dallas, Texas, Eric Yuan-Chin Cheng, Ezequiel
            Gonzalez, and Mack O. Christensen, 1994.
         d. A Study of Effectiveness of Various Shoulder Rumble Strips on
            Highway Safety; Virginia Department of Transportation, Chung
            S. Chen, November 1994.
         e. Continued Research on Continuous Rumble Strips; University of
            Maine for the Maine Department of Transportation, Final
            Report, Technical Paper 94-4, Per Garder and John A.
            Alexander, December 1995.
         f. Shoulder Rumble Strip Effectiveness: Drift-Off-Road Accident
            Reductions on the Pennsylvania Turnpike; Pennsylvania Turnpike
            Commission; Transportation Research Record 1573, John J.
            Hickey, January 1997.
         g. Effectiveness of Shoulder Rumble Strips: A Survey of Current
            Practice; Report No. FHWA/NY/SR-97/127, Engineering Research
            and Development Bureau, New York State Department of
            Transportation, Rick L. Morgan, Dan E. McAuliffe, September
            1997.
         h. The Effectiveness and Use of Continuous Shoulder Rumble
            Strips; Federal Highway Administration, Kerry Perrillo, August
            1998.
         i. Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities; 1999,
            American Association of State Highway and Transportation
            Officials Task Force on Geometric Design.
         j. Analysis of Gap Patterns in Longitudinal Rumble Strips to
            Accommodate Bicycle Travel; Moeur, R.; Transportation Research
            Record, No. 1705, Pedestrian and Bicycle Transportation
            Research 2000, pp 93-98.
         k. Safety Evaluation of Rolled-In Continuous Shoulder Rumble
            Strips Installed on Freeways; Michael S. Griffith; Statistical
            Methods in Transportation and Safety Data Analysis for Highway
            Geometry, Design, and Operations. Transportation Research
            Record, No.1665, October 1999, pp. 28-34.
         l. Bicycle-Tolerable Shoulder Rumble Strips; Pennsylvania
            Department of Transportation, Elefteriadoiu, L. et al., March
            2000.
         m. Evaluation of Milled-In Rumble Strips, Rolled-In Rumble Strips
            and Proprietary Applications; California Department of
            transportation, Troy R. Bucko and Ahmad Khorashadi, May 2001

                                                                       /s/
                                                           Rudolph M. Umbs
                                  Acting Director, Office of Safety Design
     __________________________________________________________________

          FHWA Home | Directives | Technical Advisories | Feedback

   FHWA

        United States Department of Transportation - Federal Highway
                               Administration
