http://www.kids.gov/k_geography.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
   Image of two kids looking at a globe Geography Do you need to find out
     information about a certain region, country or city? Do you want to
     investigate volcanoes or the rain forest? Wanna see pictures of the
     earth from space? Find out all these things and more - all right at
                              your fingertips.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item CIA's Geography Kids Page - Geography trivia questions about all
                            areas of the world.
   Item Fact Finder Kids' Corner - Learn about the U.S. Census, get facts
            about your state, and have fun with quiz questions.
         Item NASA's Observatorium - National Aeronautics and Space
      Administration site for Earth and space data with pictures of the
     Earth, planets, stars, and other cool stuff, as well as the stories
                            behind those images.
    Item National Imagery & Mapping System - NIMA makes maps and provides
      imagery in support of our national defense. Groups that help with
    national defense are the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and others in
     the federal government. NIMA's information is also used by airplane
                         pilots and boat captains.
   Item USGS - Learning Web - Explore things on, in, around, and about the
     Earth such as plants and animals, land, water, and maps. Learn how
    biology, geology, hydrology, and geography can help us understand our
                              changing world.
    Item Visible Earth - If you've ever wondered what different parts of
     the Earth or nature look like, this is definitely the site for you!
       NASA brings us a searchable directory of pictures, images, and
     animations of the Earth, from pictures of the state you live in to
                radar images of glaciers or the atmosphere.
    Item Volcanoes of the World - Get updates on recent vocanic activity.
    Learn about the history and see pictures of volcanoes from around the
                                   world.

                             Organization Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Global Schoolhouse - This great site has fun sections like Project
     Registy (more than 700 online collaborative projects, organized by
   topic, grade, and project date), GeoGame (helping students learn about
    our world, its maps, and its people), and Field Trips (students share
        their discoveries during real-life field trips, while distant
                         classrooms follow along).
    Item Jason XII 2001: A Living Laboratory - Meet the team of argonauts
   for this Hawaiian adventure and investigate volcanoes, coral, culture,
   and more. Read the latest notes from the field and find out how to get
                                 involved.
    Item Stately Knowledge - Need to know the capital of Alabama? Want to
      know which hockey teams are in California? How about the size of
   Montana? These web pages will help you find out the basic facts of any
               state in the Union, including Washington, D.C.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
      Item Discovery School's A-to-Z Geography - Find information about
    regions, countries and cities around the world in A-to-Z Geography.
    Item Geography World - Great geography site including homework help,
                          quizzes, maps and games.
   Item License Plates of the World - A collection of license plate photos
                      and facts from around the world.
    Item Live from the Rain Forest - Let biologists take you to the heart
       of Earth's largest rainforest. Explore a gallery of images and
    information on the ecosystem, check out maps, and read journals that
              take you behind the scenes and into the jungle!
    Item National Geographics Kids Page - Family Geography Challenge is a
      fun and easy way for families to learn together about geography.
     Item Netstate.Com - This fun site has more than the symbols, flags,
      seals, emblems, and famous people of each state. Find interesting
    trivia, comparisons, and the 50 state designs for U.S. quarters too!
    Item Sinai - Explore this historic desert land that is Egypt's border
   with Israel. Meet the Bedouin inhabitants, tour amazing sites, dive its
    coral reefs, and discover why it is considered a holy and sacred land
                                for so many.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
