http://www.wy.nrcs.usda.gov/soilmoisture/soilmoisture.html

                            [USEMAP:heading1.gif]

    Irrigation Water Management (IWM) is applying water according to crop
     needs in an amount that can be stored in the plant root zone of the
                                    soil.
    [frontcropped.jpg]

    Appearance of different types of soil at various moisture conditions:

                     Fine sand and loamy fine sand soils

                    Sandy loam and fine sandy loam soils

                 Sandy clay loam, loam, and silt loam soils

                 Clay, clay loam, and silty clay loam soils

              Guideline for Estimating Soil Moisture Conditions

   The "feel and appearance method" is one of several irrigation
   scheduling methods used in IWM. It is a way of monitoring soil moisture
   to determine when to irrigate and how much water to apply. Applying too
   much water causes excessive runoff and/or deep percolation. As a
   result, valuable water is lost along with nutrients and chemicals,
   which may leach into the ground water.

   The feel and appearance of soil vary with texture and moisture content.
   Soil moisture conditions can be estimated, with experience, to an
   accuracy of about 5 percent. Soil moisture is typically sampled in
   I-foot increments to the root depth of the crop at three or more sites
   per field. It is best to vary the number of sample sites and depths
   according to crop, field size, soil texture, and soil stratification.
   For each sample the "feel and appearance method" involves:

   I. Obtaining a soil sample at the selected depth using a probe, auger,
   or shovel;

   2. Squeezing the soil sample firmly in your hand several times to form
   an irregularly shaped "ball";

   3. Squeezing the soil sample out of your hand between thumb and
   forefinger to form a ribbon;

   4. Observing soil texture, ability to ribbon, firmness and surface
   roughness of ball, water glistening, loose soil particles, soil/water
   staining on fingers, and soil color. [Note: A very weak ball will
   disintegrate with one bounce of the hand. A weak ball disintegrates
   with two to three bounces;

   5. Comparing observations with photographs and/or charts to estimate
   percent water available and the inches depleted below field capacity.

   [image2.jpg]

   Available Water Capacity (AWC) is the portion of water in a soil that
   can be readily absorbed by plant roots of most crops.

   Soil Moisture Deficit
   (SMD) or Depletion is the amount of water required to raise the
   soil-water content of the crop root zone to field capacity.
