http://www.ecr.gov/services.htm

   Services & Programs Services & Programs

   Back to Main Page About the Institute What is Environmental Conflict
   Resolution Morris K. Udall Foundation Training & Opportunities What's
   New - Upcoming Events Roster of ECR Practitioners Contact Us


   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
   More Services & Programs

     Introduction
   bar
     Federal Partnership Program
   bar
     Roster System & Referral Services
   bar
     Other Institute Programs
   bar
     Publications
   [sm_footer.gif]
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes) cleardot.gif (35 bytes)
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes)
   Any federal agency, or any person or organization involved in an
   environmental conflict with a federal agency, can call upon the
   Institute for assistance. The Institute maintains confidentiality in
   all appropriate projects and processes. Nonetheless, by law, the
   Institute must inform the President's Council on Environmental Quality
   (CEQ) of its engagement in a project and seeks CEQ's concurrence on
   projects involving more than one federal agency.

   The Institute's professional staff provides services that range from
   preliminary consultations to convening and conflict assessment, process
   design and guidance, large group facilitation, assisted negotiation and
   mediation, and dispute system design and evaluation. The Institute may
   assist the parties directly, sub-contract the work to qualified
   practitioners, or refer parties to panels of practitioners from whom
   they may select based on their needs and preferences.

   To determine whether the Institute itself will be involved in a
   particular project (as opposed to providing a referral), the following
   factors are taken into consideration:

   Projects must involve both

         0 Environmental, natural resources, or public lands issues
         0 A federal party or interest

   Priority consideration is given to projects with

    0 National implications or significance as a prototypical dispute
    0 Interagency/intra-agency/intergovernmental conflicts
    0 Issues where the Institute's status as a federal program can be
      helpful
    0 A focus on scientific and technical issues and/or potential for the
      use of advanced information-management tools

   Other management considerations are taken into account, such as

       0 Location of the dispute
       0 Availability of other dispute-resolution experts and programs
       0 In-house staff availability and expertise



     | Main Page | About the Institute | What is Environmental Conflict
     Resolution? | Morris K. Udall Foundation |
     | Training & Opportunities | What's New - Upcoming Events | Roster of
     ECR Practitioners | Contact Us |

   | Privacy Statement |

   U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
   Suite 3350, 110 S. Church Ave. • Tucson, AZ 85701 • Tel. (520) 670-5299
   Fax (520) 670-5530

   Copyright © 1999 U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
