http://lcluc.gsfc.nasa.gov/products/pdfs/LCLUC-DAAC.pdf

   The Transparent World Initiative The Russian DAAC at ScanEx, Moscow,
   Russia This message announces an establishment of a Distributed Active
   Archive Center (DAAC) for satellite remote sensing data for the Russian
   territory based on the existing archive at Research and Development
   company ScanEx located in Moscow (http://www.scanex.ru) . ScanEx
   currently holds huge amounts of data from the Russian Resurs
   satellites. Recently, ScanEx built a ground receiving station for Terra
   MODIS and started collecting and archiving data over the European part
   of Russia. Two more receiving stations built by ScanEx are being
   installed in other parts of Russia. Based on the experience at ScanEx
   in data archiving and distribution, a project "Transparent World" is
   being undertaken, with ScanEx serving as a DAAC for Landsat data over
   Russia. This initiative is directed at consolidating all available
   Landsat data over Russian territory that have been and will be bought
   from the U.S. Geological Survey EROS Data Center by Landsat users. This
   project is planned as a "pot luck" or an "open club" initiative, in
   which the participants are called to contribute either their data or
   pay a one-time fee. The Russian DAAC at ScanEx and the "Transparent
   World" project are endorsed by the Land-Cover/Land-Use Change Program
   at NASA Headquarters. Current issues of using Landsat in Russia:
   Researchers who study land- cover and land-use change over Russia using
   Landsat observations face a dilemma whether to acquire original scenes
   from USGS Eros Data Center for a relatively high price or to search for
   potential users that already have purchased these scenes so that the
   datasets could be requested from them and copied (there is no copyright
   agreement on Landsat-7 data; earlier Landsat data can be freely
   reproduced 10 years after the day of acquisition). The first option may
   be unaffordable to a wide community of researchers, especially when
   large-scale studies are to be undertaken and Russian taxes on purchases
   from abroad are taken into account. Moreover, Russian scientists not
   having foreign currency accounts have trouble paying to foreign
   institutions. The second option, on the other hand, may turn out to be
   very time consuming since there is no central mechanism for
   distributing information on scenes purchased at USGS EDC (requester,
   time, metadata, etc.). It is especially difficult for researchers in
   Russia to follow the second path because of communication problems.
   Benefits of a central data archive for Russian studies: The world
   science community will greatly benefit from having a center that would
   consolidate the Landsat and other data over Russia that have been
   already paid for and that would provide a mechanism for accessing these
   data directly from this center for a nominal price of data duplication
   and producing CD-ROMs. Participation in the the Transparent World
   project : To start organizing a data library of the available,
   "purchased once" Landsat data, we call for researchers interested in
   continuous access to data over Russia to participate in the Transparent
   World project using one of two options: 1) contacting ScanEx and
   agreeing on transferring a copy of some available Landsat data, or 2)
   paying a $625 participation one-time fee so that more Landsat data
   could be purchased by ScanEx The ScanEx DAAC will collect, archive and
   distribute satellite remote sensing observations over the Russian
   territory from Landsat. The Transparent World web site will provide
   browsing and on-line ordering capabilities. The data will be available
   in several formats specified on the web site.
