http://www.cns.gov/news/110801excerpt.html


   The Corporation for National Service News banner, click here for the
   News section home page.
   National Service and Homeland Security
   On November 8, President Bush outlined a plan to involve all Americans
   in helping to fight terrorism through commitments of service to their
   own communities. Following is an excerpt from that speech, which was
   delivered at the World Congress Center in Atlanta. The complete text of
   the speech can be found at www.whitehouse.gov/news/.

     In my inaugural address, I asked our citizens to serve their nation,
     beginning with their neighbors. This fall, I had planned a new
     initiative called Communities of Character, designed to spark a
     rebirth of citizenship and character and service. The events of
     September the 11th have caused that initiative to happen on its own,
     in ways we could never have imagined. Flags are flying everywhere --
     on houses, in store windows, on cars and lapels. Financial donations
     to the victims' families have reached more than a billion dollars.
     Countless Americans gave blood in the aftermath of the attacks. New
     Yorkers opened their homes to evacuated neighbors. We are waiting
     patiently in long security lines. Children across America have
     organized lemonade and cookie sales for children in Afghanistan.
     Many ask, What can I do to help in our fight? The answer is simple.
     All of us can become a September the 11th volunteer by making a
     commitment to service in our own communities. So you can serve your
     country by tutoring or mentoring a child, comforting the afflicted,
     housing those in need of shelter and a home. You can participate in
     your Neighborhood Watch or Crime Stoppers. You can become a
     volunteer in a hospital, emergency medical, fire or rescue unit. You
     can support our troops in the field and, just as importantly,
     support their families here at home, by becoming active in the USO
     or groups and communities near our military installations.
     We also will encourage service to country by creating new
     opportunities within the AmeriCorps and Senior Corps programs for
     public safety and public health efforts. We'll ask state and local
     officials to create a new modern civil defense service similar to
     local volunteer fire departments, to respond to local emergencies
     when the manpower of governments is stretched thin. We will find
     ways to train and mobilize more volunteers to help when rescue and
     health emergencies arise.
     I call on all Americans to serve by bettering our communities and,
     thereby, defy and defeat the terrorists. Our great nation --
     national challenge is to hunt down the terrorists and strengthen our
     protection against future attacks. Our great national opportunity is
     to preserve forever the good that has resulted. Through this
     tragedy, we are renewing and reclaiming our strong American values."

   National Service Home | AmeriCorps | Senior Corps | MLK Day of Service
   Learn & Serve | Leader Schools | President's Student Service Awards
   Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Policy
