http://www.stennis.gov/swips.html

   [swipslogo.gif]

   [USEMAP:swipsmenu.gif]

                                                            STENNIS CENTER

                                                         Board of Trustees

                                                                   Mission

                                                                     Staff

                                                                  PROGRAMS

                                                            Civil-Military
                                                                Leadership

                                                        Congress to Campus

                                                          Emerging Leaders

                                                           Stennis Fellows

                                                                   Stennis
                                                          Student Congress

                                                         Southern Women in
                                                            Public Service

                                                           Truman Scholars

                                             USS STENNIS Leadership Awards

                                                           SENATOR STENNIS

                                                  John C Stennis Biography

                                                        The Stennis Legacy

                                                            100th Birthday
                                                               Celebration

                                                                ADDITIONAL
                                                               INFORMATION

                                                          Government Links

                                                     Policy Institutions &
                                                    Public Service Centers

                                                   Public Service Partners

                                                    Public Service Careers

                               May 12-14, 2002
                         Charleston, South Carolina

   The Stennis Centers Southern Women in Public Service:  Coming Together
   to Make a Difference conference is a program unlike any other in the
   country.  Leaders who are women working at the local, state and federal
   levels unite behind the idea that America will benefit from more women
   in public service leadership.

   [congresswomen.jpg] This annual conference has become the most
   significant bipartisan gathering of women political leaders throughout
   the South who want to make a difference though public service at the
   national, state and local levels.  The purpose of the conference is to
   provide leadership development opportunities to women political leaders
   and to encourage more women to seek leadership positions in public
   service.  The regional focus on Southern states allows the Stennis
   Center to concentrate efforts on a part of the nation where the numbers
   of women in public service leadership are particularly low.

   Featuring many of Americas most prominent women political leaders such
   as Hillary Clinton, Elizabeth Dole, Geraldine Ferraro and Tipper Gore,
   the program has established a reputation over the last 10 years for
   high quality speakers and participants.  Past speakers include U.S.
   Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison, Mary Landrieu and Blanche Lincoln,
   former Secretaries of Labor Alexis Herman and Lynn Martin and ABC News
   correspondent Cokie Roberts.  Nearly every female member of Congress in
   the South has been involved.

   In 1995, the Stennis Center established the annual Lindy Boggs Award to
   recognize an outstanding woman from the South who has been a role model
   for women who want to make a difference through political leadership.
   Lindy Boggs is a former Congresswoman from Louisiana and former U.S.
   Ambassador to the Holy See.  Recipients of the award include former
   governors Martha Layne Collins and Ann Richards, former first lady
   Rosalynn Carter, former cabinet secretary Elizabeth Dole, NAACP
   chair-emeritus Myrlie Evers-Williams and former Mississippi lieutenant
   governor Evelyn Gandy.

   While there are a number of leadership programs available for women,
   the Stennis Centers conference is unique.  The conference site rotates
   throughout the Southern states to make it accessible to as many women
   as possible.  More importantly, the conference has built and continues
   to build a broad, bipartisan network of women leaders who can help and
   learn from each other.  Participants include statewide elected
   officials, state legislators, judges, mayors, cabinet officials,
   administrators, members of boards and commissions, civic leaders,
   professors, leaders of nonprofit organizations and women from the
   private sector who want to see more women in leadership positions in
   government.

   Women have made significant progress since this conference was founded
   in 1991.  The number of Southern women in the U.S. Congress has
   increased from four to 15.  The number of statewide elected officials
   has increased from six to 23.  Every Southern state now has more women
   serving in their state legislatures.

   Nevertheless, much work remains to be done to fully benefit from the
   untapped potential of womens leadership abilities.  As Senator Mary
   Landrieu of Louisiana said at the 2000 conference in Virginia, This
   nation becomes more perfect when people from every walk of life, from
   every part of society, from every race and economic background take
   part in the democratic process.

   Bringing more women into leadership positions is part of the Stennis
   Centers effort to improve the quality and character of government.  As
   more women take seats at the council tables where important decisions
   are made, citizens will benefit from the courage, integrity,
   intelligence and experience they bring.

   To meet the complexities and challenges of a new century, America must
   draw upon the resources, strength and talent of all her leaders.  That
   is why the Stennis Center will continue to support the achievements of
   women in public service and will seek to attract and equip more women
   leaders to government through the Southern Women in Public Service:
   Coming Together to Make a Difference conference.  The 12th annual
   conference will May 12-14, 2002 in Charleston, South Carolina..

   [transparent.gif]
