http://www.nceb.uscourts.gov/employment.htm

   EDNC Bankruptcy Seal

   Home
   Employment 1

                                              Employment Opportunities

                                                      Flag Line


                       APPLICATION PROCEDURE:

   Review the current open positions.

   Complete the application form, (you'll need the Adobe Acrobat Reader on
   our downloads page) mark the envelope "CONFIDENTIAL" and mail to:

   Personnel Specialist
   United States Bankruptcy Court
   Post Office Drawer 2807
   Wilson, NC 27894-2807

   INFORMATION FOR APPLICANTS:

   The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North
   Carolina is comprised of 44 of the state’s 100 counties and covers the
   eastern portion of the state from Raleigh to the Atlantic Ocean and
   bordering the states of Virginia and South Carolina. The court’s
   headquarters is located in Wilson and a divisional office is located in
   Raleigh.

   Employees of the United States Bankruptcy Court are "Excepted"
   appointments. Employees are considered "At-Will" judicial employees and
   are not included in the government’s competitive service classification
   system. Employees are subject to a one-year apprenticeship. Benefits
   include participation in health, life, and long-term disability
   insurance programs; participation in a retirement program; paid
   holidays; and annual and sick leave accrual. Positions are subject to
   mandatory electronic funds (EFT) transfer participation for payment of
   net pay.

   Employees are required to adhere to a Code of Ethics and Conduct which
   is available to applicants to review upon request.

   All applications will be reviewed to identify the best qualified
   candidates. Due to the volume of applications received, the court will
   only communicate with those individuals who will be invited for a
   personal interview. A criminal history background check will be
   initiated prior to final job offer. Applications are retained for six
   months.

   The United States Bankruptcy Court is an Equal Opportunity Employer.


   Thanks for visiting the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District
    of North Carolina's website. We hope you find the information on our
    web page useful. If you have any questions, comments or suggestions,
   please E-mail us! PLEASE NOTE:  Send all case specific inquiries to the
                          party handling the case.
