http://www.cami.jccbi.gov/aam-700/700LABMAN.HTML

      Office of Aerospace Medicine Logo Federal Aviation Administration
                        Office of Aerospace Medicine
                      Civil Aerospace Medical Institute
         OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Civil Aerospace Medical Institute Logo

                      FAA Office of Aerospace Medicine
                POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL FOR MEDICAL LABS

   This Laboratory Policy and Procedures Manual is intended to comply with
   all requirements of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment. The
   document below is the Policy section. The other sections are as
   follows:

   Procedures Section 1 - General Blood Collection

   Procedures Section 2 - CBC by Automated Cell Counter

   Procedures Section 3 - Blood Chemistries

   Procedures Section 4 - Fingerstick Blood Glucose

   Procedures Section 5 - Urinalysis

   Procedures Sections 6, 7, 8, ...

   We include a procedures section for each different test or testing
   method used in our laboratory. Each section contains general
   information about use, method theory, intrepretations, and common
   problems of the test from laboratory medicine texts and publications.
   Each section also contains specific information for the test used in
   our lab from the manufacturer, including specific reference to the
   operator's manual and package inserts for all the reagents.

   A copy of the CLIA regulations from the Federal Register is also
   included in the same binder.

CAMI Clinic Laboratory Policy Sections

   You man go directly to the following sections of the Laboratory Policy
   and Procedures Manual:
     Laboratory Personnel
     Proficiency Testing
     Patient Test Management
     Quality Assurnace
     Quality Control


   Test Menu

   CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs may perform the following waived
   tests:

   Dipstick Urinalysis (Section 5)

   Fingerstick Blood Glucose (WAIVED TYPE Section 6)

   Home Pregnancy Test (Section 6)

   Fecal Occult Blood (Section 7)

   For each of these tests the manufactures' instructions for obtaining
   the specimen and performing the test will be followed. These
   manufacturer's instructions and any additional considerations for
   collection and handling the samples are included in the appropriate
   procedures sections of this manual as indicated above.

   CAMI Clinic performs the following moderately complex tests:

   Complete Blood Count (without diff) by Sorono Baker 9000RX.

   CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs may perform the following
   moderately complex tests with a Kodak DT60 Chemistry instrument when
   that portion of the compliance program is complete:

   Total Cholesterol

   HDL

   Triglycerides

   Blood Glucose

   CAMI Clinic performs the following Physician Performed Microscopy:

   Microscopic Examination of Urine Sediment.

   Only William D. Mills, MD will perform this test. Qualifications
   include full medical licensure in Oklahoma and 15 years experience
   performing this test.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   PROFICIENCY TESTING

   CAMI Clinic will enroll in proficiency testing (PT) programs (that meet
   the criteria of 42 CFR part 493 (I) and are approved by HHS) for each
   of the moderately complex tests performed by the FAA. CAMI Clinic will
   test these PT challenges in the same manner as patients' specimens as
   specified in 42 CFR 493.801 (b).

   CAMI Clinic will conduct an internal proficiency testing program for
   FAA Branch Labs that perform moderately complex tests. This internal PT
   program is described in Appendix 2. The FAA Branch Labs will test these
   PT challenges in the same manner as patients' specimens. FAA Branch
   Labs may enroll in external PT programs meeting the requirements of the
   above paragraph if they choose. Any external or internal PT results
   that are unacceptable will be evaluated using an Unacceptable
   Proficiency Testing Result form as in Appendix 2.

   All PT programs will be authorized to release all results of PT testing
   to HHS as needed for CLIA compliance.

   PATIENT TEST MANAGEMENT

   CAMI Clinic and all FAA Branch Labs will accomplish patient instruction
   and preparation, collection of specimens, specimen preservation, and
   specimen transport in such a manner to ensure the positive
   identification and optimum condition of all patient specimens from the
   time they are collected until the testing is complete and the results
   reported.

   Patient Instruction and Preparation: Written instructions for
   explaining patient preparation and specimen collection will be used for
   all moderate complexity tests. Written instructions will be
   supplemented with oral instructions where applicable. Sample
   instructions that may be used are located in the appropriate test
   procedure section of this manual.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   Specimen Collection and Preservation: Procedures for specimen
   collection and preservation are located in the procedures sections of
   this manual and in the manufacturer's instructions for the individual
   tests. Only specifically trained personnel covered by an approved
   Bloodborne Pathogens Exposure Control Plan may perform venipuncture or
   capillary puncture.

   Specimen Labeling: All specimens will be accurately labeled at the time
   of collection. This labeling will be maintained from the time the
   specimen is collected until after the results are recorded to assure
   positive identification.

   Specimen Transport: Specimens transported out of the lab will comply
   with the written instructions from the receiving reference lab. All
   specimens will be accompanied by a properly completed requisition form.

   Test Requisitioning: Testing ordered for screening programs may be
   requisitioned by one written request from an authorized person for the
   entire target population of employees. Testing ordered for specific
   evaluation of a patient will be at the written or electronic request of
   an authorized person and will be a permanent part of the patient
   medical record and/or laboratory record. Testing called for in the
   8500-8 and other examinations will be considered as requested by the
   staff member signing the examination form.

   Test Records: CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs performing moderately
   complex tests will maintain an in-house test log in written or
   electronic format that contains the following:

   1) Unique specimen identification.

   2) Pertinent clinical information.

   3) Specimen type, i.e. urine, whole blood, serum, or plasma.

   4) Tests requested.

   5) Test results.

   6) Date and Time the lab collected the specimen.

   7) Condition and disposition of unacceptable specimens

   8) Records and dates (if different than 1) of specimen testing
   including identity of testing personnel.

   An example of a suitable test log is included in Appendix 3.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   Test Report: CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs performing moderately
   complex tests will use test reports containing at least the following
   information:

   1) Name and routing symbol/phone number of patient.

   2) Name and address of the lab location performing the test.

   3) Dates and Time specimen was obtained and tested

   4) The name of the test performed.

   5) The result of the test with applicable units of measure.

   6) Condition and disposition of unacceptable specimens

   7) Normal ranges of reported tests.

   The original test report or an exact duplicate will be retained by the
   lab for at least two years in a manner that permits timely
   accessibility. All labs will ensure patient confidentiality of test
   results and results will be released only to authorized persons.

   Panic Values: Each lab will immediately notify the employee or the
   physician if the test result is a "panic value". For CAMI Clinic and
   the FAA Branch Labs panic values are as follows:

   1) Total Cholesterol greater than 350mg%

   2) HDL Cholesterol less than 25mg%

   3) Triglycerides greater than 700mg/dl

   4) Blood Glucose greater than 250mg% or less than 50mg%

   Note that almost all waived tests and a majority of moderately complex
   tests are expected to be run while the employee waits and the employee
   will be given the results immediately.

   Referral of specimens: CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs will refer
   lab tests out only to laboratories possessing a valid CLIA certificate
   for the performance of the referred tests. The referring laboratory
   must retain or be able to produce an exact duplicate of each report for
   tests on specimens collected by the FAA then referred out. A log of
   tests referred out will be maintained with the same information as on
   the in-house log plus the name of the referral lab and the date results
   were received back. An example of a suitable log is included in
   appendix 3.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   QUALITY CONTROL

   All FAA Aviation Medicine employees who perform lab work will be
   familiar with and adhere to the quality control policies in this
   manual. The Policy and Procedure Manual will be available to lab staff
   anytime the lab is in operation. The quality control program involves
   monitoring the facilities, test methods and equipment, reagents,
   materials and supplies, procedure manual, equipment maintenance,
   calibration and calibration verification, control procedures, remedial
   actions, and maintenance of quality control records.

   For all moderate complexity tests CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs
   will:

   Procedure Manual: Follow the manufacturer's instructions for instrument
   operation and test performance. This will include requirements for
   specimen collection and processing, and rejection; step-by-step
   performance of the procedure including calculations and interpretation
   of results; preparation of controls, reagents, and other materials used
   in testing; calibration and calibration verification procedures; the
   reportable range for patient test results; control procedures; remedial
   actions to be taken when calibration or control results are
   unacceptable; limitations in methodologies including interfering
   substances; reference ranges; panic values; literature references;
   criteria for specimen storage and preservation;and equipment
   maintenance. A copy of the manufacturer's instructions will be kept
   with this manual.

   Follow the additional procedures set forth in this manual.

   Calibration Procedures: Perform and document calibration procedures at
   least every six months and as recommended by the manufacturer. Perform
   calibration verification as recommended by the manufacturer.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   Control Procedures: Perform and document control procedures using two
   levels of control materials for each analyte each day for chemistry
   (and each 8 hr for hematology) that tests are run and also as
   recommended by the manufacturer. Controls will be treated the same as
   patient specimens. No patient test results will be reported unless the
   control results are adequate. A general outline for performance of
   control procedures is in Appendix 3.

   Follow manufacturer's instructions for other general quality control
   measures for their particular test.

   Remedial Actions: If any problems or errors occur during the above
   quality control activity then remedial action will be taken and
   documented as described below. Problems could include:

   1) Equipment performs outside expected specifications.

   2) Patient test values outside reportable range.

   3) Test population requires change in reference range.

   4) Results of controls or calibration materials are unacceptable.

   5) Testing or reporting is unusually delayed.

   6) Errors in reported patient test results are detected. (Patient or
   physician must be promptly notified, corrected test report issued, and
   duplicates of original and corrected reports kept for two years.)

   All problems or errors will be reported to AAM-720 and AAM-7 by
   telephone or cc-mail.

   Corrective action will be documented on a corrective action form such
   as the example in Appendix 3. There is also an Out-of-Control
   Corrective Action Flowchart in Appendix 3.

   Quality Control Records: All quality control activity must be
   documented as described in the individual sections and these records
   retained for two years.

   The Director of FAA Laboratories will approve, sign, and date all lab
   policies and procedures. If the lab director changes, or policies or
   procedures are changed then reapproval is required within 60 days.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   Reagents And Supplies

   CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs use only reagents labeled with
   their identification, the date received, the lot number, an expiration
   date and recommended storage requirements. Reagents and supplies are
   not used beyond their expiration dates. Components of any kits of
   reagents are not interchanged with other kits with different lot
   numbers unless specifically allowed by the manufacturer. Lids are
   always replaced on dry reagents such as urinalysis strips to avoid
   premature deterioration. No reagents are prepared at CAMI Clinic or the
   FAA Branch Labs. Lab staff are aware of FAA procurement policies and
   resources.

   A sample inventory calendar can be found in Appendix 3.

   Instrument Maintenance: Routine preventive maintenance will be
   completed by assigned personnel as recommended by the manufacturer and
   will be documented. Examples of maintenance logs are located in
   Appendix 3. A maintenance contract is recommended. Instrument function
   checks will be performed with frequency and procedure as directed by
   the manufacturer. They will be documented as with the example
   operational check log in Appendix 3.

   Facilities: The environment in the working area of the labs will
   maintain a temperature of 65 to 76 F. If any reagents or specimens
   require refrigeration a refrigerator will be available and will
   maintain a temperature of 2 to 6 C. Proper lighting in the lab will be
   ensured. There will be provision for acceptable water quality and
   stable electrical current.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   LABORATORY PERSONNEL

   Laboratory Director: Charles Ruehle, MD

   Pathologist

   The laboratory director will meet the qualifications specified in 42
   CFR 493.1405 with the exception that as a Federal facility licensure in
   any state is acceptable. The laboratory director will be accessible to
   CAMI Clinic and the FAA Branch Labs to provide telephone or electronic
   consultation as needed. The director will ensure that the labs provide
   quality laboratory services for all aspects of test performance; the
   environmental conditions of the labs are appropriate for the testing
   performed and provide a safe workplace; test methodologies provide the
   quality or results required for patient care; verification procedures
   used are adequate; lab personnel are performing test methods properly;
   the laboratory is enrolled in an HHS approved PT program and the PT
   samples are tested, returned, results reviewed, and proper corrective
   action taken when needed; quality control and quality assurance
   programs are developed and followed; that remedial actions are taken
   and documented when needed and patient test results are reported only
   when the system is functioning properly; reports of test results
   include all necessary information; consultation is available to the
   labs clients regarding quality of test results reported and their
   interpretation; a sufficient number of lab personnel with appropriate
   education and training are employee and properly supervised; lab
   personnel have ongoing monitoring, testing, and training; an approved
   procedure manual is available to all lab personnel; the
   responsibilities and duties of all lab personnel is specified in
   writing and duties each is authorized to perform is indicated.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   TECHNICAL CONSULTANT: Charles Ruehle, MD

   Pathologist

   The technical consultant will meet the qualifications specified in 42
   CFR 493.1411 with the exception that as a Federal facility licensure in
   any state is acceptable. The Technical Consultant is available to the
   labs on an as needed basis for telephone or electronic consultation.
   The technical consultant will ensure that--selection of test
   methodology is appropriate for the intended use of results;
   verification of the test procedures performed and labs test performance
   characteristics are established; appropriate enrollment and
   participation in PT program is accomplished; a appropriate quality
   control program is established with proper parameters for acceptable
   levels of performance; satisfactory levels of performance are
   maintained throughout the testing process; technical problems are
   resolved and remedial actions are taken when needed; patient test
   results are not reported until test systems are functioning properly;
   training needs are identified and accomplished; competency of all
   testing personnel is evaluated and maintained; lab performance is
   optimal through direct observation of test performance, monitoring the
   reporting of results, review of records and worksheets, PT, assessment
   of problem solving skills. The Performance of testing personnel will be
   evaluated and documented at least semiannually the first year of work
   and annually thereafter.

   CLINICAL CONSULTANTS: See List in Appendix 1.

   All are licensed physicians.

   The clinical consultant will meet the qualifications specified in 42
   CFR part 493.1417 with the exception that as a Federal facility
   licensure in any state is acceptable. The clinical consultant will be
   available to the labs clients to provide clinical consultation, to help
   clients ensure that appropriate tests are ordered to meet needs, to
   ensure test reports include information required for specific patient
   interpretation, and to ensure that consultation is available and
   communicated to the labs clients on matters related to the quality of
   the test results reported and their interpretation for specific patient
   conditions.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   TESTING PERSONNEL: See list in Appendix 1.

   Testing personnel will meet the qualifications specified in 42 CFR part
   493.1423. The testing personnel will perform only those moderately
   complex tests that are authorized by the laboratory director. Each
   testing personnel will follow all lab procedures, maintain PT records
   showing same treatment as patient specimens, adhere to the lab's
   quality control activities, follow the established remedial action
   policies and procedures when needed, be capable of identifying problems
   that develop and of correcting problems or immediately notifying the
   lab director or technical consultant, and document all corrective
   actions taken.

   Testing personnel performance will be evaluated every 6 months for the
   first year then at least annually. Results of evaluations will be
   maintained in the personnel records on forms from Appendix 1. New
   testing personnel will be evaluated with forms from Appendix 1 prior to
   assignment in the lab.

   QUALITY ASSURANCE

   The FAA Aviation Medicine laboratories will conduct an ongoing quality
   assurance program through surveillance of documentation as it is
   generated and prompt evaluation of all reported problems or complaints.
   The lab procedure manual will be revised as needed and at least
   annually based on the results of the quality assurance activities.
   Quality assurance review meetings with the lab staff and the clinical
   consultant will be held at least quarterly with written minutes kept
   for two years. The quality assurance program will assess at least
   patient test management, quality control, proficiency testing,
   consistency between testing sites, and personnel.

   Approved by:

   Date:

   Last modified

   RETURN TO: [CAMI Home Page] [Occupational Health Page] [CLIA Page] [Top
   of This Page]
