http://honolulu.fbi.gov/contact/fo/hn/aboutus.htm

                       FBI Seal/Badge Honolulu - Links


     About Us with sunrise background

     Division Management

     Special Agent in Charge
     Daniel R. Dzwilewski

     Assistant Special Agent in Charge
     Kimberly K. Mertz

   Aloha and welcome to FBI Honolulu's web site.

   The Federal Bureau of Investigation, a United States federal law
   enforcement agency, serves as the investigative arm of the Department
   of Justice, with jurisdiction in some 300 classifications of cases. The
   work of the FBI includes investigations into organized crime, drug
   trafficking, bank robbery, kidnapping, extortion, air piracy, health
   care fraud, bank fraud, civil rights, white-collar crime, public
   corruption, cyber crime, terrorism, foreign counterintelligence, and
   threats to our national infrastructure and national security.

   The Honolulu Division has 165 employees in the positions of Special
   Agent, professional support, and specialty areas, based in Honolulu,
   Maui, Hawaii (Big Island), Guam and Saipan. Honolulu is one of three
   FBI field divisions with extraterritorial investigative
   responsibilities. Honolulu's area of responsibility covers the entire
   Pacific Rim, extending to Mongolia, westward to Afghanistan and
   southward to Antarctica.

   FBI Honolulu is located in the Prince Jonah Kuhio Federal Building, 300
   Ala Moana Boulevard, Suite 4-230.  Business hours are 8:15 a.m. to 5:00
   p.m., Monday through Friday.  If you need to speak to an FBI
   representative, you may telephone the office at (808)566-4300.

                    Photograph of Old Honolulu FBI Office

                   Photograph of Present Federal Building

   To request information pursuant to the Freedom of Information and
   Privacy Act, you may telephone the office during regular business
   hours.  Written requests may be sent to FBI Honolulu, P.O. Box 50164,
   Honolulu, Hawaii, 96850.

   If you contact us by e-mail, please include your name, telephone
   number, and address.  Although e-mail is reviewed, a reply via the
   Internet may not be possible due to security and authentication
   reasons.  Please do not include any attachments when sending e-mail
   since some systems may not be compatible.  Our e-mail address is
   Honolulu@FBI.gov

    Home Page | About Us | FBI's Most Wanted - Honolulu | Press Releases
   Investigative Programs | Jurisdiction | Resident Agencies | Employment
                            | Community Outreach
                  Other Sites | Privacy and Security Notice
