http://cox.house.gov/press/statements/091201floorterrrorism.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


      H.J. Res. 61: Expressing the sense of the Congress regarding the
    terrorist attacks launched against the United States on September 11,
                                    2001.
                               Floor Statement
                            Rep. Christopher Cox

   The magnitude of this tragedy is still revealing itself. The bombings
   are over, but the extent of the damage, the number of people killed, is
   still partially obscured to us.
   That this war, waged by foreign enemies of the US, happened on American
   soil makes it unique in our nation's modern history.
   That it happened on our city streets, that it targeted our national
   symbols -- makes it all the more unbelievable.
   But it is true. It happened. We are brought face to face with the grim
   reality that not only do a dangerous few of our fellow human beings
   hate America and what she stands for, but they are willing to kill all
   of us, and themselves, to vindicate that hate.
   These terrorist shock troops didn't know the names of the Americans
   they killed. They didn't know the first thing about the families
   they've destroyed forever.
   They didn't care.
   As General Norman Schwarzkopf so aptly observed yesterday, always --
   even during the Gulf War -- the United States has gone to extraordinary
   lengths to insure against civilian casualties in its military
   operations.
   But these terrorists intentionally target innocent men, women, and
   children.
   "That," he said, "is the difference between these bastards and us."
   The terrorists and the states that harbor them don't hate any one of us
   individually. They hate America; they hate our free society; they hate
   our civilization.
   Now, civilization must defend itself.
   We cannot bring back the wonderful people who perished yesterday.
   But we can honor their memory.
   The Statue of Freedom that stands as a beacon atop this Capitol was
   placed there when our nation was torn apart by a horrible Civil War.
   That war shook the foundations of this building, but it did not
   undermine the foundations of our country.
   Let us honor the dead, the wounded, and the tens of thousands of heroes
   who are bringing New York and Washington back to life.
   Let us defeat those who have declared war on America.

   Click here to read the text of H.J.Res. 61.
