http://ac.glr.cap.gov/howto.htm

                                [caphead.gif]

    Joining CAP

   Are you interested in aviation and space? Do you want to get involved
   in search and rescue, disaster relief, and other humanitarian services?
   Would you like to develop leadership skills and serve your community?
   If so, then you may want to join the Civil Air Patrol!
   Civil Air Patrol serves the country and community through its three
   missions of emergency services, aerospace education, and its cadet
   program.
   There are two main types of Civil Air Patrol membership, senior and
   cadet.
   Senior Membership- CAP Senior Membership is open to men and women who
   are over the age of 18. Civil Air Patrol offers a unique opportunity
   for individuals to serve their community and country. Senior members
   take part in a wide range of activities including...
   Teaching and working with cadets
   Search and Rescue Training and Service
   Counterdrug Reconnaissance Flights
   Aerospace and Leadership Educational Opportunities
   Cadet Membership- CAP Cadet Membership is open to young men and women
   who are enrolled in 6th grade or higher and are under the age of 19. If
   you join by age 18, you may stay in as a cadet member until age 21 and
   then become a senior member. Cadets join CAP for many reasons. Many
   join because they are interested in pursuing careers in aviation.
   Others join because of an interest in emergency services or the
   military. CAP has many things to offer cadets including...
   Aerospace Education (including flight opportunities)
   Leadership and Management Training
   Search and Rescue Training and Service
   Although closely associated with the United States Air Force, there is
   no military obligation as a member of Civil Air Patrol. All services
   are strictly voluntary. Members are eligible to wear a uniform similar
   to the Air Force uniform.
   Nationwide, Civil Air Patrol membership currently exceeds 52,000 men,
   women, and young people. There are approximately 1,200 members in
   Minnesota Wing.
   You do not have to be a pilot or own an airplane to become a member of
   Civil Air Patrol. We have a place for you: search and rescue mission
   observer, communications specialist, media relations officer, personnel
   officer, teacher, and many, many, more possibilities.
