http://www.ehr.nsf.gov/rec/





   National Science Foundation (NSF) The Division of Research, Evaluation
   and Communication (REC) Bypass Top Navigation

   Programs |  Publications |  Awards |  Deadlines |  About |  Help

      NSF > EHR > REC

   Welcome:

      The Division of Research, Evaluation and Communication (REC) was formed
      in 1992 to integrate and support three activities, each of which is
      essential to the EHR Directorate as a whole.

      The Division contributes to the broad field of educational research and
      improvement by funding projects through grants, contracts, and
      cooperative agreements (see REC Programs Guide). It also provides
      conceptual and technical assistance to various EHR programs and
      principal investigators, through project and program evaluation,
      dissemination and implementation of knowledge and effective practices,
      and the utilization of technology in education.

      REC awards are often funded by two or more programs, reflecting the
      fact that a project meets more than one set of guidelines and
      priorities.

   Headlines:

        * Program Director Position in Research Program Announced (IPA)
        * Program Director Position in REC (Evaluation) Announced

                                              More Headlines from REC Archive

   The NSF 01-92 (IERI) Guidelines remain in effect and are available
   here.

   Summary of awards and abstracts made under the ROLE Program's first
   competition.

   Archived information about the January 11-12 Principal Investigators
   Meeting is still available here.

   A summary of reports on the research questions, findings, methods, and
   other characteristics of a sample of REC grants is now publicly
   available.

   Please Note:

   The following programs are no longer accepting proposals.
     * Research in Education Policy and Practice
     * Research in Teaching and Learning (RTL)
     * Applications of Advanced Technologies (AAT)
     * Networking Infrastructure for Education (NIE)

   Return to the top

   Program Solicitations
    1. Interagency Education Research Initiative Program (IERI)
    2. Research on Learning and Education Program (ROLE)
    3. Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER)
    4. Evaluative Research and Evaluation Capacity Building NEW
       ANNOUNCEMENT

     * REC staff comments comparing first four programs

   REC Program Areas
    1. Research on Learning and Education
    2. IERI
    3. Evaluation and Communication

   The Division of Research, Evaluation and Communication (REC)
   National Science Foundation
   4201 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 855
   Arlington, Virginia 22230, USA
   [Tel: 703-292-8650]   [Fax: 703-292-9046]
