http://ntl.bts.gov/data/plan-policy/access/00223.html

                          [LINK]-BTS Navigation Bar

                                  NTL Menu
       _______________________________________________________________


            Corridor Preservation and Access Management Guidance
       _______________________________________________________________

Click HERE for graphic.

MISSION STATEMENT

TRANSLINKS 21-
Wisconsin's 21st century transportation plan - will outline a
comprehensive transportation system that moves people and goods
efficiently, strengthens our economy, protects our environment, and
supports our quality of life.  Working with DOT, the public will
identify Wisconsin's transportation needs - and help to make
tomorrow's transportation choices.


Tommy G. Thompson,
Governor

Charles H. Thompson
Secretary





                     CORRIDOR PRESERVATION AND
                     ACCESS MANAGEMENT GUIDANCE


             Guidelines to Assist Metropolitan Planning
        Organizations in Addressing Corridor Preservation and
           Access Management Concerns in their Communities


               Wisconsin Department of Transportation
                            January, 1994





                          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This report was prepared by the Wisconsin Department of
Transportation, Division of Planning and Budget.  It was written by
Joanne Lazarz of the Bureau of System Planning.  Helpful comments
were provided by Lloyd Kenyon of the division of Highways, Central
Office Design Section.  beneficial suggestions were also made by
the WisDot Urban System Planning Team, members of the Urban
Strategies Section and WisDOT Highway District Planning Sections.





INTRODUCTION

There is a growing awareness that land use decisions affect
transportation needs and transportation improvements, in turn,
affect land use decisions.  Freeway interchanges and arterial road
junctions have become focal points for new shopping centers,
industrial parks and office complexes.  Urban and suburban arterial
roadways are lined with strips of roadside development.


It has been argued that highway improvements have exacerbated
problems of sprawling, uncontrolled development by providing easier
access to urban fringe areas and beyond.  This development has, at
the same time, affected the functional integrity of roadways by
causing problems of congestion and capacity loss.


Rapid, often unplanned, peripheral development has frequently been
the source of major problems for both local and state
transportation systems:  buildings have often been constructed
close to the roadways, making future capacity expansion difficult
and costly; and too many access points onto roadways have resulted
in vehicle conflicts, reduced safety and a general deterioration in
traffic flow.  Once areas have been fully, or even partially,
developed, there is often little that can be done to alleviate
these problems.  However, toward the peripheries of urban areas,
where development occurs, how close it will be to existing roadways
and the type of access it will have to existing and future
facilities.


One of the fifteen factors that the Intermodal Surface
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) requires MPO; to
consider in their transportation planning process is the
interrelationship of transportation and land use.  This includes a
consideration of the likely effects of transportation decisions on
land use and development and the consistency of transportation
plans and programs with the provisions of local land use and
development plans.  Separate guidance will be provided to assist
MPOs in incorporating an array of land use issues into their
multimodal transportation plans.


The guidance contained herein specifically addresses two elements
of the transportation-land us relationship:  corridor preservation
and access management.


                                  1





CORRIDOR PRESERVATION

Corridor preservation is one means of coordinating transportation
planning with land use planning and development.  Its goal is to
prohibit, or at least minimize, development in areas which are
likely to be required to meet transportation needs in the future.
these areas include:  lands adjacent to existing roadways which are
projected to require capacity expansion; areas which might be
needed to construct entirely new routes for urban bypasses or to
serve new neighborhoods or commercial developments; and land needed
for bicycle, transit and pedestrian facilities (e.g. bikeways,
walkways, transit turnouts, busways and light rail corridors).

When corridors are preserved in advance, negative land use and
social impacts, as well as the costs of transportation
improvements, are minimized.  However, when land is not preserved
for future needs, disruption of residences and businesses is a
frequent result and the cost of obtaining the land to accommodate
improvements is likely to be considerably higher.  At times, the
needed improvement can not even be made because the disruption and
cost would be too great.


Click HERE for graphic.


Corridor preservation should be undertaken when the multimodal
planning process has indicated the need for additional or expanded
transportation facilities and extensive development within the
corridor has not yet taken place.  It is especially important in
those areas which are beginning to experience development
pressures.


Problems with Implementing Corridor Preservation

For several reasons, it is often difficult to preserve rights-of-
way for future transportation needs.  These reasons include:
controversy over the need for the improvement; uncertainty as to
exact location; infringement on the property rights of individuals;
and unwillingness of


                                  3





units of government to commit funds for property acquisition very
far in advance of a project, given other pressing needs and scarce
financial resources.

Preserving the needed right-of-way for the construction of a new
facility is the most difficult to accomplish because its exact
alignment will not be known until detailed preliminary engineering
and location studies and environmental impact assessments have been
completed.  Preservation of land for the future expansion of
existing facilities is somewhat easier because there is little or
no uncertainty about location.


Methods of Corridor Preservation

There are several techniques that can be used to preserve corridors
for future transportation purposes.  The following discussion
summarizes those tools, where they might be applied, the advantages
and disadvantages of each and which level of government can best
utilize them.


1. Purchase of land and interests in land:

The outright purchase of land for future use is, perhaps, the
simplest means of corridor preservation.  This tool is used to
secure rights-of-way where there is no question as to final
facility location.  For example, WisDOT At times buys additional
right-of-way at the time of initial roadway construction to
eliminate the need for purchasing it later at a higher price and to
ensure that no development will occur within the required area.
Purchased lands can then be leased back to former owners or others
until they are finally needed for project construction.  This
preservation tool is frequently used in cases of urban bypasses
which are forecasted to require additional lanes at some future
date.

Once the alignment of a roadway has been established, WisDOT
occasionally will initiate the advanced acquisition of a property
to protect the corridor from development which would make the land
more costly at a later date.

In other cases, WisDOT will purchase a property before it is
actually needed for project construction because knowledge that the
land will be required for future transportation purposes has had a
negative effect on the value of the property. (This process is
referred to as hardship acquisition.)

Purchase of land is usually not used for the long-range
preservation of land for entirely new corridors because the precise
alignment of the roadway will not be known until detailed location
and engineering studies and environmental assessments have been
done.


                                  4





However, the frequent loss of vital transportation corridors to
development, together with ISTEA emphasis on corridor preservation,
has led the Federal Highway Administration to begin exploring the
feasibility of creating a transportation right-of-way land bank as
a strategy for ensuring that key parcels be reserved for future
transportation purposes.



                  Methods of Corridor Preservation

                    . Purchase

                    . Official Mapping

                    . Building Setback Standards

                    . Developer Dedications


A major drawback of this technique for long-range corridor
preservation is that it requires an outlay of limited funds which
could be spent elsewhere to meet more immediately pressing needs.
For this reason, it is seldom used by either the state or local
units of government.

A related method WisDOT occasionally uses to preserve corridors for
future capacity expansion is to purchase easements (i.e. interests
in land), within which no development can be undertaken.  This is
done in situations where right-of-way is being purchased and the
easement price is negotiated along with the purchase price.

The advantages of this method are that the property remains on the
tax roles, the cost is considerably less than to purchase the land
and if the expansion doesn't prove to be necessary, WisDOT can
simply let the easement expire.  A disadvantage is that easements
can expire before the expansion proves to be needed and
renegotiation could be difficult.


2.  Official mapping:

A technique short of land acquisition is the use of official
mapping of future transportation corridors.  When planning for
transportation facilities, the state, counties, cities and villages
have the statutory authority to prepare plans and maps showing the
approximate location and width of future streets and highways.  The
purpose of the map is to inform the public of land areas which may
be required for future rights-of way, in order to prevent
development from taking place in the corridor.  In the case of
streets and highways, mapped right-of-way widths should accommodate
anticipated "build-out" traffic conditions.  That is, widths should
allow for roadways which are sufficient to handle traffic volumes
expected when adjacent and neighboring lands are fully developed.

     Cities and villages:  Cities and villages have the most
     extensive official mapping authority.  They can legally map
     and road (including state highways), railroad or public
     transportation facility within their jurisdictions and in the
     areas over which they have extraterritorial jurisdiction.


                                  5





Any property owner who desires to develop or improve lands within a
mapped corridor must apply to the city/village for approval.
Unless a permit is granted, any construction or enlargement of a
building within the mapped areas is not entitled to compensation
when land is purchased for the transportation facility.  However,
permits must be granted to property owners who can demonstrate that
development/improvement restrictions are causing them financial
hardship.

Mapping is often done in conjunction with, and adopted as part of,
a long-range master plan for a community.  When local ordinances
require that development be consistent with the master plan, the
community has the legal justification for rejecting a development
proposal within the mapped area.


Counties:  County Boards also have the authority to officially map
areas along existing roadways or entirely new highway corridor
locations with the approval of the governing body of the
municipality in which the roadway is located.  However, under
current statutes, property-owners are not required to obtain a
permit from the county for construction in mapped areas and there
is no provision to deny compensation for new construction there.


State:  The state's official mapping authority has two statutory
bases.  One statute gives WisDOT the authority to map "officially
designated freeways and expressways.' Under this statute, if a
property owner desires to make improvements within the mapped
corridor, WisDOT must be notified.  The state is then obligated to
either grant a permit or purchase the property within a 60-day
period.  If a permit is granted, owners must be compensated for the
improvement when the property is purchased for the transportation
project.

The other statute allows WisDOT to map changes to the official
state trunk highway system whenever it "deems the public good is
best served by making the changes." If the proposed change exceeds
2 1/2 miles, a public hearing must be held and the new alignment
must be approved by the appropriate county board(s).  New routes
are considered official state highway locations and any new
subdivision plats for abutting property are subject to WisDOT
approval just as plats for subdivisions along existing state
highways are subject to WisDOT review and approval.

However, because state highways cannot be mapped until specific
project alignments are known and environmental impact assessments
have been done, this is not a useful tool for long-range corridor
preservation.


Towns:  Towns do not have statutory authority for official mapping.
However, current state statutes do allow towns to adopt village
powers under certain circumstances.  One of those powers is the
authority to officially map for

                                  6





     transportation improvements.  Portions of towns within
     urbanized areas frequently fall within the extraterritorial
     jurisdiction of cities and villages and, thus, can be mapped
     by those units of government.

Attempts to reserve land for future transportation improvements
often come into direct conflict with the rights of individual
property owners because preservation devices may have an adverse
effect on the value of property and the uses to which it may be
devoted.  The longer the time between development of the official
map and the purchase of the land for the transportation facility,
the greater the likelihood that property owners will suffer.  This
is, in part, because the map puts a sort of "cloud" over the
property, often decreasing its salability due to the uncertainty
over when, if ever, the government will purchase the property.
Often property values in the area decrease as some tenants relocate
to other areas and property owners are reluctant to spend money on
maintenance and repairs.

Courts have held that an official map should contain a definite
time limit on development restrictions on private property and that
active planning and budgeting for the transportation project should
be taking place during the development freeze.  Past case law has
indicated that restrictions should be limited to about 12 to 18
months.

However, official maps are often used to indicate the probable
location of much longer range transportation improvements.  While
they may be subject to challenge in the courts, such maps do serve
to notify landowners of the intent to expand or develop corridors.
Knowing that a portion of their land is likely to be needed for
future transportation projects, property owners will generally
choose to build outside the future rights-of-way.

Transportation planners can work with local land use planners,
local transportation officials and developers to formulate site
plans which serve both development needs and longer-range
transportation planning objectives.  For example, developers can be
encouraged to voluntarily create site designs in which buildings
are located outside of areas which are likely to be required for
future transportation purposes.


3. Building Setback Standards:

It is also possible to preserve rights-of-way for the future
expansion of existing facilities by requiring adequate setbacks for
new construction.  However, there are potential legal problems with
this method.  Setback standards which promote the public welfare by
providing for increased light and air, vision clearance at
intersections and/or a safety buffer against noise and traffic are
considered proper in purpose and require no compensation of
landowners.

However, the courts have held that setback ordinances may not be
used for the sole purpose of reserving land for future roadway
widening.  That is, when a state or other public entity statutorily
precludes development or use of land within a proposed highway
corridor by

                                  7





denying development permits or other legal interference with the
use of the property, a 'taking" results and damages become due to
the land owner or the public agency must purchase the land.

Under its authority to purchase interests in land, WisDOT has
established setbacks for the purposes of corridor preservation and
compensated landowners for this restriction of their property
rights.

On land along state highways within subdivisions, WisDOT has the
authority to apply building setback standards.  Setbacks are
currently 50 feet from the edge of the right-of-way or 1 10 feet
from the centerline of the roadway.  This distance is sufficient to
allow for the minor widening of an existing 2-lane roadway or
shoulders, but is insufficient for expansion to a 4-lane facility
without causing excessive proximity damages to adjacent land.  On
state highways outside of subdivisions and on all other roadways,
setback standards are set by local governments.


4. Developer Dedications:

It is common for local units of government to ask developers and
individuals to dedicate a portion of their land for necessary
transportation improvements.  This technique is used to acquire
land for the construction of new routes to serve new developments
as well as to obtain the needed right-of-way for facility
expansions.  Dedications are sometimes requested by the state --
generally only in situations where the development has access onto
the state
facility.

Dedications are frequently used to.require developers to set aside
land for pedestrian/bike paths to enable intra-neighborhood
circulation and to interconnect one neighborhood with another.


                                  8





MPO Role in Corridor Preservation

Metropolitan transportation plans should include a corridor
preservation element which evaluates the need for corridor
preservation efforts in the area, indicates what type of effort
should be pursued, and proposes a method of monitoring future
development actions to ensure that preservation needs are being met
to the extent possible.

Specifically, in the arena of corridor preservation, MPOs should:

ß Be an advocate for corridor preservation efforts.

     .    MPOs should be an advocate for the need to preserve land
          for future transportation purposes.  They should raise
          the issue with local planners and both state and local
          transportation officials, in order to increase
          understanding of the benefits of coordinating local land
          use and transportation planning in general and to point
          out specific instances where action is needed to prevent
          the loss of lands needed for future transportation
          purposes.

     .    The need for and benefits of preservation should be
          discussed with the public to increase their awareness of
          the importance of considering future transportation needs
          when development decisions are made.


ß Identify preservation needs and establish priorities for
 preservation efforts.

     .    On the basis of the multimodal planning effort, which
          transportation corridors are likely to require capacity
          expansion by the year 2020? What new corridors will need
          to be developed for roadways or other transportation
          modes? What new interchanges will be needed?

     .    Where is it still possible to keep development out of the
          rights-of way needed for future transportation purposes?
          A map showing those corridors where preservation efforts
          should be undertaken should be developed.

          .Identify existing rail corridors where usage could be
          shared with other transportation modes and former rail
          corridors which might be used for other transportation
          purposes (e.g. bike paths, light rail lines).

     .    Monitor development pressures and give priority for
          corridor preservation efforts to those areas where
          development pressure is the greatest.

                                  9





ß Develop corridor preservation strategies.

     .    Where it has been determined that future corridor
          expansion or development is probable and corridor
          preservation is still a possibility, MPOs should work
          with local units of government to officially map
          corridors, establish appropriate setbacks and to
          establish requirements for developer dedications of land
          for future transportation improvements.  In some cases,
          this can be done through the initiation of a corridor
          planning process in which land use and transportation
          planners from all affected jurisdictions work together to
          develop a strategy for preserving rights-of-way, guiding
          development and managing access within a highway
          corridor. (See corridor planning discussion on Page 17.)

     .    The table on Page 11 indicates which preservation
          strategies might be appropriate on different types of
          facilities.


ß Monitor and document the progress of preservation efforts

     MPOs should monitor the progress and success of preservation
     efforts to determine the success of the various strategies
     outlined above.  The results should be included in
     metropolitan transportation plans and discussed in MPO
     newsletters.


                                 10





Click HERE for graphic.


                                 11





ACCESS MANAGEMENT

Traditionally, the goal of access management has been to provide
adequate access to land development while simultaneously preserving
the flow of traffic on the surrounding road system in terms of
safety, capacity and speed.  However, it has become increasingly
apparent that the planning and design of both roadways and
neighboring land uses must be coordinated not only to
simultaneously preserve the functional integrity of the highway
system while allowing efficient access to and from abutting
properties, but also to serve the desired land use objectives of
local communities.

Access management is but one tool for managing transportation in a
corridor.  Other management strategies include improving transit
service, reducing travel demands and making better use of street
space (e.g. removing parking).  These aspects of transportation
management will be covered in other MPO guidance papers.


The Need for Access Management

Road systems serve two necessary, but often conflicting, functions:
traffic movement and access to. land.  Arterial roadways should
primarily serve longer distance through-traffic, while local
streets should primarily provide direct access to land.  Collector
streets serve both functions to varying degrees.

As cities expand, increased development along arterial highways
generates more and more demand for driveways and intersecting local
roads to. serve abutting and nearby businesses, industries and
neighborhoods.  Without access planning and management, arterials
become increasingly congested and safety is-compromised.  Planning
the number of and controlling the location of access points helps
to ensure both the safe and efficient flow of traffic and improved
service to adjacent lands.  The functional integrity of the
arterial is maintained and major capacity improvements are often
not needed or can be delayed until a later date.  At the same time,
bicycle and pedestrian travel is made safer due to fewer sites for
potential conflicts with vehicles turning into and out of
intersecting driveways.

In the older, developed portions of urban areas, access management
is only possible on an ad hoc basis, with consolidation or removal
of existing access being sought in conjunction with roadway
reconstruction or urban redevelopment projects.  It is primarily on
the urban fringes that it is possible to coordinate transportation
system improvements with land development to avoid creating
situations where too much poorly spaced access renders a facility
incapable of effectively serving its traffic-carrying function.
When access management and land use planning are coordinated, it is
possible to ensure that when properties are developed, site designs
are compatible with efficient movement of traffic onto and off of
public roadways and, at the same time, are conducive to pedestrian
movements, bicycle traffic and transit usage.


                                 13





Proper access management, particularly with regard to spacing and
type of access, can also be used as a tool, in conjunction with
proper zoning, to help shape development patterns in a manner
consistent with local community plans and desires.

Ways to Achieve Managed Access

A variety of techniques exist for achieving managed access to
Wisconsin's streets and highways.  Among these are: the purchase of
access rights, controlling the opening of new access points and the
use of land use planning and zoning to control the use of adjacent
lands.  The table below indicates which tools are available to each
level of government.

               STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR MANAGING ACCESS

    Purchased   Statutory              Driveway  Land Use
    Access      Access    Subdivision  Permit    Planning  Official
    Control     Control   Regulations  System    & Zoning  Mapping

State    X          X           X         X                    X

County   X          X           X         X          X         X

City     X                      X         X          X         X

Village  X                      X         X          X         X

Town                            X         X          X         If
                                                          village
                                                          powers
                                                          adopted


The following is a brief summary of each of these techniques. A
more thorough explanation of each can be found in two WisDOT
publications which are available upon request:
"Planned Access:  Protection for Wisconsin's Highways" and "Access
Control," a 1981 WisDOT State Highway Plan Special Report.

                                 14





 1.  Acquisition of Access Rights:  Wisconsin Statutes give the
state, counties, cities and villages the authority to acquire land
and interests in land for certain highway purposes.  This is
generally accomplished through negotiated purchase at the time of
right-of-way acquisition for new highway construction or capacity
expansion.

It is also possible to purchase access restrictions which prohibit
driveways from changing from their current use.  Thus, driveways
could not be changed to a use which would generate additional
movements onto and off of the arterial (i.e. from farm to
residential or from residential to commercial).


2.  Statutory Access Control:  Both WisDOT and counties have the
authority to declare certain roadways as "controlled access
highways" on which they have the right to control ingress and
egress in the interest of public safety, convenience and general
welfare.  This technique works best where access has not yet
acquired value, that is, where development has been rather minimal
and existing access is not yet too great.

     State:  WisDOT can declare as controlled access highways up to
     1500 miles of the rural state highway system where the average
     daily traffic volume exceeds 2000.  When this is done, access
     is "frozen" and no new public roads or private driveways can
     be opened without WisDOT approval, although additional access
     may be allowed if it is judged to be in the public interest.

     Counties:  Counties have the statutory authority to manage
     access on county trunk highways whose traffic volumes exceed
     1000 vehicles per day.  However, controlled access mileage can
     not total more than 35% of total county highway mileage.
     Controls within the corporate limits of cities and villages
     must be approved by those units of government.  After the
     establishment of a controlled-access highway, no public or
     private intersection can be opened without the approval of the
     County Board.

3.  Subdivision Regulations:  This method of managing access is
used by all levels of government.  For land abutting state
highways, WisDOT reviews subdivision plats and grants approval for
access onto the roadway.  Wisconsin Administrative Code (HY 33)
requires that new subdivisions have internal street systems,
sufficient setbacks and no direct access onto highways from
individual lots.  In subdivisions which do not abut state highways,
local governments monitor site plans to assure conformance with
their ordinances.


4.  Driveway Permit System:  State statutes give all levels of
government the authority to require a permit for the construction
of a private driveway onto a public road.  WisDOT uses this
authority to manage access where no other controls exist.  A permit
may be denied if the

                                 15





driveway is planned for an unsafe location or if alternative access
is available.

WisDOT frequently makes the issuance of a driveway permit
contingent upon the signing of a restrictive covenant in which the
property owner agrees not to seek additional access in the future.
This covenant is recorded with the registrar of deeds and is
included in the chain of title to that property.


Click HERE for graphic.


5.  Official Mapping:  As discussed above in relation to corridor
preservation, all levels of government except towns have the
authority to officially map future transportation corridors.  When
a future corridor is officially mapped, the unit of government
having jurisdiction over the roadway has full control over access
to that planned facility.


6.  Land Use Planning and Zoning:  types and intensities of land
uses directly affect traffic volumes on the roadways which serve
them.  More intensely developed land generates not only a high
volume of traffic, but a need for frequent turning movements as
well.  If this traffic is not planned for, the flow of both through
and local traffic is impaired and safety is compromised.

The management of roadway access can be achieved through land-use
actions that direct the use of adjacent properties.  For example,
actions that encourage or require cluster developments instead of
strip zoning can significantly reduce the demand and need for
access points onto the arterial serving the development.

While land use planning and zoning are the responsibilities of
local governments, WisDOT does have the authority to control access
and apply setbacks in subdivisions of lands abutting state
highways.  In all other areas, local officials and planners are
responsible for developing master plans, enforcing zoning
ordinances and reviewing proposed developments.

Cities and villages have plan commissions which are responsible for
developing, adopting

                                 16





and maintaining land use plans, for zoning and for subdivision plat
review.  Towns generally have their own planning and zoning boards
which are responsible for those functions or they may choose to
rely on countywide land use plans and/or adopt a county zoning
ordinance.  In towns which have adopted a county zoning ordinance,
all zoning changes must be approved by the county board.

7.  Corridor Planning:  State statutes which grant the authority
for intergovernmental agreements and cooperative planning among
municipalities provide the basis for multi-jurisdictional corridor
planning efforts which result in the development of cooperative
agreements among participating governmental units.

A corridor plan would specify how corridor preservation could best
be achieved, the type and scale of development which would be
sought/encouraged and a conceptual highway layout showing specific
access locations and frontage roads.  It could recommend the use of
any or all of the above-described techniques for managing access to
the roadway under study.

The plan would then be formally adopted by the participating units
of governments who would agree to cooperatively implement the plan,
any alterations to which would have to be made according to an
established amendment procedure.


WisDOT Access Management System Plan

In 1989, WisDOT developed a plan for managing access on the rural
portions of the state trunk highway system.  The purpose of this
plan was to set forth policies and guidelines which will maintain a
high level of service for through-traffic while, at the same time,
providing reasonable access to abutting properties.  It designates
an approximately 4800-mile system of principal arterial state
highways on which access will be managed.  Although this plan is
primarily rural in focus, it does include some sections of highway
within the peripheral portions of urban areas' It shows where the
state intends to control access points as new development occurs
and consolidate or eliminate existing access as necessary and
feasible when existing developments are significantly changed or
expanded or when roadway reconstruction occurs.


Access Spacing

The techniques discussed above are methods of controlling access
onto roadways.  They do not address the issue of how much access
should be allowed in any given situation.  In other words, they
deal with how to manage access, rather than what to do.
Determining appropriate access spacing presents a complex, and
often difficult, problem.

It is generally accepted that access criteria for signalized and
unsignalized intersections/driveways should reflect the following
general considerations:

                                 17





.    Allowable access should be based on characteristics of both
     the roadway itself (e.g. functional class, facility type,
     speed) and neighboring development (e.g. the type, scale and
     density of existing and planned land uses.)

.    Guidelines should apply to new developments and to significant
     changes in the size or type of existing developments.

.    Access requests that do not conform to the spacing criteria
     may be necessary when no alternative reasonable access is
     available.  However, the higher the class of highway, the less
     deviations from desirable standards should be allowed.

.    Traffic signal spacing for both driveways and at-grade public
     intersections should be related to speed.

.    Locations of signalized at-grade intersections should be
     identified first.  Unsignalized access points should be
     selected within the context of existing and desirable future
     signal locations.

.    Reasonable alternative access should be considered.  However,
     care should be taken to avoid merely transferring the problem
     to another location.

.    Access locations should be consistent with adopted land use
     plans.

While there are accepted standards which deal with the spacing of
signalized intersections, they relate strictly to the efficiency of
traffic flow and to safety on the roadway and do not address issues
related to land use and development.  There is no consensus on
standards for the spacing of unsignalized driveways and
intersections.  Several states, including Wisconsin, have adopted
spacing standards for access to their state highways but each is
based on a different set of parameters and none adequately reflect
relationships between access spacing and land development.

Wisconsin's guidelines, which specify recommended distances between
access points based on facility type, functional type and traffic
volume, relate only to rural routes and, therefore, have limited
application within metropolitan planning boundaries.

While access spacing is an important issue throughout the state, it
is of particular a major concern on the fringes of our urban areas
which are just beginning to experience development pressures.  In
these areas, access management decisions should ideally be made as
part of a multi-jurisdictional corridor planning effort as
described above. (See Page 17.)

However, due to financial, political and time constraints, detailed
corridor plans can not be formulated for all developing arterials.
Therefore, it is desirable that standards be developed to guide
access management decisions which must be made without the benefit
of a corridor planning effort.  Recognizing this need, WisDOT
intends to assess the feasibility of


                                 18






producing spacing standards that consider both the relationship
between access and land use as well as the traditional concerns of
safety, capacity and speed.  If the development of such standards
seems feasible, the Department will undertake a study to produce
guidelines that can be sued to make access management decisions in
rapidly developing areas.

In the interim, based on experience in Wisconsin and elsewhere, the
following guides can be used to suggest a reasonable spacing of
signalized and unsignalized access on both state and local arterial
roadways.  However, they should not be applied if resulting access
locations would conflict with and adopted land use plan for the
area.


Signalized Intersections:  Preserving the quality of traffic flow
and safety requires the spacing of signals that assures continuous,
progressive movement.  Uniform, or near uniform, signal spacing is
necessary for the most efficient traffic flow.  The optimal spacing
of signals depends on cycle length and posted speeds.  Long cycle
lengths combined with high speeds require long distances between
signals.  Shorter cycle lengths and lower speeds enable closer
spacing between signals.  For example, speeds of 40 mph with a 90-
second cycle require signals be located 1/2 apart.  Speeds of 35
mph with a 60-second cycle require a spacing of 1/4 mile.

Unsignalized Intersections/Driveways:

Rural:  In areas within an MPO's 2020 growth boundary where
development has not yet occurred, Wisconsin's rural spacing
standards provide a reasonable guide for the desirable minimum
spacing of access points.  Distances are based on traffic volumes
on both the arterial in question and the intersecting street/drive.
As part of the access spacing analysis discussed above, WisDOT will
re-evaluate these standards, particularly in regard to their use in
and near the fringes of urban areas.

                                                    Driveways
     Rural Highway
     Under Study           Public Streets*     >100 ADT  <100 ADT

     > 500 ADT             2000 feet           1000 feet  1000 feet
     1000-5000 ADT         2000 feet           1000 feet   500 feet
     < 1000 ADT            2000 feet           1000 feet   500 feet

     *  These distances are appropriate for major collectors with
     less than 750 ADT, all minor collectors and all local streets.
     For major collectors with over 750 ADT, all distances (Public
     Streets and Driveways) should read "2000 feet."  It is assumed
     that the location of rural arterials is generally fixed.


                                 19






          Urban:  A 1990 study done for the state of New Jersey
          reviewed current practices for determining the spacing of
          unsignalized intersections and driveways and recommended
          the use of spacing standards based on AASHTO stopping
          sight distances for given posted speeds.  While these
          standards do not reflect all factors that should ideally
          be considered, they do provide a reasonable interim guide
          for determining the minimum spacing between
          intersections/driveways on arterial roadways.

                    Posted Speed          Minimum Stopping
                       (mph)               Sight Distance
                                               (Feet)

                        25                       150
                        30                       200
                        35                       250
                        40                       325
                        45                       400
                        50                       475
                        55                       550


Design/Engineering Techniques to Manage Access

There are also several commonly used techniques for regulating
traffic flow which are useful for managing access in higher volume
areas, often where a good deal of development has already occurred.
These techniques are frequently used in combination with other
access management tools, but are also useful when excessive access
exists and it is not possible to close access points.  Techniques
include signing and marking, building medians and frontage roads,
prohibiting turning movements, and installing traffic signals.


MPO Role in Access Management

Metropolitan transportation plans should include an element which
focuses on the need for and development of managed access within
their areas.  Specifically, MPOs should:

ß Be an advocate for access management efforts.

     .    MPOs should be an advocate for the need to manage access
          on arterial roadways within their areas.  As with
          corridor preservation, they should raise the issue with
          local officials, developers, the public and even WisDOT
          and aggressively work to ensure coordination of
          development and transportation needs.

                                 20





     .    The need for/benefits of access management should be
          discussed in newsletters and with the public to make them
          aware of the importance of considering existing and
          future transportation needs when making development
          decisions.

ß  Identify the system where access should be managed and establish
 priorities for management efforts.

     .    Each MPO should assess the degree to which access
          management is currently being used in their areas by
          state, county and local jurisdictions.

     .    Efforts should be made to achieve managed access on all
          arterials and rural major collectors within the 2020
          growth boundary, recognizing that it will be in the
          developing areas toward the peripheries of urbanized
          areas that access management can successfully preserve
          the traffic-carrying capacity and functional integrity of
          a highway and improve the safety of motorists, bicyclists
          and pedestrians.

     .    Attention should be especially focused where there is
          immediate or incipient development pressure.

     .    Future development pressures should be monitored and
          priority given to those areas where pressures have begun.


ß  Develop access management strategies.

     .    MPOs should encourage counties to develop access
          management plans on the basis of which they will declare
          certain roadways to be controlled access facilities.

     .    MPOs should work with WisDOT to achieve controls where
          needed and help ensure that any additional access allowed
          is in keeping with longer range land use/transportation
          plans.  On all state highways, but on Corridors 2020
          routes in particular, MPOs should assist WisDOT by
          identifying "hot spots" where immediate action is needed.

     .    MPOs should encourage all units of government to use the
          access management tools that are available to them.  The
          following is a list of what access management
          techniques/strategies are likely to be most appropriate
          in given situations.


                                 21






Location                   State Highways        Local Roadways

Rural Areas     New        Purchased Control     Purchased Control
within 2020     Routes     Official Mapping      Official Mapping
Growth
Boundary       Existing    Purchased Control     Purchased Control
               Routes      Statutory Control     Statutory Control
                                                 (Counties only)


Developing     New         Purchased Control     Purchased Control
Urban          Routes      Statutory Control     Statutory Control
Fringe                                           (Counties only)

               Existing    Purchased Control     Purchased Control
               Routes      Subdivision Reg's     Subdivision Reg's
                           Design/Engineering    Design/Engineering


Developed      New         Purchased Control     Purchased Control
Areas          Routes

               Existing    Design/Engineering   Design/Engineering
               Routes      Driveway Permits       Driveway Permits


ß  Monitor and document the progress of access management efforts.
     .    MPOs should monitor the progress and success of access
          management efforts.  The results should be discussed in
          MPO newsletters and included in future metropolitan
          plans.

ß  Work with communities, WisDOT and developers to achieve managed
access.
     .    MPOs should play a leadership role in initiating and
          facilitating the sort of corridor planning process
          outlined above.  In areas identified as experiencing
          current or imminent development pressures, MPOs should
          bring together local units of government and WisDOT (if a
          state highway is involved) to formulate a detailed
          corridor preservation, access management and land use
          plan for the highway segment.  This process (though
          without the corridor preservation aspect) has been
          successfully undertaken in several southeastern Wisconsin
          locations.

     .    MPOs should work with local units of government and
          developers to achieve adequate site planning for new
          developments to minimize the number of access points onto
          arterial roadways and devise access plans that are
          compatible with roadway function.

     .    MPOs should also advocate the implementation of design
          concepts which help achieve better management of roadway
          access.  As stated above, these techniques include
          signing and marking, building medians and frontage roads,
          prohibiting turning movements, and installing traffic
          signals.

                                 22





                                                           WISCONSIN
                                                       TRANSLINKS 21





FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THIS TOPIC, CONTACT:

DOUGLAS F. DALTON
CHIEF, URBAN SYSTEM PLANNING
WISCONSIN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
P.O. BOX 7913
MADISON, WI 53707-7913
608/266-3662

FOR ADDITIONAL COPIES, CALL:

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS, 608/266/3581

.


                                (00223.html)
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 Jump To Top
