http://www.coast2050.gov/barrier_island.htm

                               [LAsmall3a.gif]

   [2050logo.jpg]
   [listtop.gif]

                           One Voice, One Mission



   Public Area
   Event Calendar
   Study Milestones
   Maps
   Reports
   Press Releases
   Survey
   Related Links
   Request Info
   Points of Contact
   LA Wetland Values
   [listbottom.GIF]
   [space.gif]

   [listtop.gif]
   Technical Area

                                (restricted)

   [listbottom.GIF]


   [left_tip.gif] Barrier Shoreline Restoration [right_tip.gif]

   The Barrier Shoreline Restoration aspect of the Louisiana Coastal Area,
   Louisiana Ecosystem Restoration: Barrier Island Restoration, Marsh
   Creation, and River Diversion, Barataria Basin Feasibility Study, is
   investigating the restoration of the barrier islands and barrier
   shorelines in the Barataria Basin in Louisiana.
   Purpose:
   The overarching goal of the Coast 2050 Plan is to sustain a coastal
   ecosystem that supports and protects the environment, economy, and
   culture of southern Louisiana, and contributes greatly to the economy
   and well being of the nation. The purpose of the Coast 2050 strategies
   for the Barataria Basin is to restore and/or protect the natural and
   human environment to create a sustainable ecosystem in the Barataria
   Basin within the context of the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem, including
   coastal Louisiana. This aspect of the study investigates barrier
   shoreline strategy R2-22 of the Coast 2050 Plan for the Barataria
   Basin. The purpose of this investigation is to develop projects to
   provide and sustain the typical ecological attributes (unique
   arrangement of habitats including shallow intertidal zone, beach,
   dunes, back marsh, bays, and passes) of the barrier islands, headlands,
   and shoreline in the Barataria Basin.
   Action Area:
   The barrier shoreline system in Barataria Basin begins about 72 km (45
   miles) northwest of the mouth of the Mississippi River (Southwest Pass)
   and forms a concave arch with respect to the Gulf of Mexico at the
   southern end of the Barataria Basin. Barrier islands, headlands, and
   shoreline offer unique ecological characteristics with an array of
   intertidal bottoms, beaches, dunes, shrub thickets, maritime forests,
   and salt marshes not present in interior wetlands. The assemblage of
   plants and animals is different than can be found in any other area of
   the basin or in Louisiana. Some of the species are endemic to barrier
   areas. A variety of seabirds, wading birds, and shore birds such as
   black skimmer, reddish egret, piping plover, and least tern utilize
   barrier islands. The islands serve as resting areas for migrating
   birds, nesting locations for birds such as brown pelican, and possible
   nesting beaches for sea turtles, as well as providing unique habitats
   for many fish species.
   The barrier shoreline in Barataria Basin from Bayou Lafourche to Sandy
   Point has undergone significant movement and reduction in size during
   the past 100 years. While some lateral movement of the shoreline is
   expected as sand is reworked in the nearshore environment, the
   shoreline has retreated rapidly. Tidal passes that have opened in the
   islands during the passage of storms have not resealed in fair weather.
   Increase of the tidal prism of Barataria Bay, which has occurred as a
   result of wetland losses in the Barataria Basin, has amplified the
   barrier shoreline loss rate. Islands have diminished in size (narrowed)
   to the point that they are likely to vanish in the near future. For
   example, it is predicted that Grand Terre Island may be gone by 2008
   (Reed et al. 1995). Overall, the Barataria barrier islands decreased in
   area by 47 percent from the 1890s to 1988.
   The Caminada-Moreau Headland, forming the western portion of the
   Barataria barrier system, has experienced some of the highest rates of
   shoreline movement on the Louisiana or Gulf coast. Between 1978 and
   1988, the coast retreated at a rate of 13.6 meters/year (45 ft/yr). The
   shoreline has retreated over 1.6 km (1 mile) in some locations from
   1887-1988 (Williams et al. 1992). The Plaquemines Barrier System in the
   eastern portion of the system retreated at an average rate of 5.5
   meters/year (18 ft/yr) from 1884-1988. In 1884, Grand Terre Island was
   1,699 hectares (4,193 acres) with an average width of 909 meters (2,982
   ft), but by 1988, it was only 513 hectares (1,266 acres) with an
   average width of 530 meters (1,739 ft). In 1884, Shell Island was 127
   hectares (313 acres) with a width of 136 meters (446 ft). In 1988, it
   was 69 hectares (170 acres) and 105 meters (345 ft) in width (Williams
   et al. 1992). The shoreline has retreated 0.8 to 1.2 km (0.5-0.75
   miles) over a large part of the Plaquemines Barrier System.
   Many of the barrier shoreline areas in Barataria Basin have become
   nothing more than fragmented, low mounds of sand, easily washed over by
   minor storm events, and provide poorer habitat than fully developed
   barrier islands. As the barrier shorelines become narrower and
   disintegrate, bays and wetlands behind them become more directly
   connected with the Gulf of Mexico. This exposes the more fragile
   landscape features to higher wave action and higher salinity water.
   The study area is located in Lafourche, Jefferson, and Plaquemines
   parishes, and includes the barrier shorelines, barrier islands, passes,
   and back marshes from Belle Pass on the west to Sandy Point on the
   east. In addition to creating valuable habitat for wading birds,
   waterfowl, fishes, migratory neotropical songbirds, shrimp, crabs, and
   other organisms, the proposed action provides other advantages:

   1.   The proposed alternatives potentially provide a low risk and
   quickly implementable plan to address coastal land loss in the
   Barataria Basin;

   2.   The proposed alternatives are strategically placed in the study
   area and could potentially yield benefits to other coastal resources
   within the unique Barataria Basin ecosystem, and the human
   infrastructure associated with transportation, oil and gas extraction,
   utilities, etc.;

   3.   The proposed alternatives could be implemented independently of
   the remaining Coast 2050 Plan strategies for the Barataria Basin.

   During the Coast 2050 public meetings conducted in 1998, Strategy R2-22
   Restore/Maintain Barrier Headlands, Islands, and Shorelines, was
   considered a viable ecosystem restoration strategy. Hence, this
   strategy will be developed into alternatives for the potential action.
   Other alternatives that will be considered include the No Action
   Alternative, alternatives presented in the Barrier Shoreline
   Feasibility Study, and alternatives developed during the scoping
   process. Alternative plans developed will investigate sand nourishment,
   dune restoration, beach restoration, back marsh restoration, shoreline
   stabilization, vegetative planting, or combinations thereof.
   Barrier shoreline restoration design features will be evaluated to
   ensure compliance with current Federal and State laws and regulations.
   Any adverse effects of the alternative plans will be identified and
   appropriate mitigation measures will be included in the plans. However,
   because the proposed action is ecosystem restoration, it is not the
   intent to generate alternative plans that would require mitigation. An
   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared during the
   feasibility phase because of the potential for significant direct and
   indirect, secondary, and cumulative impacts on the human and natural
   environment.
   References:
   Reed, D.J., E.M. Swenson, and J.G. Gosselink. 1995. Physical Setting.
   D.J. Reed (ed.) pp. 9-23. In: Status and Trends of Hydrological
   Modification, Reduction in Sediment Availability, and Habitat
   Loss/Modification in the Barataria-Terrebonne Estuarine System. BTNEP
   No. 20. Barataria Terrebonne National Estuary Program, Thibodaux, LA.
   Williams, S.J., S. Penland, A.H. Sallenger, Jr. (eds.) 1992. Atlas of
   shoreline changes in Louisiana from 1853-1989. U.S. Geological Survey,
   Reston, VA.


   Barrier Shoreline Restoration Notice of Intent - Federal Register:
   April 28, 2000 (text)

   Barrier Shoreline Restoration Notice of Intent - Federal Register:
   April 28, 2000 (PDF 138 KB)

   Barrier Shoreline Scoping Report (PDF 1.31 MB)



                         [left_tip.gif] Project Components [right_tip.gif]

                       Click to see full size (190KB)
        Barrier Shoreline Restoration from Belle Pass to Sandy Point

                       Click to see full size (226KB)
                Wetland Creation in southwest Barataria Basin



                         Coast2050 Feasibility Study
     New Orleans District of the US Army Corps of Engineers   Louisiana
                       Department of Natural Resources
    Site Maintained by US Geological Survey - National Wetlands Research
                                   Center

     Please report problems with this site to coast2050@condor.nwrc.gov
