http://hr.arc.nasa.gov/associate.html

   skip header bar

   HR Info Employment


                           AMES ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

                         (Guest Workers/Volunteers)

                                  OVERVIEW

   The Ames Associate Program is a voluntary/unpaid program designed for
       individuals who wish to donate their services to NASA-Ames Research
       Center for the mutual benefit of Ames and themselves. Ames
       Associates perform services for Ames without any compensation,
       (directly or indirectly). The title "Ames Associate," (Guest
       Worker), is associated primarily with an individual who has a
       unique background and can make a major contribution to an
       established, ongoing, scientific program at Ames. This program also
       permits the Associate to utilize unique Ames facilities and work in
       their chosen field with experienced and eminent research
       scientists. Ames Associates are normally United States Citizens or
       Permanent Residents, (registered immigrant aliens), although
       Foreign Nationals may donate services if proper external approvals
       are obtained.

     * The research must be in an area which is not considered advanced
       and/or sensitive, and access to such information is not required in
       order to perform the research.
     * The Ames Associate research visit usually ranges from two months to
       a year in order to maximize the benefit both to NASA and to the
       Associate.
     * Work should be scheduled during regular duty hours. Ames Associates
       may not work prior to approval and processing by the Human
       Resources Division.
     * An Ames Associate Sponsor must be a NASA Federal employee (can not
       be an Army or Contractor employee).

   arrow For further information, please contact Karen Tanner:

                   Phone:        (650) 604-6987
                  E-mail:   ktanner@mail.arc.nasa.gov
                    Fax:         (650) 604-3622
                  Address: NASA-Ames Research Center
                                Human Resources Division
                              Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000
                                     U.S.A.

   skip bottom navigation bar

        NASA Home  |  Ames Research Center Home  |  Ames Research Center
                            Human Resources Home

   NASA logo Last Modified: 11/5/2001
   Responsible Official: NASA Ames Human Resources Officer
   Webmaster: hrweb@mail.arc.nasa.gov
