http://www.presidiotrust.gov/park/

   The Presidio Trust Logo (Link to Home)
   Link to the Park
   Link to the Trust
   Link to the News
   Link to Sustainability
   Link to Leasing
   Link to Presidio Community
   Link to Library
   Link to Postings
   Link to Contact Us
   Link to Employment
   Link to Events
   Link to Getting to the Park
   Link to Web Site Map
   Link to Links
   Link to Search
   Link to e-Mail List

   THE PARK

   The Park

   Archeology | Coastline | Current Park Projects | Environmental Clean-up
     Golden Gate National Recreation Area | History | Historic Buildings |
                                                        Historic Landscape
           National Park Service Presidio of San Francisco | Park Planning
      Natural Areas | Park Preservation| Public Programming | Recreation |
                                                              Scenic Views


            The Presidio is a park of uncommon beauty and history
                  in the heart of a flourishing urban area.

   The Presidio of San Francisco is part of the Golden Gate National
   Recreation Area
   and the national park system.


   The park:

     * spans 1,480 acres from the Pacific Ocean to the San Francisco Bay
     * boasts spectacular views, a diverse ecosystem, a dynamic shoreline
       and historic forests
     * is the home of a dozen native plant communities and several rare
       animal species
     * is a National Historic Landmark District, the highest level of
       historic designation
     * borders the largest chain of marine sanctuaries in the northern
       hemisphere
     * boasts structures from every major military construction period
       since 1848
     * was the oldest continuously operated military post in the nation


     Graphic depicting a collage of images representative of the Presidio.
     Images include a view of the Golden Gate Bridge, the ocean and beach,
     an adobe building, yellow flowers in bloom, a wooded area and forest.

     The Presidio Trust manages the park in partnership with the National
   Park Service. The Trust has jurisdiction over the interior 80 percent
   of the Presidio, including nearly all of its historic structures. The
   National Park Service manages coastal areas.


                                 Map of the
                    Golden Gate National Recreation Area


                                   Map of
                                Areas A and B

    Picture of a map of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area - Click
                      Picture for larger view of image

   Picture of a map of area A and area B of the Presidio - Click on image
                             for a larger view.

            (Click on the image for a larger version of the map.)

            (Click on the image for a larger version of the map.)
