http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/wp0207reagan.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

                                               search_but.jpg (3066 bytes)

     Bush, Lawmakers Salute Reagan as He Turns 90; Wife Cites Support in
                            Ordeal of Alzheimer's

                             The Washington Post

   February 07, 2001

   By Thomas B. Edsall
   Former president Ronald Reagan turned 90 yesterday, suffering from
   Alzheimer's disease and under the constant care of his wife and a nurse
   at his home in Los Angeles.
   "It's just a day. I mean every day is just a day," Nancy Reagan told
   NBC when asked how she and her husband will celebrate the former
   president's birthday. "Christmas is just a day. New Year's is just a
   day."
   Still, President Bush and numerous Republican lawmakers took the
   occasion as an opportunity to pay tribute to the nation's 40th
   president.
   "You came here at a time when our country needed confidence. You told
   us we could be strong again, at home and abroad. And when you left, we
   were," Bush said in a videotaped tribute to Reagan for broadcast last
   night on CNN's "Larry King Live."
   The House passed a resolution by a 410 to 0 vote yesterday extending
   birthday greetings to the former president as well as one naming a post
   office in Melbourne, Fla., after him.
   House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) added to the tribute by
   introducing a bill that would preserve Reagan's boyhood home in Dixon,
   Ill., as a federal historic site. "Ronald Reagan will go down in
   history as one of our greatest presidents," Hastert said. "We have a
   special responsibility to protect and preserve his legacy for future
   generations."
   Other House members, especially those in the California delegation,
   praised the military build-up and tax cuts that were the centerpieces
   of Reagan's tenure in the White House from 1981 to 1989.
   Reagan arrived in Washington 20 years ago "a brave and idealistic man,"
   said Rep. Christopher Cox (R-Calif.), who worked in the Reagan White
   House. "Since that time, it's pretty clear that Washington has really
   seen his light. . . . Mr. President, I'm happy to tell you, your
   message has sunk in. We are all Reaganites now."
   Cox defended Reagan against the main criticism of his administration:
   that his call for increased military spending in combination with large
   tax cuts resulted in record-setting deficits. Tax revenue "more than
   doubled," Cox told colleagues, and "it was runaway spending in
   Congress" that pushed the budget deep into the red.
   The recent publication of material that Reagan wrote before he became
   president, in the book "Reagan In His Own Hand," has enhanced Reagan's
   intellectual reputation in the view of a number of analysts.
   "In these writings, mostly radio speeches Reagan wrote between 1975 and
   1979, his intelligence is rarely in doubt," Reagan biographer Lou
   Cannon said in a Washington Post review. David Brooks, writing in the
   New York Times, concluded: "One of the things these commentaries do is
   blow apart the notion that Reagan was a flighty actor who floated
   through the presidency on the basis of charm and communication skills."
   Reagan, who broke his hip on Jan. 12, does not recognize old friends
   and does not have a conscious understanding of his presidency. "He
   deals with it," Nancy Reagan said. "I mean, Ronnie is very obliging if
   you ask him to do something -- he'll do it, you know. He, he may not
   understand why he's doing it, but he'll do it."
   After Reagan's hip surgery, more than 10,000 people sent him cards,
   letters and e-mails. "With that kind of support and so many prayers,
   we're able to get through this ordeal one day at a time," his wife told
   the Associated Press. "I've been blessed with an irreplaceable support
   system of doctors, nurses, staff and Secret Service agents. I don't
   know what I would do without them."
   On Nov. 5, 1994, Reagan withdrew from public life after he disclosed
   that he had Alzheimer's. In a letter to "My Fellow Americans," he
   wrote: "I intend to live the remainder of the years God gives me on
   this earth doing the things I have always done. I will continue to
   share life's journey with my beloved Nancy and my family. . . .
   Unfortunately, as Alzheimer's disease progresses, the family often
   bears a heavy burden. I only wish there was some way I could spare
   Nancy from this painful experience. . . .
   "When the Lord calls me home, whenever that may be, I will leave with
   the greatest love for this country of ours and eternal optimism for its
   future. I now begin the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my
   life. I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn
   ahead."
