http://www.aphis.usda.gov/ppd/rad/script.pdf

   ANIMAL DISEASE RISK ASSESSMENT, PREVENTION, AND CONTROL ACT PUBLIC
   HEARING U.S. Department of Agriculture September 28, 2001 4700 River
   Road Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1238 9:00 o'clock, a.m. * * * * * * *
   REPORTED BY: Lisa Dennis P R O C E E D I N G S MR. MACHEEL: Good
   morning and welcome to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's hearing on
   Public Law 107-9, the Animal Disease Risk Assessment, Prevention, and
   Control Act. My name is Bill Macheel and I'm a Program Analyst with
   APHIS' Policy and Program Development staff, and I've been asked to be
   the presiding officer at this hearing today. The purpose of today's
   meeting is to give interested persons an opportunity to provide
   suggestions and comments regarding development of the final reports
   required by the Act. The report will discuss the risks and impacts
   associated with the potential introduction of foot and mouth disease,
   bovine spongiform encephalopathy or BSE and other diseases related to
   BSE and the report will also make recommendations on how to deal with
   the risks of those diseases to public health and animal health. The
   Secretary of Agriculture has formed an Interagency Working Group to
   help develop this report, and several members of that group are here
   today to listen to your comments and suggestions. I'll be introducing
   them in a few minutes. Your comments today, as well as any written or
   electronic comments we receive prior to the close of the comment period
   on October 9, 2001, will be thoroughly considered by the Interagency
   Working Group as it writes its report. Now let me go over how we will
   proceed with the hearing today. As presiding officer, I will announce
   each registered speaker who has requested to make a statement, and
   after all the registered speakers have been called, any unregistered
   speakers who would like to make a statement will be given the
   opportunity to do so. Please, before commencing your remarks, if you
   could state and spell your last name for the benefit of the court
   reporter from Hunt Reporting, who will be transcribing all of the
   comments made today, and also, we ask that anyone who reads a prepared
   statement provide me with a copy of that statement and a copy of the
   transcript will be posted on the APHIS internet website at our
   http://comments.aphis.usda.gov address, and that will be done in
   approximately 15 working days. A copy of the transcript shall also be
   made available for public inspection, as part of the public record, at
   the APHIS reading room, which is at -- in room 1141 of the USDA South
   Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue in Washington, D.C. I'd
   also like to mention that anyone who is providing testimony today will
   have the opportunity to ask clarifying questions about the provisions
   of the Act and to direct those questions to the Interagency Group
   members present today. Other than responding to questions about the
   Act, itself, or how the report is being developed, the group is here
   only to listen to what you have to say, and they are not planning to
   discuss today the issues that you bring up concerning the diseases, but
   will definitely consider them as they write the report. Today's hearing
   is scheduled to end at 12:00 noon. I may conclude the hearing before
   then if all persons who have registered to participate have been heard
   and there are no other person who wish to speak. Also, if necessary, I
   may limit the time for each presentation so that everyone is
   accommodated and all interested persons have an opportunity to
   participate. As we move through the presentations by the -- by you this
   morning, I may announce any time limitations or other procedural rules
   for the conduct of today's hearing if I see that it is necessary. Also,
   if an individual's comments do not relate to the stated purpose of the
   hearing, which is to present comments or questions about PL 107-9, it
   will be necessary for me to ask that person to focus his or her
   comments accordingly. Okay, before concluding my remarks, I'd like to
   introduce the members of the Interagency Working Group seated here in
   front of the room. To our left here, is Dr. Alfonso Torres, Deputy
   Administrator for Veterinary Services of the Animal Health Inspection
   Service. Next is Dr. Daniel Engeljohn of the Regulations and Directives
   Staff at the Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA, and that -- and
   the far end is Dr. Murray Lumpkin, Senior Medical Advisor to the Deputy
   Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. Okay. I will now call
   on the first registered speaker to come up to the podium and provide
   your comments to the public record, and I believe that first person is
   Dr. Beth Lautner, Vice President, National Pork Board, and Beth for the
   benefit of the court reporter, if you could speak directly into the
   microphone. DR. LAUTNER: My name is Beth Lautner, L-A-U-T-N-E-R. Thank
   you. I am pleased to have the opportunity to present these oral
   comments on behalf of the National Pork Board for consideration in your
   report to Congress. I'm Dr. Beth Lautner. I'm a veterinarian with the
   National Pork Board and have responsibilities for swine health issues,
   foreign and emerging animal diseases. The National Pork Board is a body
   created by Congress and is responsible for the collection, distribution
   and program accountability for the pork checkoff. The area of swine
   health and Foreign Animal Disease prevention falls within the purview
   of our activities under -- general. I'm very interested -- our
   organization is very interested in topic of this hearing as well as
   myself, personally. I've served on the Secretary's Advisory Committee
   for Foreign Animal Diseases, The National Animal Health Emergency
   management Steering Committee as well as chaired committees related to
   swine health. I've also worked on Animal Health Safeguarding Review.
   I'd like to start my oral comments by first commending APHIS for its
   past commitment to animal health safeguarding and then the recent level
   of activities that have been heightened in regard to the world
   situation with regard to foot and mouth disease. I think we should
   recognize that our current health status is a result of the dedication
   of the personnel at the State and Federal level and our current
   policies that have been in place, that have provided the protection
   that we have today. The oral I comments I make will be provided --
   supplemented by more detailed written comments. I just would like to
   emphasize that it is very significant -- Foreign Animal Disease is
   extremely significant to the pork industry. The economic impact would
   be severe, and these economic impacts would affect not just the
   producers, but other parts of the chain. The agricultural related
   businesses, the trade balancing consumers as well, and there is many
   documented studies that talk about the economic impacts of Foreign
   Animal Diseases in other countries as well as the data that we have for
   scenarios that have been done in the U.S., and I would encourage those
   economic analyses to be included in the report. Both from the other
   countries, as well as the scenario planning that's been done in this
   country. We also would see, for the agriculture related businesses --
   there's serious affects on the feed industry, livestock markets,
   packers, pharmaceutical companies, and private practitioners. One of
   the serious economic consequences of a Foreign Animal Disease is the
   immediate stop of export markets, and this is very serious to the
   livestock industry. The pork industry -- we export more than a billion
   dollars, annually. We're the second largest exporter of pork in the
   world. We recognize that Foreign Animal Disease would result in the
   loss of those markets, virtually, overnight. We've had some economic
   studies done and will provide that information on that as well, and
   recognize that there are -- in addition to that eradication issues and
   possible eradication -- there are other issues, environmental issues,
   wildlife effects and social effects. Those areas, should also be
   highlighted in your report to congress to make sure there is an
   understanding of the scope of a Foreign Animal Disease encouraging in
   this country. As far as risks -- the comments I would like to make on
   risks wold be that many would view the risk as increasing. We have many
   international visitors. We also have many producers that travel to
   other parts of the world to look at pork operations, and we have -- we
   host many tours in this country, as well. Many veterinarians, animal
   scientists, and students travel around the world and come back on farms
   very shortly. With free trade agreements, there is increased trade, and
   there is an increased potential for a problem to be brought in that way
   as well. Also, the illegal importation of animals or animal products is
   an area of concern. Also, we would like to see the report address the
   potential for bioterrorism to animal populations. With regard to
   recommendations, I'd like to bring forward a few. International
   surveillance is very important. We must know what's going on with
   regard to diseases in other countries. We must make sure we have the
   expertise in animal health to gather this information and process it.
   We also -- important to provide assistance to other countries to help
   them deal with a disease in their country, and I think a good example
   is what's been done with the UK. Providing veterinarians to the UK
   provides hands-on expertise and assistance as well, to the countries.
   With regard to import policies and inspection procedures, we need to
   make sure that when we set import policies in place, that we have a
   verification of activities to follow along with those, as well. There
   should be an annual report that would be provided on how these
   verifications are taking place, conducted and taking place, as well as
   evaluating compliance with passage of cargo mail inspection protocols.
   With regard to import policies, it's very important that we have a risk
   assessment capabilities in this country with multi-disciplinary teams
   to accomplish those in a timely fashion. With regard to research -- to
   help prevent a Foreign Animal Disease, it's important that there's
   close coordination between APHIS and ARS on both short-term and
   long-term research needs. This is an area that I think needs enhanced
   working. As far as surveillance in this country, on the domestic side,
   we need to have a risk- based domestic surveillance program for Foreign
   Animal Diseases. We need to look at how to tie in our State Veterinary
   Diagnostic Labs as well. Emergency planning and test exercises. I think
   we've seen a lot of activity. I participated and other producers have
   participated in many test exercises. I think we're seeing very good
   efforts to coordinate our National response with our State and Local
   response and use the emergency management agencies that are available
   in the state. We need to continue those and to continue more test
   exercises on different diseases and more scenario planning and
   assistance to states in state-based exercises. Training and awareness
   is a continual process and we need to continually train our emergency
   responders, and develop awareness programs for producers,
   practitioners, allied industry policy makers and the general public.
   With regard to response, I mentioned, I think, there is very
   significant efforts with emergency management agencies and they need to
   continue in development of response plans. An area that is important as
   we have people responding to a Foreign Animal Disease in this country,
   would be to also have a group that's looking at how we can regionalize
   our country and be able to resume trade as quickly as is possible and
   safe. I think plans need to be made now on how we would regionalize our
   country with regard to disease status. How and who would, specifically,
   work in that area. As far as recovery from a Foreign Animal Disease, it
   is important to have, ahead of time, an understanding of what the
   compensation would be for producers for losses to Foreign Animal
   Disease. There is many issues that are under debate and discussion,
   including compensation issues involved with vaccination for Foreign
   Animal Diseases, pre-emptive control measures, and animal welfare
   measures that need to be taken -- restrictions. It's very important
   that the government plans for compensation and other opportunities for
   assistance to producers are clarified, prior to the incursion of
   Foreign Animal Disease. One of the questions is related to what are
   other groups doing, the non-profit and private sector groups, we'll be
   submitting comments. What we've been doing as far as the National Pork
   Board, our activities that focused on national coordination, working
   with USDA and state groups. Working in the Animal Health Safeguarding
   Review and participating in the Foreign Animal Disease test exercises.
   We also are developing plans to -- together State Pork Producers, State
   Veterinarians, and USDA to talk through some very specific pork issues,
   as well. With regard to research, we have provided limited funding with
   checkoff dollars for foot and mouth disease research and have
   participated in the reviews of the programs. We also recognize the need
   for new facilities for the National Veterinary Services Laboratories,
   National Animal Disease Center and Center for Veterinary Biologics and
   the continued modernization of Plum Island. With regard to education,
   we have been involved in many efforts, videos, brochures, press
   releases, a variety of measures to get information out to producers and
   veterinarians about Foreign Animal Diseases and biosecurity
   precautions. We've done mailings to over 100,000 producers to get
   information directly to them, as well as the American Association of
   Swine Veterinarians, and have created a spot on the website to provide
   information on Foreign Animal Diseases and biosecurity. And, to
   conclude, with regard to private and public sector partnerships, the
   National Pork Board has been active in the National Animal Health
   Emergency Management System Steering Committee, which is a partnership
   with State and Federal, industry, veterinary societies to look at
   Foreign Animal Diseases. This group was formed in 1996 and has worked
   closely together to have each partner recognize their responsibilities
   in prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery to a Foreign Animal
   Disease. I would recommend that a strategic plan that has seven action
   guidelines, that's been developed by this group, be submitted to
   Congress, as well. It has very detailed objectives and activities that
   need to take place for Foreign Animal Disease prevention and response,
   and I think there's some value to adding that to the report. Also, the
   Secretary's Advisory Committee Report from August of 2000, had 15
   recommendations. They should be reviewed for their relevancy to be
   submitted into the report as well. I would just conclude with -- that a
   Foreign Animal Disease is -- introduction is very significant. It is
   something that would be devastating to the industry, and we very much
   want to see the proper precautions put in place to prevent the
   introduction, and if there was one, to respond quickly. MR. MACHEEL:
   Thank you. Do you have a copy of your testimony? Thanks. Okay. The next
   speaker that was signed up was Ross Hamilton, Darling International. Is
   he here? MR. HAMILTON: Thank you. I'm Dr. Ross Hamilton,
   H-A-M-I-L-T-O-N. I'm Director of Research and Nutritional Services for
   Darling International, Incorporated. Darling International is one of
   the largest independent rendering companies in the United States,
   operating facilities in 22 different states. Darling is also a member
   of the National Renderers Association, the American Protein Producers
   Industry and the Fats and Proteins Research Foundation. The National
   Renderers Association, as well as the American Protein Producers
   Industry will also be submitting written comments. It is the opinion of
   Darling International that any plan developed by the Department of --
   to prevent and contain Foreign Animal Diseases must first recognize the
   importance of the rendering industry in disease prevention, control,
   and eradication efforts, and secondly, regulate the disposition of dead
   animals and unprocessed viscera, bone, fat trim, meat trim, blood,
   feathers and other animal products or by-products that are deemed to be
   inedible or unsuitable for human consumption, and these, for the rest
   of my presentation will be referred to, collectively, as raw materials.
   Each year the United States rendering industry provides a vital service
   to society by removing and processing the more than 50 billion pounds
   of animal and poultry by-products generated by the livestock, poultry,
   and meat processing and retail meat industries. Unprocessed raw
   materials contain more than 60% water, on average. Most of this water
   is removed by the rendering process, which markedly reduces the volume
   to approximately 18 billion pounds, making it easier to use or dispose
   of. The principal finished rendered products are fats and proteins,
   which at the present time are used primarily in animal feed and
   oleochemical industries around the world. Without the rendering
   industry, raw materials would accumulate and seriously impede the
   entire meat production and poultry processing industries. These
   materials would have to be discarded or disposed of in community
   landfills, incinerators, or worse, left in illegal dumping sites, which
   potentially would cause public health hazard. Properly prepared, the
   volume of raw materials generated in one year in this country would
   take up more than 25% of the existing landfill space available. The
   rendering industry does not collect and process all of the raw
   materials produced in this country, which is a potential concern. This
   problem may be further exacerbated because a growing percentage is
   disposed of in an unprocessed state. Raw materials are being improperly
   disposed of in garbage bins destined for landfills, road ditches, or
   waterways in sparsely populated areas and compost piles, operated by
   unlicensed individuals. The prevailing commodity market and economic
   conditions within the animal production, meats and rendering industries
   precipitated this trend. Unless properly processed in a timely manner,
   raw materials provide an excellent environment for disease causing
   organisms to grow and potentially threaten animal health, human health
   and the environment. If allowed to accumulate and decompose unchecked,
   these tissues would become a substantial biohazard, promoting disease,
   attracting and harboring rodents, insects, scavengers and other
   recognized disease vectors and attracting predatory animals into
   densely populated areas. Except for incineration, which is cost
   prohibitive and environmentally unsuitable, the alternatives to
   rendering for the disposal of raw materials do not provide adequate
   biosecurity. The origin and ultimate disposition of raw materials are
   not traceable when methods other than rendering are used. This is
   problematic when attempting to prevent, control or eradicate any
   disease. Only rendering companies are held accountable and required to
   document and maintain written records suitable for government agencies
   to trace raw materials back to their source as well as trace finished
   products forward to the end-user, and this is provided -- mandated by
   the FDA in 21 CFR 589.2000. Domestic and wild animals may contract
   disease from unprocessed or improperly processed raw materials. Direct
   or individual exposure to improperly buried dead animals and run-off
   from compost piles and landfills are some of the routes of potential
   exposure. When raw materials derived from ruminant animals are disposed
   of by methods other than rendering, their disposition is not regulated
   and the potential exists for cattle and other ruminant animals to be
   exposed to materials prohibited by the FDA in 21 CFR 589.2000. For
   example, spreading composted raw materials, of ruminant animal origin,
   on land used for grazing and or hay production is permissible under the
   current regulations. The only way to insure that raw materials are
   biosecure is to regulate their disposition and require that licensed
   rendering companies or other appropriate regulated entities collect,
   transport and process these materials. Darling International and the US
   rendering industry take biosecurity very seriously and recognize that
   rendering has a pivotal role in protecting animal, as well as human
   life. Darling International, Incorporated and the US rendering industry
   fully support the current BSE prevention efforts developed by the FDA,
   APHIS and other Federal agencies, even though no case of BSE has ever
   been ever found in the US. Rendering facilities are permitted and
   licensed by the states in which they operate to collect, transport and
   process raw materials. State and Federal agencies routinely inspect
   rendering facilities for compliance to applicable regulations, finished
   product safety and feed ingredient quality. Only the rendering industry
   has the necessary infrastructure in place to allow traceability of raw
   materials, finished products and by-products and insure compliance to
   Federal and State regulations and tolerances. Full-service rendering
   companies are fully-capable of handling raw materials as well as
   assisting in animal disease prevention, containment and eradication.
   The rendering industry is an effective method for insuring biosecurity
   because processing conditions and volumes, raw material characteristics
   and drying create an unfavorable environment for viruses, bacteria and
   other microorganisms to survive and grow. The temperatures used, which
   typically exceed 270 Fahrenheit, in the rendering process are more than
   adequate to inactivate or kill most know pathogenic organisms, with the
   possible exception of the agent that causes BSE. Further, the water
   activity of finished products is, generally, considered to be too low
   to allow pathogens, such as Salmonella, to proliferate. For these
   reasons, the rendering industry has been instrumental in mandatory as
   well as voluntary disease eradication control efforts for many years.
   Pseudorabies eradication efforts are the most recent example of the
   rendering industry's value in disease eradication and control. Using
   the State of Iowa as an example, the number of Pseudorabies positive
   herds declined from more than 4,000 infected herds to fewer than 40
   because of this voluntary program. Recent events have further increased
   national concern about the potentiality for a biological catastrophe
   that would impact the nation's livestock and poultry industries. The
   rendering industry recognizes that the United States must be prepared
   to address the consequences of such an event by utilizing every
   possible means of control and prevention that is available. To that
   end, it is vital that the Department and the other agencies involved,
   recognize that the rendering industry represents one of the nations's
   most efficient means in controlling and preventing the spread of
   diseases associated with animal tissues. Darling International,
   Incorporated urges members os the various agencies involved in
   developing any national biosecurity plan to utilize the rendering
   industry to its fullest potential and to regulate the disposition of
   raw materials and required that licensed rendering companies or other
   appropriate regulated entities collect, transport and process these
   materials. Thank you. MR. MACHEEL: Do you have a copy of -- MR.
   HAMILTON: Yes. MR. MACHEEL: Okay. The next speaker signed up was
   Francis Amchimcloss from Antec International. Is he here? Mr.
   AMCHIMCLOSS: I'm here, but nothing to speak of. MR. MACHEEL: Okay. MR.
   AMCHIMCLOSS: I'll make some comments later, but not -- MR. MACHEEL:
   Great. Thank you. Okay. The next person is Steve Roach, Food Animal
   Concerns Trust. MR. ROACH: Hello, my name is Steve Roach. And that's
   R-O-A-C-H. Food Animal Concerns Trust, FACT, is a non-profit
   organization that advocates better farming practices to improve the
   safety of meat, milk, and eggs. FACT has participated in developing the
   Federal Government's response to the threat of BSE to US agriculture,
   since the disease was first recognized. FACT was at the table when a
   Federal strategy to keep US cattle free from bovine spongiform
   encephalopathy, BSE, was fashioned several years ago, and FACT worked
   on the drafting of the FDA rule to prohibit ruminant protein from
   ruminant feed. FACT's focus is on protecting the American consumer from
   food safety hazards, so these comments will be directed, primarily,
   towards BSE, instead of foot and mouth disease, which has little
   potential to directly impact human health. Protecting the American
   public from BSE is a difficult task given the uncertainties about the
   nature of the disease and its methods of transmission. At this time,
   there are basic questions that have not been answered including a lack
   of certainty about the transmissible agent. There are also troubling
   gaps in our understanding of how transferable this and other
   transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, TSEs, are between species.
   Given these serious gaps in our understanding, any risk assessment will
   necessarily be speculative and with a large margin of error. What is
   clear though, is that the industrial scale practice of feeding farm
   animals to other farm animals has the potential to multiply this type
   of a disease even where the amount of infective material is, initially,
   very low or the infectivity is also low. These comments focus on four
   overlapping areas of the Federal response to the BSE problem. Number
   one, prevention of the introduction of BSE from sources outside of the
   US. Two, surveillance for BSE within the US. Three, control of the
   potential spread of BSE in the US, and four, necessary research. FACT
   commends the USDA and the FDA for the work they have done in each of
   these areas, but we feel there is much more that could be done. Current
   controls aimed at reducing the risk of introducing BSE into the US
   animal feed supply focus on restricting the imports of live animals and
   animal feed from countries with a high risk for BSE. This is an
   appropriate response, but so far, has not been broadly enough applied.
   Over seventy countries received shipments of feed from the UK while
   they were inadequate controls on the spread of BSE in the production of
   animal feed. With a few exceptions, the US has placed restrictions on
   the importation of feed containing animal products only from European
   countries. Because of the difficulty in detecting the disease before
   its advanced stage, it is imprudent to wait until a country has
   suspected cases of the disease before restricting imports of animal
   feeds. Japan was placed on the list of restricted countries only after
   a suspected case was discovered. The US needs to do a better job of
   determining which countries are a potential source of BSE infection.
   This is, particularly, important given the difficulty of enforcement of
   feeding restrictions once feed has entered the US. FACT recommends that
   a careful review of the procedures for determining which countries are
   at risk for BSE. The evaluation of the risk should be frequently
   updated as new information becomes available and as our understanding
   of the disease increases. Considerable effort should be placed on
   determining where the next outbreak of the disease will occur. In
   addition to this, I think what the US Government really needs to do is
   help with surveillance in other countries. So far, we've focused on the
   concern with Europe, but there's probably a greater risk in the
   developing world where there aren't going to be the controls placed by
   the country, itself. So, if US could also help other countries with the
   surveillance programs, that would be a big help and probably necessary.
   Okay. Surveillance efforts in the US have focused on sampling cattle
   felt to be at greatest risk for BSE. FACT agrees that sampling should
   be carried out on at risk cattle. Our concern is that the numbers of
   cattle tested are too small. APHIS has not stated on what basis it has
   set its targets for surveillance. It has only indicated that these
   targets are a multiple of the standards set by the International Office
   of Epizooties, OIE. It must be noted that in setting these standards,
   OIE states that these values are not scientifically determined, but are
   a subjective judgement. The European Union has found that a much higher
   level of surveillance is necessary. FACT calls upon the USDA to develop
   a more rigorous surveillance program. USDA needs to justify the level
   of testing planned and explain what level of BSE in the US it could be
   expected to detect. Current controls aimed at reducing the threat of
   spreading BSE in the US utilize controlling the feeding of ruminant
   derived proteins to ruminants. FACT agrees that controlling the use of
   animal products in animal feed is the best way to limit the spread and
   multiplication of BSE and other TSEs, but we are concerned that the
   current program does not provide sufficient monitoring and enforcement
   of the current rules. Further, FACT believes that the current controls,
   even if properly enforced, do not sufficiently limit the types of feed
   that can be fed. In recent reports of inspections to renderers and feed
   processors by the CVM, Center for Veterinary Medicine, approximately 20
   percent of all categories of inspected facilities were out of
   compliance. This shows that the US feed industry has yet to take the
   threat of BSE seriously. FACT calls upon the FDA to step up enforcement
   to insure that all firms come into compliance. We are, particularly,
   concerned about two areas where there is greatest risk for the
   breakdown of the control system. First, there -- first where there is
   risk -- okay. First, there must be stepped-up monitoring of plants that
   mix feed for both ruminants and non-ruminants in order to ensure that
   there is not the commingling of ruminant and non-ruminant feed. The
   second area of concern is with the unknown number of locations where
   feed is mixed on farm. A system must be developed to monitor these
   farms for compliance as well. In addition to increased enforcement of
   compliance with the existing rules, FACT believes that the controls on
   animal feeding need to be extended. Given the uncertainty about the
   method and mode of transmission and given the lack of understanding of
   the between species barriers to the transmission of BSE and other TSEs,
   FACT recommends the following further restrictions on feeding. Because
   there is still great uncertainty about the transmissible agent for BSE,
   FACT recommends that all ruminant proteins be banned from feeding to
   other ruminants, except milk and milk products. FACT feels that the
   exemptions for blood and gelatin should be removed until they are
   shown, conclusively, not to carry any risk of spread of BSE. In
   addition, because of the clear evidence of the potential to transfer
   TSEs between species -- TSEs -- BSE has been shown to be able to infect
   felines and mice and humans if we accept that the Variant
   Crentzfeldt-Jakob Disease is related to BSE, which is most likely. So
   there is very clear evidence that these type of transmissible
   spongiform encephalopathies can be transmitted between species. So that
   -- there is that clear risk, and we don't really know how much of a
   risk it is. We recommend a restriction on the use of any animals with
   neurologic disorders as feed for any livestock, including poultry,
   equines, and swine. So, if the animal dies from neurological disorder,
   there is a great risk if we go ahead and feed it to another animal.
   Similarly, the use of materials from the bovine central nervous system
   should be banned along with the use of bovine materials from any
   countries with a high risk for BSE for any animal feeding purposes. The
   final area where much works needs to be done is in research on BSE and
   other TSEs. FACT believes that the highest priority is to develop a
   test that can detect BSE in live animals. The test were able to detect
   BSE in live animals, would also have to be rabbit test. That is
   inexpensive, so that we could, actually, apply it to a large number of
   animals. We feel that this is absolutely necessary for a truly
   effective surveillance program. Other areas that need further research
   support are basic research into the nature of prions and their
   infectivity. Finally, much more effort must be given to understanding
   the differences between the various TSEs and the species barriers
   between them. We feel that a serious look must be given to the
   potential spread of BSE or another TSE in the swine population. We
   appreciate the opportunity to present these comments and we shall also
   be submitting further comments in a written form. Thank you. MR.
   MACHEEL: Thank you. Do you have a copy? All right. Thank you. The next
   speaker that contacted me was Robin Wiley. Is Robin here? Give your
   name and also spell your -- MS. WILEY: My name is Robin Wiley, and I'm
   representing Timberline Foundation. MR. MACHEEL: How do you spell it?
   MS. WILEY: Like it sounds. Timberline. MR. MACHEEL: No, your name. MS.
   WILEY: Oh, W-I-L-E-Y. On behalf of the Timberline Foundation, I wish to
   commend the US Department of Agriculture for its initiative in holding
   today's hearing and, in particular, for its efforts to establish and
   implement a chronic wasting disease program for live elk herds in the
   United States. Establishments of such a program is an essential first
   step towards the eradication of chronic wasting disease, a disease
   impacting both native and farmed elk populations in the US. The
   Timberline Foundation is an Oklahoma non-profit corporation founded in
   1990 with the primary purpose of the research and development of
   solutions to disease affecting elk. Timberline is managed by persons
   both sensitive to the welfare of elk and actively engaged in the elk
   industry and academic community. The foundation has made a commitment
   to seek funds to develop a live animal test for chronic wasting disease
   in elk and is participating with Oklahoma State University in the
   development of a research project to perfect such a test for the
   disease. CWD is a progressive, fatal disease of the central nervous
   system of cervids, such as mule deer, whitetail deer, and elk. It is a
   type of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy; (I'm sure everybody
   knows that. I can't pronounce it.) The symptoms and pathologies are
   similar to mad cow disease. Chronic wasting diseases has its origins in
   the state of Colorado, where infected deer and elk were released into
   the wild near Fort Collins, Colorado. The CWD infected animals released
   by the Wildlife Department spread the disease to resident populations
   and now wild deer and elk herds around the point of release are
   infected with CWD. Colorado Fish and Game has announced plans to reduce
   the wild deer herd population north of Fort Collins by 50 percent.
   However, this gives no assurance that the disease will be either
   eradicated or eliminated. There are, currently, three domestic elk
   herds in Colorado, Nebraska and Oklahoma known to be afflicted with the
   disease. As the origin of CWD in these impacted herds in not known,
   efforts to trace back the disease to its point of origin will involve a
   substantial effort. For the domestic elk industry, this may quickly
   evolve into a matter of epidemic proportions. At the present time,
   there is not test that can be performed on a live animal that will
   determine if the animal is infected or carrying the disease. There is
   no early determination of the disease and the current protocol is to
   wait for an animal to exhibit symptoms and then either slaughter or
   quarantine that animal or any animals in close contact. A live animal
   test must be developed in order to manage and, ultimately, eradicate
   the disease. If such a test is not developed, millions of dollars will
   have to be spent to indemnify owners of healthy animals that are
   slaughtered in the process. Many whole herd eradications have verified
   but one or two infected animals in the entire herd, and yet the whole
   herd is subject to slaughter. The Timberline Foundation wishes to use
   one of the few remaining infected herds as a research tool to develop a
   live animal test for the disease that will indemnify infected animals
   as well as those at risk of carrying the disease. The owner of the
   herd, the elk industry, and members of the academic community are
   committed to join forces. First, to develop a live animal test to
   determine infected animals, and second, to eradicate the disease in
   farmed elk and deer populations. The Timberline Foundation has secured
   private funding to begin this research, and would welcome any
   additional funding available through APHIS for the conduct of this
   research. The Timberline Foundation thanks APHIS for the opportunity to
   testify this morning, and looks forward to working with APHIS towards
   the development of a live animal test which would eradicate chronic
   wasting disease. Thank you. MR. MACHEEL: Thank you. Do you have a copy
   of your -- MS. WILEY: Yeah. MR. MACHEEL: Our next speaker is Karen
   Egbert, Center for Science in the Public Interest. Is Karen -- MS.
   EGBERT: Good morning. My name is Karen Egbert, E-G-B-E-R-T, and I am a
   Senior Staff Attorney in the Food Safety Program at the Center for
   Science in the public Interest. First of all, I'd like to thank the
   Service for providing us the opportunity to comment on the report it
   must provide to Congress under the Animal Disease Risk Assessment,
   Prevention and Control Act of 2001. In fact, we've already filed our
   written comments, but I would like to highlight a few of the things
   that CSPI feels are particularly important to include in the final
   report. Although USDA and FDA have taken important steps, important
   pro-active steps, to reduce the risk that BSE, FMD and related diseases
   could be introduced into the United States and spread within the
   country, there is more that can and should be done. A little over two
   weeks ago, the first suspected BSE case in Japan -- apparently, the
   first in all of Asia, was discovered. This episode demonstrates that
   the USA cannot be complacent about our current protections and must be
   prepared by taking certain steps. First and foremost, USDA should
   conduct a complete and comprehensive review of all regulations,
   directives, and purchasing specifications, including for the school
   lunch program, to ensure that if BSE were ever found in US cattle, no
   BSE-infected material can enter the food supply. This means that, among
   other things, FSIS should amend its regulations to ban beef slaughter
   and processing operations from using spinal columns and neck bones in
   Advanced Meat Recovery or other systems that mechanically separate meat
   from bones. In fact, we have filed a petition with FSIS asking for this
   action. Second, although we do have a mammalian-protein feed ban in
   place, FDA needs to strengthen its enforcement. In particular, FDA must
   strengthen prohibitions to assure there is no commingling and
   cross-contamination of different types of feed that could result in
   cattle eating the banned feed. The July 2001, review of the origin of
   BSE by the Working Group of the European Union's Scientific Steering
   Committee found that the BSE agent was so infective that accidental
   contamination of cattle feed with pig or poultry feed containing meat
   and bone meal was a significant factor which continued to spread BSE
   after the UK ban on the use of meat and bone meal in cattle feed.
   Recent compliance statistics show that only about three quarters of the
   inspected feed mills, ruminant feeders, and renderers were in
   compliance with the requirements of the feed ban and about 85 percent
   of the 180 renderers handling prohibited materials were in compliance.
   We need to strive for 100 percent compliance and the report should
   identify ways in which FDA intends to do that. On another front,
   imports -- APHIS and FSIS must act immediately to strengthen the
   import-inspection firewall. It should do this by updating their
   surveillance, monitoring and inspection systems over imported meat
   products. The recent audit by the Department's Office of Inspector
   General has identified numerous deficiencies that could allow imported
   meat products from countries with FMD and BSE restrictions into this
   country. Therefor, we recommend that APHIS must act now to update its
   ability to track imports by developing a centralized record-keeping
   system. FSIS and APHIS must also work to improve communications between
   the two agencies and their respective field offices, and again, this is
   a recommendation in the audit. Finally, the report should include
   certain recommendations for Congressional legislation to strengthen the
   enforcement authorities of the federal agencies with responsibility for
   protecting US herds and consumers' food supply. These include the
   authority to recall potentially contaminated products. Authority to
   trace illness-causing animals and food back to the farm, the trace back
   authority, and authority to seek mandatory civil penalties for
   violations of food safety regulations. Thank you very much for allowing
   us the opportunity to present our views. MR. MACHEEL: Thank you. That's
   -- those are the people that had contacted me earlier to speak. Is
   anyone else -- would anyone else like to speak today? Yes. MR.
   GOELDNER: I'm Dean Goeldner from the American Veterinary Medical
   Association. It's G-O-E-L-D-N-E-R. The AVMA will be submitting their
   formal comments in writing. So, I just wanted to briefly, reemphasize a
   couple of points you've heard already, earlier this morning. First of
   all, to commend APHIS and CBM for the work they've done in keeping BSE
   and foot and mouth disease out of this country, but also to emphasize
   the points that you heard about the -- excuse me -- about the need for
   additional research to find out the way that transmissible spongiform
   encephalopathies are transmitted. The tremendous need for a live-
   animal test, and also the bioterrorism threats that we see in the
   country now. All, I think, emphasize the importance of improving the
   facilities at Ames, Iowa, and so, we would like to encourage you in
   your report to emphasize the importance of the planned improvements for
   those facilities for APHIS and ARS, and we can address some of these
   important needs. Thank you very much. MR. MACHEEL: Thank you. Any one
   else who would like to speak? MS. BECKER: Leah Becker. It's spelled
   L-E-A-H, B-E-C-K-E-R. I'm with the National Port Producers Council. The
   National Pork Producers Council appreciates you holding this public
   hearing and the opportunity to give oral comments. We also will be
   filing more extensive written comments to the docket. I am a Government
   Relations Representative handling legislative and regulatory issues
   with Animal Health and Safety and Research. I do the coordination for
   the animal agriculture coalition. I've participated in the Animal
   Health Safeguarding Review on the Exclusion Subcommittee, and I'm also
   a member of the National Animal Health Emergency Management Steering
   Committee. The National Pork Producers Council is the public policy arm
   of the Pork Industry to dove tail off of the checkoff arm of the
   National Pork Board. So, to broaden a little bit from the comments that
   you heard from Dr. Beth Lautner, I will just go a little bit further
   than what she said. The US pork industry, first of all, is grateful for
   the work that your agencies do to protect the health of our US swine
   herds and all of animal agriculture. The industry is dedicated to
   protecting our herd health and also being prepared to detect and
   respond to an outbreak of a Foreign Animal Disease here in the United
   States. We are committed to continuing to work with your Federal
   agencies, states, veterinarians and the animal agriculture industries
   to ensure this system is in place and functioning properly. As -- in
   the height of the UK foot and mouth disease outbreak, our Board of
   Directors decided to take a step further to protect us from the
   introduction foot and mouth disease here, and we cancelled our World
   Pork Expo which is our Tradeshow that we expected approximately, about
   40,000 US pork producers and consumers, and about 2,000 international
   pork producers from 60 different countries. We took this as a step to
   further protect our country and then also urge some different
   recommendations from members of Congress, USDA, pork producers and
   other livestock organizations, and I'll just briefly mention those.
   First of all, 100 percent compliance of inspection protocols by USDA,
   APHIS and the US Custom Service on all passengers, mail and cargo in
   the countries that are foot and mouth disease positive. We encourage
   all pork producers and pork plants to prohibit foreign visitors from
   touring farms and plants. Increase funding to USDA, APHIS for
   prevention of Foreign Animal Diseases, particularly foot and mount
   disease. Increase funding for USDA, APHIS for increased detection and
   response on Foreign Animal Diseases. Strongly encourage the US
   Government to take all appropriate actions to eliminate the accidental
   or intentional pathways of the introductions of Foreign Animal
   Diseases. While we realize that 100 percent inspection of passengers
   and cargo from countries that are foot and mouth disease positive is
   not possible, we do ask that the USDA and the US Customs Service
   continue to try to achieve 100 percent compliance with the directives
   to the field on inspection protocols of he international passengers,
   mail and cargo from these countries. During the height of the foot and
   mouth disease outbreak in the UK, we would hear accounts from
   passengers and we continue to hear accounts that were not sent to
   agriculture for inspection and if they were, that they did not
   disinfect their shoes or they didn't have the disinfectant to do that.
   We have relayed these accounts on to your officials for review, and we
   will continue to do this, and urge that they are fully implemented. We
   urge that risk assessments and pathway analysis need to be completed to
   review all possible pathways and the appropriate action taken to
   protect our US swine herd from the introduction of Foreign Animal
   Diseases into this country. This needs to be conducted for both
   accidental and intentional pathways USDA needs to strongly support and
   encourage the passage of the Animal Health Protection Act. This is
   needed to consolidate and modernize the APHIS animal health legal
   authorities. Passage of this legislation is vital to give the Secretary
   of Agriculture clear authority to respond quickly to an animal disease,
   such as foot and mouth disease, be it introduced accidentally or
   intentionally into the US. Equality and authority with the Plant
   Protection Act, that was passed in 2000, is needed to deter illegal
   importation of restricted animals and animal products into the US. The
   National Pork Producers Council is also very supportive of the
   modernization of the facilities in Ames, Iowa and at Plum Island. We
   need up-to-date research facilities and diagnostic capabilities to help
   insure that the systems are in place to respond to disease outbreaks
   and protect the safety of our national meat supply, and allow the US to
   continue to compete successfully in a global market place, and we urge
   continued coordination between APHIS and ARS at these facilities.
   Again, thank you for the opportunity to comment and we will be
   providing further recommendations in a written testimony. MR. MACHEEL:
   Thank you. Would anyone else like to speak? MR. HODGES: My name is Jim
   Hodges with the American Meat Institute, H-O- D-G-E-S. Like other
   speakers this morning, I had no planned to make oral comments, we will
   be submitting our written comments to the record, but based upon the
   time that we have, as well as the previous comments, I'd like to make
   two or three points. The American Meat Institute is the national trade
   association representing meat and poultry processors throughout the
   nation, and in North America. Our members -- we're the oldest and
   largest trade association representing the manufacturing sector of the
   livestock industry. Our members slaughter in excess of about 90 percent
   of all of the beef, cattle, hogs, sheep, chickens, and turkeys in the
   United States. Millions of animals pass through our facilities each and
   every day, which requires packers to be intimately, involved in any
   animal disease control efforts. Our desire, which is obvious, but
   probably deserves restating, is that all reasonable precautions to
   prevent the introduction of Foreign Animal Diseases in the United
   States. Diseases such as BSE and foot and mouth disease will have a
   devastating affect on our industry, both domestically and in our export
   markets, and as many of you are aware, our export markets are becoming
   more and more crucial to moving our industry forward economically. I
   would complement the regulatory agencies, in that, in our opinion, all
   of the agencies, APHIS, FDA, and FSIS have done an admirable job in
   preventing the introduction of Foreign Animal Diseases. We can always
   be critical and look for improvements, which we should, but I think in
   the bottom line, we need to applaud the efforts of our Federal
   Government, because we do not have foot and mouth in this country. We
   do not have BSE, and that is the ultimate proof of whether those
   systems are working or whether they're not. That's not to say that we
   shouldn't continually evaluate those and move forward, but taking
   precipitous actions based upon some kind of theoretical threat without
   some kind of documented risk benefit, seems to us to be going in the
   wrong direction. Concerning contingency planning for if a disease comes
   into the -- this country, and again, here we're focusing, primarily, on
   BSE and foot and mouth, but other diseases would be put in this
   category, we would ask that the agencies be more aware of packers or
   their trade associations. They need to be intimately involved in any
   kind of disease eradication efforts or disease transmission programs as
   -- because of the numbers of livestock that we handle. To often, at
   least in our opinion, we think about the live animal and the disease,
   but we have an awful lot of products in our plants too, and those
   products are distributed throughout the world. So, depending on the
   nature and extent of the problem, we would urge all of the agencies to
   think not only about the live animal and the producer interest, but
   think about the manufacturing interest and what that means. That
   comment is not to be critical, we just think it needs to be emphasized.
   Finally, a comment, Federal Inspectors from the Food Safety Inspection
   Service Center are in our slaughter facilities constantly. Every single
   day, they have to be there when the plant is operating, and we would
   urge that there be better cooperation between the Animal Health
   Inspection Service and the Food Safety Inspection Service,
   particularly, as it relates to disease surveillance. There is
   cooperation today, but I think it needs to be improved, particularly,
   as it relates to the collection of biological samples that may be
   submitted to the APHIS Disease Laboratories. Obviously, there's a
   question of manpower, resources, and all of that, but it -- to us there
   seems to be an opportunity for improved efficiencies in our slaughter
   facilities if we better utilize the FSIS veterinary personnel in
   disease surveillance and sample collection. We will leave that to the
   agency to work out that our desire is o improve that cooperation for
   timeliness, logistics, costs, and a variety of other reasons. Finally,
   thank you very much for opportunity to present these comments and we
   will submit some written comments. MR. MACHEEL: Thank you very much.
   Other speakers? Okay, if not, thank you all for coming, and as I
   mentioned, we will be putting the transcript onto our website once it
   gets completed by the court reporter. So, look for that, and again,
   thank you all for coming. (Whereupon, at 10:05 a.m., the meeting was
   adjourned.) 1
