http://fitness.gov/news/SG_CTA-Obesity/sg_cta-obesity.html

   President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports President's Council
   on Physical Fitness and Sports
   About_PCPFS Presidents_Challenge Presidential_Sports_Award
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif]

             Overweight and Obesity Threaten U.S. Health Gains;
                        Physical Activity is Critical

   SG-CTA-Obesity
   Problems related to overweight and obesity will reverse many of the
   health gains achieved in the U.S. in recent decades unless communities
   help address those prob- lems, according to a "call to action," issued
   by the Surgeon General on December 13, 2001.

   The report, entitled
   "The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Prevent and Decrease
   Overweight and Obesity," outlined strategies that communities can use
   in addressing the problems. Those options included requiring physical
   education at all school grades, turning off vending machines at schools
   during mealtimes, pro- viding safe and accessible recreational
   facilities for resi- dents of all ages, and increased education about
   the benefits of breastfeeding.

   "Overweight and obesity are among the most important new health
   challenges we face today," HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson said. "Our
   modern environ- ment has allowed these conditions to increase at
   alarming rates and become highly pressing health problems for our
   nation. By confronting these conditions, we have tremendous
   opportunities to prevent the unnecessary disease and disability they
   portend for our future."

   Surgeon General David Satcher said, "Left unabated, overweight and
   obesity may soon cause as much preventable disease and death as
   cigarette smoking. People tend to think of overweight and obesity as
   strictly a personal matter, but there is much that communities can and
   should do to address these problems."

   Approximately 300,000 U.S. deaths a year are currently associated with
   obesity and overweight, compared to more than 400,000 deaths a year
   associated with cigarette smoking. The total direct and indirect costs
   attributable to overweight and obesity amounted to $117 billion in the
   year 2000.

   In 1999, an estimated 61 percent of U.S. adults were overweight, along
   with 13 percent of children and adolescents. Only 3 percent of all
   Americans meet at least four of the five federal Food Guide Pyramid
   recommendations for the in- take of grains, fruits, vegetables, dairy
   products, and meats.
   And less than one- third of Americans meet the federal recommendations
   to engage in at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity at least
   five days a week, while 40 percent of adults engage in no leisure-time
   physical activity at all.

   While the prevalence of overweight and obesity has increased for both
   genders across all races, ethnicities and age groups, disparities
   exist. In women, over- weight and obesity are higher among members of
   racial and ethnic minority populations than in non-Hispanic white
   women. In men, Mexican Americans have a higher prevalence of overweight
   and obesity than non-Hispanic men, while non-Hispanic white men have a
   greater prevalence than non-Hispanic black men. Members of lower-income
   families generally experience a greater preva- lence than those from
   higher-income families.

   These trends already are associated with dramatic increases in asthma
   and Type 2 diabetes among children across the country. But Dr. Satcher
   said failure to address overweight and obesity "could wipe out some of
   the gains we have made in areas such as heart disease, several forms of
   cancer, and other chronic health problems."

   In preparing the report, Satcher convened a listening session in
   December 2000 and held a public comment period to gather ideas from
   clinicians, researchers, consumers and advocates. These sessions
   generated a number of community- based strategies that were
   subsequently reviewed for their proven scientific effectiveness. They
   were organized under the categories of communication, action, research
   and evaluation (CARE).

   Those strategies include:
     * Ensuring daily, quality physical education for all school grades.
       Currently only one state in the country, Illinois, requires
       physical education for grades K-12, while only about one in four
       teenagers nationwide take part in some form of physical education.

     * Enforcing existing U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations that
       prohibit serving foods of minimal nutritional value during
       mealtimes in school food service areas, including vending machines.

     * Educating all expectant parents about the benefits of
       breastfeeding, because studies show that breastfed infants may be
       less likely to become overweight as they grow older.


   Making community facilities available for physical activity for all
   people, including on the week-ends.
     * Creating more opportunities for physical activity at worksites.

     * Reducing time spent watching television and other sedentary
       behaviors. In 1999, 43 percent of high-school students reported
       watching two hours of TV or more a day.

     * Changing the perception of obesity so that the primary concern is
       one of health, not of appearances.

     * Increasing research on the behavioral and biological causes of
       overweight and obesity, their prevention and treatment, and
       disparities.

     * Educating health care providers and health profession students on
       the prevention and treatment of overweight and obesity across the
       lifespan.

   "Communities have their share of responsibility when it comes to health
   promo- tion and disease prevention," Dr. Satcher said.
   "When there are no safe places for children to play, or for adults to
   walk, jog, or ride a bike, that's a community responsibility. When
   school lunchrooms or workplace cafeterias don't offer healthy and
   appealing food choices, that is a community responsibility. When new or
   expectant parents are not educated about the benefits of breastfeeding,
   that's a community responsibility. And when we do require daily
   physical educa- tion in our schools, that is also a community
   responsibility."

   NOTE: The National Institutes of Health define obesity and overweight
   through the use of a Body Mass Index (BMI), which is a calculation of a
   person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of their height in
   meters. An overweight adult is defined as one with a BMI between 25 and
   29.9, while an obese adult has a BMI of 30 or higher. In children and
   adolescents, overweight is defined as a sex-and- age specific BMI at or
   above the 95^th percentile, based on revised growth charts by the
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There is no generally
   accep- ted definition for obesity in children and adolescents.

   The risk of death, although modest until a BMI of 30 is reached,
   increases with an increasing BMI. Obese adults have a 50 to 100 percent
   increased risk of pre- mature death compared to adults with a BMI of 20
   to 25. But even moderate weight excess (10 to 20 pounds for a person of
   average height) increases the risk of death, particularly among adults
   aged 30 to 64 years.

            Main | Help | Contact | Other Resources |  Privacy |
         Physical Activity Matters | The Active Life | Funfit Kids |
       About PCPFS | President´s Challenge | Presidential Sports Award

                       Are you in good general health?
   heart

                             Then our information
                        is for you!  Click the heart.
