http://www.nypa.gov/html/niagara.html

   Top-level navigation bar (see also text links at bottom of page): New
   York Power Authority home page; About NYPA; News; Our Locations; Come
   Visit Us
   [spacer.gif] "Our Locations" navigation bar (see text links at bottom
   of page)

   [spacer.gif]
   The Power to Grow Business: Learn More About Low-Cost Hydropower Now
   Available in Western New York - Request Application

   January 28 - Governor: New Marketing Plan to 'Turn Hydro Into  Jobs' in
   WNY:  Low-Cost Hydropower Seen as Lure to Spur Economic Development
   (Governor's Press Release)
   [spacer.gif]
   The Niagara Power Project headline
   [aborule.gif]

   Niagara Power Project photo You know it as one of the great natural
   wonders of the world. But did you know that the power behind Niagara
   Falls also helps generate some of the least expensive electricity
   anywhere?

   The United States and Canada have shared the Niagara River's water
   power—along with a commitment to preserve the beauty of the Falls—for
   nearly half a century.

   When the Niagara project produced its first power in 1961, it was the
   largest hydropower facility in the Western world at the time. Today,
   Niagara is the biggest electricity producer in New York State,
   generating 2.4 million kilowatts—enough power to light 24 million
   100-watt bulbs at once! This low-cost electricity saves the state's
   residents and businesses hundreds of millions of dollars a year.

   Here's how it works:
   The Niagara project, located about 4 1/2 miles downstream from the
   Falls, consists of two main facilities: the Robert Moses Niagara Power
   Plant, with 13 turbines, and the Lewiston Pump-Generating Plant, with
   12 pump-turbines. In between the two plants is a forebay capable of
   holding 164 billion gallons of water; behind the Lewiston plant, a
   1,900-acre reservoir holds additional supplies of this liquid fuel.

   Put very simply, we divert water from the Niagara River—up to 375,000
   gallons a second—and convey it through conduits under the City of
   Niagara Falls to Lewiston. From there, water flowing through the Robert
   Moses plant spins turbines that power generators, converting this
   mechanical energy into electrical energy.

   At night, when electricity demand is low, the Lewiston units operate as
   pumps, transporting water from the forebay up to the plant's reservoir.

   During the daytime, when electricity use peaks, the Lewiston pumps are
   reversed and become generators, similar to those at the Moses plant. In
   this way, the water can be used to produce electricity twice,
   increasing production and efficiency.

   To balance the need for power with a desire to preserve the beauty of
   Niagara Falls, the United States and Canada signed a treaty in 1950
   that regulates the amount of water diverted for hydroelectricity
   production. On average, more than 200,000 cubic feet per second (cfs),
   or 1.5 billion gallons of water a second, flow from Lake Erie into the
   Niagara River. The 1950 pact requires that at least 100,000 cfs of
   water spill over the Falls during the daylight hours in the tourist
   season, April through October. This flow may be cut in half at night
   during this period and at all times the rest of the year.

   Breaking the ice:
   Each winter, we at the Power Authority work cooperatively with Ontario
   Power Generation, a neighboring utility, to prevent ice on the upper
   Niagara River from impeding power production and causing the flooding
   of shoreline property.

   One of our joint efforts is an 8,800-foot-long ice boom, consisting of
   steel pontoons linked together and anchored to the river bottom at Lake
   Erie's outlet to the Niagara River. The boom prevents the buildup of
   ice, yet allows water to continue flowing downstream.

   When gale winds blow and temperatures drop below zero, three
   special-duty boats are used to patrol the river, breaking up the ice
   and maneuvering it over the Falls. The Power Authority's primary
   icebreaker, the William H. Latham, is a 77-ton vessel that literally
   glides over the top of the ice, crushing it into manageable chunks. The
   Breaker, a modified tugboat, assists the Latham. Ontario Hydro operates
   a similar icebreaker called the Niagara Queen.

   How it began:
   The history of Niagara Falls begins with ice. Some 12,000 years ago,
   the ice that had blanketed North America began to thaw. This water
   gradually formed the Great Lakes, carving out the Niagara Gorge and the
   350-foot drop that enables us to produce our power today.

   The first hydroelectric generating station on the Niagara River was
   built in 1881. An 86-foot cascade of water generated electricity, which
   ran the machinery of local mills and lit up some of the village
   streets.

   By 1896, the first long-distance transmission of electricity began
   flowing from Niagara Falls to Buffalo, some 26 miles away. The success
   of hydropower plants was evident with additional generating stations
   built along the Niagara River. But disaster struck in 1956 when the
   region's largest hydropower station was partially destroyed in a
   landslide.

   With power production drastically cut, tens of thousands of
   manufacturing jobs were at stake and a long-simmering debate over
   Niagara's hydropower rights had come to a head. In 1957, Congress
   passed the Niagara Redevelopment Act, which granted the Power Authority
   a federal license to fully develop the United States' share of the
   Niagara River's hydroelectric potential. Within three years—on exactly
   the day predicted by Robert Moses, the "Master Builder" and then
   chairman of the Power Authority—the Niagara project produced first
   power.

   President John F. Kennedy called the project, "an outstanding
   engineering achievement" and "an example to the world." Its reputation
   has attracted engineers and other visitors from around the world. You
   can see this outstanding achievement—and more—at our Visitors Center.

                             Back to top of page


        | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |

      | St.Lawrence-FDR | Poletti | Clark | Niagara | Indian Point 3 |

           | Flynn | FitzPatrick | Blenheim-Gilboa | Small Hydro |

              Copyright © 1997-2002   New York Power Authority
