http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/resmanuf.htm

   Partnerships


   Researchers in industry, universities and other government agencies can
     work with NIST to solve technical problems, improve productivity or
    work on innovative new ideas. Partnerships with NIST take many forms.
    Our nationwide network of Manufacturing Extension Partnership centers
   help smaller manufacturers in their local area, for example. Companies
   can become research partners through our Advanced Technology Program, a
   cooperative research and development agreement or by joining a research
               consortia. Explore the links below for details.
      You can work with scientists in the NIST Laboratories through a
   Cooperative Research and Development Agreement on a project of mutual
      interest or through a research consortium created to work on an
   industry-wide technical problem or need.
    A number of NIST's valuable research facilities are available for use
    by U.S. organizations under agreed upon conditions. For example, when
      an organization is working cooperatively with NIST on a research
    project of mutual interest, it generally has the same access to NIST
    R&D facilities as a NIST researcher. In these types of arrangements,
   the research plan, resource contributions, and facility use details are
   outlined in the specific collaborative agreement.
   The Advanced Technology Program co-funds high-risk, high payoff
   ventures with industry.
     Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program offers smaller and
   mid-sized manufacturers business and technical assistance through a
   network of regional centers.
   A variety fire research collaborations focus on quality and public
   safety of buildings.
   Students and researchers can apply for physics research grants and
   fellowships.
   Definitions, forms and FAQs on many partnership arrangements are
   available here.


   See also: What NIST Does, Funding Opportunities, NIST Products and
               Services, A-Z Subject Index, NIST Home Page

                          Date created: 9/6/00
                          Last updated: 6/14/01
                   Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
