http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/hydrologic.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Hydrologic Databases
   Project Chief:  Mark E. Smith
   Phone:303-236-4882
   Email:mesmith@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   Hydrologic Databases: river flowing along rocks

   In the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch accurate data, expert analyses, and
   technical assistance are needed to plan and implement the massive
   reconstruction efforts facing Central America. Critical to these
   efforts in each Mitch-affected country is the development of a
   comprehensive, centralized, and accessible hydrologic database - one
   that includes both historic and current hydrologic (streamflow and
   precipitation) data.
   To address this need, the USGS will work with counterpart agencies in
   each country to compile available historic hydrologic data. In
   Honduras, the USGS and its counterparts will develop a centralized,
   interactive hydrologic database utilizing the standard hydrologic
   database system of the USGS. In other Mitch-affected countries, the
   USGS will help assess existing hydrologic databases and will implement
   some or all components of the USGS database system. In El Salvador,
   Honduras, and Guatemala there will also be an emphasis on regional
   cooperation and exchange of hydrologic data for the Río Lempa Basin, a
   watershed shared by these three countries.
   Objectives
     * Establish a centralized, comprehensive hydrologic database in
       Honduras.
     * Implement components of the USGS database system in Nicaragua, El
       Salvador, and Guatemala to improve and standardize hydrologic
       databases in those countries.
     * Develop a regional component for hydrologic data from the Río Lempa
       Basin; coordinate data exchange and database linkages among the
       countries that share the Río Lempa to enhance data access by
       scientists, engineers, and resource managers.
     * Upgrade computer hardware/software as needed in each country and
       standardize hydrologic data collection and management.
     * Install PC-based satellite downlinks for direct access by
       counterpart agencies to hydrologic data transmitted by USGS
       streamflow gaging stations in Nicaragua, El Salvador, and
       Guatemala.
     * Train counterpart personnel in each country.

   Approach
   The coordination of existing data and the collection of new data in a
   consistent, standardized fashion are critical to the creation of
   centralized hydrologic databases in this region. Only Nicaragua,
   through its earth science agency, Instituto Nicaragüense de Estudios
   Territoriales (INETER), currently maintains a centralized hydrologic
   database. The situation in neighboring countries is quite different. In
   Honduras, for example, four agencies - the Secretaría de Recursos
   Naturales y Ambiente (SERNA), the Empresa Nacional de Energía Eléctrica
   (ENEE), the Servicio Autónomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
   (SANAA), and the Comisión Ejecutiva Valle de Sula (CEVS) - have been
   collecting hydrologic data from more than 70 streamflow gaging stations
   and 140 precipitation gages. Each of these agencies has used different
   methods for data collection and quality assurance, and stored the data
   it has collected in its own offices. In order to accurately apply and
   statistically manipulate hydrologic data to determine discharge values,
   both historic and current hydrologic information - gathered using
   standardized methodologies-must be available in a centralized database
   in each Mitch-affected country.
   To this end, the USGS is working with counterpart agencies in each
   country to compile all available historic hydrologic data. The USGS is
   installing powerful computer systems to house each country's hydrologic
   data at a central site. Selected components of the USGS database system
   - National Water Information System (NWIS),
   http://water.usgs.gov/pubs/FS/FS-027-98/index.html - are being
   implemented in each country. As of November 30, 2000 computer
   workstations have been installed in Nicaragua and El Salvador. System
   installations are planned for Honduras and Guatemala in 2001.
   Host-country counterparts are being trained to input, analyze and store
   all hydrologic data using standardized methods that will encourage
   regional compatibility. Formal training was conducted at the USGS
   District office in Puerto Rico, in Nicaragua, and in El Salvador during
   2000. To the extent possible, counterpart from each country are invited
   to each course - this approach will strengthen data compatibility
   throughout the region and will promote comaraderie among professionals
   and technicians from each country.
   Hydrologic information working groups have been formed to ensure
   standardized techniques for each country's database, to quality assure
   the stored information, and to ensure that the data are readily
   available to agencies. Training courses conducted by USGS personnel are
   focused on utilizing hydrologic information for engineers and
   water-resource managers engaged in infrastructure design, reservoir
   management, and related activities.
   Cooperating Agencies
     * Honduras: SERNA, ENEE, CEVS, SANAA, Universidad Tecnológica
       Centroamericana (UNITEC), COPECO, Servicio Meteorológico Nacional
       (SMN)
     * Nicaragua: INETER
     * Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Sismología, Vulcanología,
       Meteorología, e Hidrología (INSIVUMEH)
     * El Salvador: Servicio Meteorológico y Hidrológico Nacional (SMHN),
       Programa Ambiental de El Salvador (PAES), Comisión Ejecutiva
       Hidroeléctrica del Río Lempa (CEL)

   Source Data
   Hydrologic data.
   Products
   Hydrologic Databases products page
     * Functional centralized database in Honduras. Database will house
       all available hydrologic data for the country, with public access
       by all interested parties.
     * Technical assessments, with written reports and recommendations, of
       hydrologic databases in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Costa
       Rica.
     * Technical assessments, with written reports and recommendations, of
       database capabilities and needs for at least 15 Mitch-affected
       municipalities in each of Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala.
     * Installation of PC-based emergency warning systems for a selected
       sub-group of these municipalities in each country.
     * Training of personnel of counterpart agencies in database, design,
       management, and quality control.
     * Summary report of hydrologic database capabilities, and inventory
       of data, for each of the partner countries.
     * Development of Internet site linking databases throughout the
       region and a service of available data via the World Wide Web.
       Detailed focus on data sharing, resource management, and
       early-warning capabilities in the Rio Lempa Basin.

   Deliverables
     * A centralized, comprehensive, publicly accessible hydrologic
       database in Honduras.
     * Assessments of hydrologic databases in Nicaragua, El Salvador,
       Guatemala, and implementation of selected components of the USGS
       database system.
     * Installation of PC-based satellite downlinks at counterpart
       agencies in Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala.
     * Training of counterpart personnel in database design, management,
       and quality control.
     * Summary report of hydrologic data and database capabilities in each
       country.
     * An Internet site linking databases throughout the region via the
       World Wide Web, with a special focus on the Río Lempa Basin.

   Locations
   No information available
   Project Tour
   No information available


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/hydrologic.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Wednesday, January 09, 2002
