http://ethics.od.nih.gov/Topics/OGE-SGE.pdf

   CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND THE SPECIAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE A Summary of
   Ethical Requirements Applicable to SGEs The Office of Government Ethics
   (OGE) frequently receives questions about the ethical requirements
   applicable to special Government employees (SGE). Many agencies use
   SGEs, either as advisory committee members or as individual experts or
   consultants, and OGE knows that these SGEs pose unique challenges for
   agency ethics officials. SGEs typically are recruited for temporary
   service to the Government because they provide outside expertise or
   perspectives that might be unavailable among an agency's regular
   employees. Frequently, however, these SGEs have substantial outside
   activities and financial interests that may raise difficult ethics
   questions. In order to help agencies resolve such questions, OGE is
   issuing this summary, which attempts to digest, in one place, the
   various conflict of interest laws and ethics regulations applicable to
   SGEs. Definition of SGE The SGE category was created by Congress as a
   way to apply an important, but limited, set of conflict of interest
   requirements to a group of individuals who provide important, but
   limited, services to the Government. SGEs were originally conceived as
   a "hybrid" class, in recognition of the fact that the "simple
   categories of `employee' and `non-employee' are no longer adequate to
   describe the multiplicity of ways in which modern government gets its
   work done." B. Manning, Federal Conflict of Interest Law 30 (1964). It
   is crucial to distinguish SGEs both from regular employees and from
   individuals who are not Federal employees at all. These distinctions
   are important because SGEs are subject to less restrictive conflict of
   interest requirements than regular employees, but are subject to more
   restrictive requirements than non-employees, who generally are not
   covered by the conflict of interest laws at all. The first and perhaps
   most important point to emphasize is that SGEs are Government
   employees, for purposes of the conflict of interest laws. Specifically,
   an SGE is defined, in 18 U.S.C. § 202(a), as "an officer or employee .
   . . who is retained, designated, appointed, or employed" by the
   Government to perform temporary duties, with or without compensation,
   for not more than 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days.
   The terms "officer" and "employee" are not themselves defined in
   section 202(a). Nevertheless, the definitions of those terms in Title 5
   of the United States Code have long been consulted for general guidance
   in determining whether a given individual should be considered an SGE
   or a non-employee. See 4B Op. O.L.C. 441, 442 (1980).1 Three criteria
   for Government employment are identified in 5 U.S.C. §§ 2104 and 2105:
   (1) appointment in the civil service; (2) performance of a Federal
   function; and (3) supervision by a Federal official. With respect to
   the appointment element, however, it has been held that an appointment
   or other formal employment paperwork, "while perhaps the norm, is not a
   condition of special government employment as statutorily defined,"
   Association of American Physicians and Surgeons v. Clinton, 187 F.3d
   655, 662 (D.C. Cir. 1999); in order for an individual to be "retained,
   designated, appointed or employed" as an SGE, under section 202(a), it
   is sufficient that the circumstances indicate "a firm mutual
   understanding that a relatively formal relationship existed." 1 Op.
   O.L.C. 20, 21 (1977).2 Moreover, with the respect to the supervision
   element, it should be remembered that SGEs, who often work as
   "specialists for short-term projects," sometimes need not be subject to
   the same level of "close supervision" as regular employees. Aluminum
   Co. of America v. FTC, 589 F. Supp. 169, 175-76 (S.D.N.Y. 1984).3
   Nevertheless, supervision or operational control remains an important
   attribute of employee status, and an agency may consider numerous
   factors when determining whether an individual is subject to the
   requisite degree of supervision to be deemed an SGE.4 1 As the Office
   of Legal Counsel has observed, "`the Title 5 definition is frequently
   used as a starting point for any analysis of whether the conflict of
   interest laws apply to a particular individual . . . although the Title
   [5] definition is not necessarily conclusive for conflicts purposes.'"
   17 Op. O.L.C. 150, 154 n.12 (1993)(quoting Memorandum of Assistant
   Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, to Deputy General Counsel,
   Department of Commerce, at 10 (Dec. 15, 1982)). 2 See also OGE Informal
   Advisory Letter 95 x 8 (possibility of de facto SGEs); Manning at 29-30
   (occasional informal advice vs. more formal services). 3 In a similar
   vein, it is recognized in various contexts that the "threshold level of
   control necessary to find employee status is generally lower when
   applied to professional services than when applied to nonprofessional
   services." Weber v. Comm'r of IRS, 60 F.3d 1104, 1111 (4th Cir. 1995).
   4 E.g., OGE Informal Advisory Letter 82 x 22, at 334-35 (focusing on
   degree of agency scrutiny and guidance); 17 Op. O.L.C. at 155-56
   (looking to limits on power of removal and other aspects of specific
   legislation creating particular Federal position); see generally GAO,
   Civilian Personnel Manual , Title I, Chapter 10, at 14-15 (1990)
   (discussing six factors indicating supervision for certain Federal
   personnel purposes); Juliard v. Comm'r of IRS, 61 T.C.M. (CCH) 2683
   (1991) (various factors indicating sufficient agency control over
   professional employee for certain tax purposes); Hospital Resource
   Personnel, Inc. v. United States, 68 F.3d 421, 427-28 (11th Cir. 1995)
   (discussing non-exclusive list of twenty common law factors identified
   by IRS for purpose of determining supervision); Restatement (Second) of
   Agency § 220(2) (1958) (ten factors to determine control). 2 Two of the
   more common types of non-employees from which SGEs must be
   distinguished are "representatives" and independent contractors.
   Representatives, as described more fully in OGE Informal Advisory
   Letter 82 x 22, typically serve on advisory bodies, and they represent
   specific interest groups, such as industry, consumers, labor, etc. Like
   SGEs, representatives can be appointed by the Government for a
   specified term on a Federal advisory committee, and they may make
   policy recommendations to the Government. See OGE Informal Advisory
   Letter 93 x 30. However, representatives can provide only advice.
   Moreover, unlike SGEs and other Federal employees, representatives are
   not expected to render disinterested advice to the Government. Rather,
   they are expected to "represent a particular bias." OGE Informal
   Advisory Letter 93 x 14. Therefore, representatives are not deemed
   employees of the Government for purposes of the conflict of interest
   laws. Likewise, independent contractors are not deemed Government
   employees. True independent contractors are not employees because they
   are not subject to the supervision or operational control, described
   more fully above, that is necessary to create an "employer-employee
   relationship" with the Government. OGE Informal Advisory Letter 82 x
   21. It should be noted, however, that persons who truly function like
   Federal employees will not avoid the application of the conflict of
   interest laws merely because their agency fails to designate them as
   employees or designates them as contractors. See 4B Op. O.L.C. at
   441-42; Association of the Bar of New York City, Conflict of Interest
   and Federal Service 239-40 (1960). Even though SGEs clearly are
   employees, agencies must be careful to differentiate them from regular
   Government employees. For most purposes, SGEs are distinguished from
   regular Government employees on the basis of the number of days of
   expected service to the Government.5 Specifically, an SGE is expected
   to perform temporary duties for no more than 130 days during any period
   of 365 consecutive days. 18 U.S.C. § 202(a). The determination of SGE
   status must be made prospectively, at the time the individual is
   appointed or retained. Employees should be designated as SGEs only
   where the agency makes an advance estimate of the number of days the
   employee is expected to serve during the ensuing 365-day period. This
   is done so that employees are on notice with respect to the rules that
   will apply to them. As the Office of Legal 5 The full definition of SGE
   also includes employees and officers in certain miscellaneous positions
   who are deemed SGEs per se, without regard to the number of days of
   service. 18 U.S.C. § 202(a). See United States v. Baird, 29 F.3d 647,
   650 (D.C. Cir. 1994). In addition, individuals occupying other
   positions are specifically designated as SGEs in certain organic
   legislation. See, e.g., 42 U.S.C. § 12651b(e) (members of Board of
   Directors, Corporation for National and Community Service). 3 Counsel
   has stated, "as a general matter, employees are presumed to be regular
   government employees unless their appointing Department is comfortable
   with making an estimate that the employee will be needed to serve 130
   days or less." 7 Op. O.L.C. 123, 126 (1983)(emphasis added). If an
   agency designates an employee as an SGE, based on a good faith
   estimate, but the employee unexpectedly serves more than 130 days
   during the ensuing 365-day period, the individual still will be deemed
   an SGE for the remainder of that period. However, upon the commencement
   of the next 365-day period, the agency should reevaluate whether the
   employee is correctly designated as an SGE, i.e., expected to serve no
   more than 130 days. Indeed, any time an SGE serves beyond one year, the
   agency should perform a new estimate of the expected number of days of
   service for the next 365-day period; this is true whether the employee
   is actually reappointed for a new one-year term, which is the ordinary
   procedure, or is merely completing an indefinite or multiyear term.
   See, e.g., OGE Informal Advisory Letter 81 x 24. The executive branch
   has long observed certain criteria for counting the number of days of
   expected service, based on a Presidential interpretation of 18 U.S.C. §
   202(a) published shortly after enactment. Presidential Memorandum,
   "Preventing Conflicts of Interest on the Part of Special Government
   Employees," 28 Federal Register 4539, 4541 (May 2, 1963); see also
   Federal Personnel Manual, Chapter 735, Appendix C (sunset); 3 Op.
   O.L.C. 78, 81-82 (1979); OGE Informal Advisory Letter 84 x 4.6 OGE
   continues to use the same criteria, as follows: A part of a day is
   counted as an entire day. Work to be performed on weekends or holidays
   is counted. Where an employee is expected to serve in more than one
   agency, the expected number of days for both agencies must be
   aggregated in order for the employee to be considered an SGE for either
   agency. Where the second position commences at a later date, the number
   of days already served in the first agency must be added to the number
   of days expected to be served in both agencies for the remainder of the
   first 365-day period, in order to determine whether the employee may be
   considered an SGE for either agency during that remaining period. A
   word is in order concerning two fairly common questions pertaining to
   SGE status and the applicability of the conflict of interest
   requirements. First, SGEs (and others) sometimes ask whether the ethics
   restrictions apply to them if they receive no pay 6 The Presidential
   Memorandum was drafted by the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of
   Justice, and "reflects a contemporaneous interpretation" of the 1962
   conflict of interest legislation. 2 Op. O.L.C. 151, 155 n.3 (1978). The
   history of the Presidential Memorandum, including its rescission and
   replacement by other documents, is described in OGE Informal Advisory
   Letter 82 x 22, at 329-32. Much of the substance of the Presidential
   Memorandum was reproduced in Appendix C, Chapter 735 of the Federal
   Personnel Manual (FPM), itself now sunset. To the extent that much of
   the guidance contained in these documents reflects longstanding
   interpretations of 18 U.S.C. § 202(a) and other provisions of the
   conflict of interest laws, OGE continues to follow many of the same
   principles. 4 from the Government. It is important to remember that the
   definition of SGE expressly includes those who serve "without
   compensation." 18 U.S.C. § 202(a). SGEs generally are covered by the
   ethics laws and regulations without regard to their pay status.7
   Second, SGEs occasionally may ask whether the restrictions on their
   outside activities apply on days when they perform no Government
   services. SGEs must be advised clearly that any restrictions concerning
   their private activities (representational services, expert witness
   activities, etc.) apply equally on days when they serve the Government
   and days when they do not.8 Where the Government has not used an
   individual's services for some time, but has not specified a
   termination date in the appointment or otherwise, the individual might
   question whether he or she even remains an SGE. In such cases, the
   individual must seek a formal resolution of the matter before engaging
   in conduct prohibited for an SGE. As one early commentator observed,
   "presumably the consultant will remain an employee until the expiration
   of the designated term," but a "special government employee whose
   appointment is for a long or indefinite period would be well advised to
   submit a written resignation as soon as he thinks there may be a
   substantial hiatus in his services." R. Perkins, The New Federal
   Conflict of Interest Law, 76 Harv. L. Rev. 1113, 1126 (1963). Criminal
   Conflict of Interest Statutes and Related Restrictions Agency ethics
   officials regularly deal with five conflict of interest statutes found
   in Chapter 11, Title 18 of the United States Code: 18 U.S.C. §§ 203,
   205, 207, 208, 209. Each of these criminal statutes makes at least some
   special provision for the treatment of SGEs. The application of these
   statutes is discussed below, in addition to certain related
   requirements found in other provisions of law. a. Restrictions on
   Representation Two statutes, 18 U.S.C. §§ 203 and 205, impose related
   restrictions on the outside activities of SGEs, particularly activities
   involving the representation of others before the Federal Government.
   Section 203 prohibits an employee from receiving, agreeing to receive,
   or soliciting compensation for representational services, rendered 7
   One obvious exception would be certain narrow post-employment
   restrictions applicable only to employees paid at relatively high
   levels, as discussed below. 8 In this respect, the conflict of interest
   restrictions differ from the restrictions on employee political
   activity described in 5 C.F.R. part 734 (Hatch Act regulations). See 5
   C.F.R. § 734.601 (SGE subject to restrictions on political activity
   only "when he or she is on duty"). 5 either personally or by another,
   before any court or Federal agency or other specified Federal entity,
   in connection with any particular matter in which the United States is
   a party or has a direct and substantial interest. It should be noted
   that section 203 applies not only to representational services provided
   by the employee personally, but also to services provided by another
   person with whom the employee is associated, provided that the employee
   shares in the compensation for such services, for example, through
   partnership income or profit-sharing arrangements. See 4B Op. O.L.C.
   603 (1980). Section 205 prohibits an employee from personally
   representing anyone before any court or Federal agency or other
   specified Federal entity, in connection with any particular matter in
   which the United States is a party or has a direct and substantial
   interest. See 18 U.S.C. § 205(a)(2). Unlike section 203, this
   prohibition in section 205(a)(2) applies whether or not the employee
   receives any compensation for his or her representational activity.
   Furthermore, section 205(a)(1) prohibits an employee from representing
   anyone in the prosecution of a claim against the United States, or from
   receiving any gratuity, or share or interest in a claim, as
   consideration for assistance in prosecuting the claim. Both section 203
   and section 205 are limited, however, in their application to SGEs. 18
   U.S.C. § 203(c) and 18 U.S.C. § 205(c) contain identical provisions
   that substantially narrow the prohibitions with respect to SGEs. One of
   the most significant limitations is that SGEs are restricted by
   sections 203 and 205 only in connection with "particular matters
   involving specific parties." Such matters typically involve a specific
   proceeding affecting the legal rights of parties, or an isolatable
   transaction or related set of transactions between identified parties;
   examples would include contracts, grants, applications, requests for
   rulings, litigation, or investigations. Unlike regular employees, SGEs
   may represent others or receive compensation for representational
   services in connection with particular matters of general
   applicability--such as broadly applicable policies, rulemaking
   proceedings, and legislation--which do not involve specific parties.
   See 14 Op. O.L.C. 79 (1990); 5 C.F.R. § 2640.102(l)(m); 5 C.F.R. §
   2637.201(c)(1). Furthermore, the restrictions on SGEs are narrowly
   drawn to focus only on those matters in which the SGE actually
   participated for the Government, as well as, in some cases, those
   matters actually pending in the SGE's own agency. More specifically,
   all SGEs are subject to the prohibitions of sections 203 and 205 with
   respect to those matters in which the SGE "at any time participated
   personally and substantially as a Government employee or special
   Government employee." 18 U.S.C. §§ 203(c)(1), 205(c)(1). Guidance on
   what constitutes personal and substantial participation may be found in
   regulations construing the same phrase in related conflict of interest
   statutes. See 5 C.F.R. § 2640.103(a)(2); 5 C.F.R. 6 § 2637.201(d).
   Likewise, guidance on what constitutes participation in the same
   particular matter as the matter with respect to which an SGE seeks to
   provide representational services may be found in regulations
   construing the analogous requirement in 18 U.S.C. § 207(a). See 5
   C.F.R. § 2637.201(c)(4).9 SGEs who have served the Government for more
   than 60 days during the immediately preceding period of 365 consecutive
   days are subject to an additional restriction. Such SGEs are subject to
   the prohibitions of sections 203 and 205 in connection with any covered
   matter that "is pending in the department or agency of the Government
   in which [the SGE] is serving." 18 U.S.C. §§ 203(c)(2), 205(c)(2). It
   should be noted that the 60-day standard for determining the
   application of this additional restriction is a standard of actual past
   service, as contrasted with the 130- day standard of estimated future
   service for determining SGE status discussed above.10 Thus, for
   example, an SGE may represent another person before the agency in which
   he or she serves until the point at which the SGE has actually served
   60 days in any prior period of 365 days; once the 61st day of service
   is reached, the SGE must discontinue the representation. Beyond these
   basic limitations on the application of sections 203 and 205, SGEs also
   may be eligible for a special waiver that permits certain
   representational activity in connection with work under Federal grants
   and contracts. Identical provisions, in 18 U.S.C. §§ 203(e) and 205(f,)
   allow an agency head to authorize an SGE to represent another before
   the Government "in the performance of work under a grant by, or a
   contract with or for the benefit of, the United States." The
   legislative history indicates that the purpose of this exception is "to
   take care of any situations involving the national interest where an
   intermittent employee's special knowledge or skills may be required by
   his employer or other private person to effect the proper performance
   of a Government contract [or grant] but where his services may be
   unavailable in the absence of a waiver." S. Rep. No. 2213, 87th Cong.,
   2d Sess. (1962), reprinted in 1962 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3852, 3860. Such a
   waiver may be granted 9 The regulatory guidance found in 5 C.F.R. part
   2637 was promulgated prior to amendments to section 207 enacted by the
   Ethics Reform Act of 1989 and thereafter; however, "[e]xcept where the
   underlying statutory provision has changed, part 2637 remains
   persuasive concerning the interpretation of the newer version of 18
   U.S.C. § 207." OGE Memorandum to Designated Agency Ethics Officials,
   General Counsels, and Inspectors General (Nov. 5, 1992). 10
   Nevertheless, certain similar rules apply to counting the number of
   days: a partial day worked should be counted as a full day, and work
   performed on weekends and holidays should be counted. However, unlike
   the 130-day standard for determining SGE status, the 60-day standard
   under sections 203(c) and 205(c) does not require that service at more
   than one agency be aggregated; in other words, only service at the
   agency before which the SGE intends to represent someone should be
   counted in determining whether the 60-day standard has been exceeded
   with respect to that agency. 7 only by the agency head and must be
   based on a written certification, published in the Federal Register,
   that it is required by the national interest. Such a waiver covers
   representation only during the "performance of work under" a grant or
   contract and therefore would not apply to representational activity
   prior to the awarding and commencement of work on a grant or contract.
   See Presidential Memorandum, 28 Federal Register at 4542 (waiver
   provision covers "situation which may arise after a Government grant or
   contract has been negotiated").11 Finally, even where the narrow
   restrictions of section 203 and section 205 are inapplicable, agencies
   should be aware that certain representational activities of SGEs may
   implicate 5 C.F.R. § 2635.702, which prohibits the use of public office
   for private gain. The need for administrative action to prevent SGEs
   from abusing their inside position for the benefit of private persons
   was addressed in the legislative history of sections 203 and 205, as
   well as in subsequent issuances and opinions of the executive branch.12
   In some circumstances, private representational activity by SGEs can
   raise at least the appearance that they are using their official
   position to gain special access or attention from Government
   decisionmakers, which would be unavailable to the general public. Cf.
   91 x 17 (appearance that SGE made certain contacts through Government
   connections for benefit of outside organization). Such concerns are
   more likely to arise when the subject matter of the private
   representation is related to the subject matter of the SGE's official
   duties and the representational contacts are made to the SGE's own
   agency, especially to the same agency personnel with whom the SGE works
   in an official capacity. These issues must be addressed on a
   case-by-case basis, with adequate consideration of the legitimate
   interests and demands of an SGE's outside professional life. b.
   Post-Employment Restrictions 11 SGEs, like regular employees, also may
   be eligible for other exceptions to sections 203 and 205. See 18 U.S.C.
   §§ 203(d),(f), 205(d), (e), (g), (i). 12 Discussing proposed sections
   203 and 205, the Senate Report stated that, beyond the limited criminal
   prohibitions, "agency watchfulness and regulation" may be necessary to
   "make certain that persons serving [an agency] part time who also
   appear on behalf of outside organizations do not abuse their access to
   the agency for the benefit of those organizations." S. Rep. No. 2213,
   1962 U.S.C.C.A.N. 3859. Similar concerns were voiced in a Presidential
   Memorandum issued shortly after the legislative enactment: "It is
   desirable that a consultant or adviser or other individual who is a
   special Government employee, even when not compelled to do so by
   sections 203 and 205, should make every effort in his private work to
   avoid any personal contact with respect to negotiations for contracts
   or grants with the department or agency which he is serving if the
   subject matter is related to the subject matter of his consultancy or
   other service." 28 Federal Register at 4542. The Presidential
   Memorandum recognized that it may not be practicable for SGEs to avoid
   all such representational activity, depending on the circumstances, but
   advised that SGEs at least alert a "responsible government official"
   when contemplating such activities. Id.; see also Federal Personnel
   Manual (sunset), Chapter 735, Appendix C, at 3; 10 Op. O.L.C. at 82-83;
   7 Op. O.L.C. at 125 n.3. 8 The criminal post-employment statute, 18
   U.S.C. § 207, imposes a number of different restrictions on the
   activities of former Government employees. Several of these
   restrictions provide no special treatment for SGEs. The provisions of
   section 207 that apply in the same way to both SGEs and regular
   employees include: (1) 18 U.S.C. § 207(a)(1), the lifetime prohibition
   on representing others in connection with the same particular matter
   involving specific parties in which the former employee participated
   personally and substantially; (2) 18 U.S.C. § 207(a)(2), the two-year
   prohibition on representing others in connection with the same
   particular matter involving specific parties that was pending under the
   employee's official responsibility during the last year of Government
   employment; and (3) 18 U.S.C. § 207(b), the one-year prohibition on
   representing, aiding, or advising others about certain ongoing trade or
   treaty negotiations on the basis of certain nonpublic information.13
   Other parts of section 207 do contain special provisions for SGEs. The
   most significant provision is found in section 207(c), the so-called
   "one year cooling off period" for former "senior employees." Section
   207(c) prohibits former senior employees from representing anyone
   before their former agency or department for one year after terminating
   their senior position, in connection with any matter. This restriction
   generally applies to: positions for which the rate of pay is fixed
   according to the Executive Schedule; positions for which the rate of
   basic pay is equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay for level 5
   of the Senior Executive Service;14 positions with appointment by the
   President under 3 U.S.C. § 105(a)(2)(B) or by the Vice President under
   3 U.S.C. § 106(a)(1)(B); and positions held by an active duty
   commissioned officer of the uniformed services serving at pay grade 0-7
   or above. 18 U.S.C. § 207(c)(2). However, with respect to SGEs, the
   application of 13 Additionally, 18 U.S.C. § 207(d) imposes a one-year
   prohibition on "very senior employees" against representing others
   before their former agency or before any official appointed to an
   Executive Schedule position. On its face, section 207(d) makes no
   special provision for SGEs; however, it is unclear whether an SGE would
   occupy a position that falls within the "very senior" category, as
   described in the statute. See 18 U.S.C. § 207(d)(1). Agencies with
   specific questions concerning the applicability of section 207(d) to a
   particular SGE or class of SGEs are advised to consult with OGE or the
   Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice. 14 Because SGEs often
   are paid on an hourly or daily basis, it may be necessary to prorate
   the basic pay for level 5 of the SES, either on an hourly or a daily
   basis, in order to determine whether the SGE's hourly or daily rate is
   equivalent. 9 section 207(c) is limited, based on the number of days
   the individual served during the last year in a senior position.
   Specifically, the one year cooling off period applies only to former
   SGEs who served 60 days or more during the one-year period before
   terminating their services as a senior employee.15 Section 207(f),
   which restricts certain post-employment activities with foreign
   entities, is similarly limited with respect to SGEs. Section 207(f)
   generally imposes a one-year prohibition on representing, aiding, or
   advising certain covered foreign entities in connection with any
   official decision of an officer or employee of the United States.
   However, section 207(f) applies only to "senior employees" who are
   subject to section 207(c) and "very senior employees" who are subject
   to section 207(d). Therefore, SGEs who are not subject to section
   207(c) or section 207(d)--for example, "senior employees" who served
   fewer than 60 days during the last year before they terminated from
   their senior position--are likewise exempt from section 207(f).16 Apart
   from 18 U.S.C. § 207, Executive Order 12834 (January 20, 1993) imposes
   a number of related post-employment restrictions on "senior appointees"
   and certain trade negotiators. These restrictions include, among other
   things, certain five-year cooling off requirements that are similar in
   scope to the one-year restrictions of 18 U.S.C. §§ 207(c) and 207(b),
   as well as a lifetime ban on certain activities as a foreign agent. The
   requirements of Executive Order 12834 apply only to "full-time,
   non-career appointees." Although it is possible for an SGE to provide
   temporary services on a "full-time" basis, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §
   202(a), and certain SGEs could be considered "non-career" for certain
   purposes,17 SGEs are not covered by the requirements of Executive Order
   12834. The Executive order was not intended to cover employees who
   perform only temporary duties. It was not contemplated that the
   significant contractual obligations imposed by the Executive order
   would apply to persons who serve in the relatively limited capacity of
   an SGE. 15 The Director of OGE also has authority to waive the
   prohibition of section 207(c) with respect to certain senior positions,
   under limited circumstances. See 18 U.S.C. § 207(c)(2)(C); 5 C.F.R. §
   2641.201(d). 16 Additionally, SGEs, like all employees, may be eligible
   for a number of exceptions to the various restrictions of 18 U.S.C. §
   207. See 18 U.S.C. § 207(h),(j),(k). 17 See OGE Informal Advisory
   Letter 90 x 22 (Presidentially appointed member of board of directors
   of agency is noncareer officer or employee and may be SGE depending on
   estimate of number of days of service); see generally OGE Informal
   Advisory Letter 89 x 16 (indicia of non- career status). 10 Finally,
   former SGEs are subject to the provisions of the Procurement Integrity
   Act, 41 U.S.C. § 423, to the same extent as all former Federal
   employees. See 48 C.F.R. § 3.104-3 (definition of "official" includes
   SGEs). The act prohibits a former SGE from accepting compensation as an
   employee, officer, director, or consultant of a contractor within the
   one-year period after the SGE participated in certain procurement
   matters pertaining to that contractor. See 41 U.S.C. § 423(d). This
   statute also imposes certain sanctions, including criminal penalties,
   on former SGEs who disclose certain information pertaining to Federal
   procurements. See 41 U.S.C. § 423(a), (e). c. Financial Conflicts of
   Interest 18 U.S.C. § 208 prohibits all employees, including SGEs, from
   participating personally and substantially in any particular matter
   that has a direct and predictable effect on their own financial
   interests or the financial interests of others with whom they have
   certain relationships. In addition to an employee's own personal
   financial interests, the financial interests of the following persons
   or organizations are also disqualifying: spouse; minor child; general
   partner; organization which the individual serves as officer, director,
   trustee, general partner or employee; person or organization with which
   the employee is negotiating or has any arrangement concerning
   prospective employment.18 Because SGEs typically have substantial
   outside employment and other interests, which are often related to the
   subject areas for which the Government desires their services, issues
   under section 208 frequently arise. In certain circumstances, however,
   SGEs are eligible for special treatment under section 208. SGEs who
   serve on advisory committees, within the meaning of the Federal
   Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. app., are uniquely eligible for
   a particular waiver of the prohibitions of section 208(a). Under 18
   U.S.C. § 208(b)(3), an SGE serving on a FACA committee may be granted a
   waiver where the official responsible for his or her appointment
   certifies in writing that the need for the SGE's services outweighs the
   potential for a conflict of interest posed by the financial interest
   involved. 18 U.S.C. § 208(b)(3). The standard for granting such 18
   Related provisions in the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Executive
   Branch Employees also disqualify an employee, including an SGE, from
   participating in matters affecting the financial interests of a person
   or organization with which the employee is "seeking" employment, even
   if there have been no actual negotiations or arrangements for
   prospective employment, within the meaning of section 208. See 5 C.F.R.
   part 2635, Subpart F. Furthermore, a provision in the Procurement
   Integrity Act, which applies equally to SGEs and regular employees,
   imposes disqualification and reporting requirements on employees who
   participate in certain agency procurement matters and who receive
   employment contacts from bidders or offerors in those procurements. See
   41 U.S.C. § 423(c). 11 waivers is more liberal than the standard for
   other employees, under 18 U.S.C. § 208(b)(1), which requires a
   determination that the financial interest is not so substantial as to
   be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the employee's services.
   Compare 5 C.F.R. § 2640.301 (requirements for waivers under section
   208(b)(1)); 5 C.F.R. § 2640.302 (requirements for waivers under section
   208(b)(3)). Agencies should remember that Congress reserved this
   special waiver authority only for those SGEs who serve on advisory
   committees; SGEs who do not serve in connection with a FACA committee
   may be granted a waiver only in accordance with section 208(b)(1). See
   Report of The President's Commission on Federal Ethics Law Reform 30
   (1989) (advisory committees warrant different approach under section
   208 because FACA provides important safeguards and members only make
   nonbinding recommendations). SGEs serving on FACA committees also are
   covered by certain exemptions from section 208 that have been
   promulgated by OGE, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 208(b)(2). The most
   significant of these is 5 C.F.R. § 2640.203(g), which pertains to
   certain financial interests arising from the SGE's outside employment.
   Specifically, this exemption permits SGEs serving on FACA committees to
   participate in particular matters of general applicability--such as the
   development of general regulations, policies, or standards--where the
   disqualifying interest arises from the SGE's non- Federal employment or
   prospective employment. Agencies should note, however, that this
   exemption is subject to several important limitations: (1) the matter
   cannot have a "special or distinct effect" on either the SGE or the
   SGE's non-Federal employer, other than as part of a class;19 (2) the
   exemption does not cover interests arising from the ownership of stock
   in the employer; (3) and the non-Federal employment must involve an
   actual employee/employer relationship, as opposed to an independent
   contractor relationship (such as certain consulting positions). See 61
   Federal Register at 66838. Furthermore, it should be emphasized that
   section 2640.203(g) does not apply to all SGEs, but only to those
   serving on advisory committees within the meaning of FACA. 19 When we
   promulgated this exemption, we explained the "special or distinct
   effect" limitation as follows: "[I]t is not OGE's intent that the
   exemption apply only where the effect of the matter on members within a
   class is identical. Normally, the matter would have a `special or
   distinct effect' when its impact would be unique to the employee or his
   employer, or where the effect would be clearly out of proportion in
   comparison to the effect on other members of the class." 61 Federal
   Register 66829, 66839 (December 18, 1996). Although the examples
   following section 2640.203(g) do not specifically address the "special
   or distinct effect" limitation, guidance as to the meaning of that
   phrase may be found in an example following another exemption that uses
   the same language. See 5 C.F.R. § 2640.203(b) (Example 2) (even though
   grant announcement open to all universities, employee's university one
   of just two or three likely to receive grant because very few
   universities known to have necessary facilities and equipment). 12 Two
   other exemptions also specifically cover SGEs serving on FACA
   committees, although these are much more narrow in scope. One covers
   certain SGEs participating in matters pertaining to medical products, 5
   C.F.R. § 2640.203(i), and the other covers a very limited class of SGEs
   serving on certain advisory committees of the Food and Drug
   Administration, 5 C.F.R. § 2640.203(j). Additionally, OGE expects to
   promulgate other exemptions in the near future, some of which may apply
   to specific situations involving SGEs serving on certain advisory
   committees. Another exemption, 5 C.F.R. § 2640.203(c), is not
   specifically limited to SGEs but can be helpful in resolving certain
   issues particularly common among SGEs. Section 2640.203(c) permits any
   employee to participate in a particular matter affecting one campus of
   a multi-campus institution of higher education, where the disqualifying
   interest arises from the individual's employment with a separate campus
   of the same institution, provided that the individual has no
   multicampus responsibilities at the institution. SGEs frequently are
   drawn from universities, including large universities with multiple
   campuses. These SGEs may be called upon to participate in official
   matters--such as grants, contracts, applications, and other particular
   matters--that affect the financial interests of another campus in the
   same university system where they are employed. Hence, section
   2640.203(c) may have particular utility for many SGEs.20 Finally,
   because divestiture of a disqualifying interest is one of the remedies
   for a potential violation of section 208, it is important to note that
   SGEs are not eligible for a Certificate of Divestiture (CD). A CD is a
   tax benefit that allows the deferral or nonrecognition of capital gain
   where an employee divests a financial interest in order to comply with
   conflict of interest requirements. However, Congress specifically
   excluded SGEs from the definition of "eligible person," and
   consequently SGEs may not take advantage of this benefit. 26 U.S.C. §
   1043(b)(1)(A). d. Supplementation of Federal Salary 18 U.S.C. § 209
   prohibits Federal employees from receiving "any salary, or any
   contribution to or supplementation of salary" from an outside source as
   compensation for their Government services. SGEs, however, are
   completely exempt from this prohibition. 18 U.S.C. § 209(c). This
   means, for example, that SGEs may continue to collect their regular
   salary from an outside employer for days on which they are 20 Of
   course, SGEs also may take advantage of the other generally applicable
   exemptions promulgated by OGE, including the exemptions for certain
   interests in publicly traded securities. See 5 C.F.R. part 2640,
   Subpart B. 13 providing services to the Government (whether their
   Government service is paid or unpaid). SGEs should be advised,
   nevertheless, that there may be other restrictions on the receipt of
   compensation in connection with the performance of their official
   duties. For example, 5 C.F.R. § 2635.807 prohibits all Federal
   employees, including SGEs, from receiving outside compensation for
   teaching, speaking, or writing when "the activity is undertaken as part
   of the employee's official duties." 5 C.F.R. § 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(A).
   SGEs also are subject to the criminal bribery and illegal gratuity
   statute, which prohibits, under certain circumstances, the receipt of
   anything of value in connection with official acts. 18 U.S.C. § 201(b),
   (c). Other Ethics Statutes Apart from the five major criminal conflict
   of interest statutes in Chapter 11 of Title 18, there are other ethics
   statutes, some of which apply to SGEs and some of which do not. As
   discussed above, SGEs are subject to the bribery and illegal gratuity
   statute, 18 U.S.C. § 201. SGEs also are covered by 5 U.S.C. § 7353,
   which prohibits the acceptance of gifts from certain sources. Likewise,
   SGEs are subject to 5 U.S.C. § 7351, which prohibits certain gifts to
   official superiors and gifts from employees receiving less pay. Both
   section 7353 and section 7351 are specifically implemented by the
   Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch,
   discussed more fully below. See 5 C.F.R. part 2635, subparts B and C.
   Similarly, SGEs are covered by the financial disclosure provisions of
   the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. app. §§ 101-111, as
   implemented by 5 C.F.R. part 2634, discussed below. The restrictions of
   the Procurement Integrity Act, 41 U.S.C. § 423, also apply to SGEs, as
   discussed above.21 Agencies also should note that SGEs are subject to
   18 U.S.C. § 219, a criminal statute that prohibits employees from
   acting as an agent of a foreign principal under certain circumstances.
   Unlike regular employees, however, SGEs may be eligible for a special
   exemption from the prohibitions of section 219, where the agency head
   21 Also in the procurement area, we note that SGEs are covered by a
   provision in the Federal Acquisition Regulation that generally
   prohibits the award of Federal contracts "to a Government employee or
   to a business concern or other organization owned or substantially
   owned or controlled by one or more government employees." 48 C.F.R. §
   3.601(a). However, unlike regular employees, SGEs are covered by this
   prohibition only if: (1) the contract arises directly out of the SGE's
   official activities; (2) the SGE is in a position to influence the
   award of the contract in his or her official capacity; or (3) some
   other conflict of interest is determined to exist. 48 C.F.R. §
   3.601(b). 14 certifies that employment of the SGE "is required in the
   national interest." 18 U.S.C. § 219(b). The Department of Justice also
   has held that SGEs may be subject to the Emoluments Clause of the
   United States Constitution, U.S. Const., art. I, § 9, cl. 8, which
   prohibits persons who "hold offices of profit or trust" in the Federal
   Government from having any position in or receiving any payment from a
   foreign government. See 15 Op. O.L.C. 65 (1991); 17 Op. O.L.C. 114
   (1993). OGE does not render opinions concerning section 219 or the
   Emoluments Clause, and agencies are advised to consult with Department
   of Justice if they have any questions about the application of these
   provisions to SGEs. SGEs are not, however, subject to 5 U.S.C. app. §
   501, which imposes limits on the outside earned income of certain
   noncareer employees. See 5 U.S.C. app. § 505(2)(B).22 Nor are SGEs
   covered by 5 U.S.C. app. § 502, which imposes a number of restrictions
   on the outside activities of certain noncareer employees. See id.
   Moreover, as discussed above, SGEs are not covered by the statutory
   provision authorizing certificates of divestiture for the
   nonrecognition of capital gain in cases where employees sell property
   to comply with ethics requirements. See 26 U.S.C. § 1043(b)(A). SGEs
   also are not subject to 26 U.S.C. § 4941, which imposes tax sanctions
   on certain Government employees who engage in specified acts of
   "self-dealing" in connection with a private foundation. See 26 U.S.C. §
   4946(c). Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive
   Branch Generally, SGEs are treated the same as regular employees under
   the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch,
   5 C.F.R. part 2635. See 5 C.F.R. § 2635.102(h) ("employee" includes
   SGEs, and employee status not affected by fact that SGE does not
   perform official duties on given day). There are, however, a few
   notable exceptions. Only those exceptions, as well as a few other items
   of particular relevance to SGEs, will be discussed below.23 a. Gifts
   from Outside Sources 22 Similarly, SGEs are not subject to the related
   prohibition on outside earned income applicable to certain Presidential
   appointees, under Executive Order 12674, § 102 (1989), as modified by
   Executive Order 12731 (1990). This provision, which covers certain
   "full-time non-career" appointees, is inapplicable to SGEs for reasons
   similar to those discussed above with respect to the applicability of
   Executive Order 12834. 23 See also the discussion above of 5 C.F.R. §
   2635.702, in connection with the representational activities of SGEs.
   15 SGEs, like all employees, are subject to 5 C.F.R. § 2635.202(a),
   which prohibits the acceptance of gifts from a "prohibited source" and
   gifts given because of an employee's official position. The definition
   of "prohibited source" includes any person seeking official action from
   the employee's agency, doing or seeking to do business with the
   employee's agency, conducting activities regulated by the employee's
   agency, or having interests that may be substantially affected by the
   employee's official duties; the definition also includes organizations
   the majority of whose members fall within any of the aforementioned
   categories. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.203(d). From this definition, it should be
   immediately apparent that SGEs pose unique issues, because many SGEs
   are employed by, or have substantial professional and business
   relationships with, such prohibited sources. For this reason, OGE
   originally proposed an exception, 5 C.F.R. § 2635.204(e)(2),
   specifically to permit SGEs to accept various benefits resulting from
   outside business or employment activities, where it is clear that such
   benefits are not offered or enhanced because of the employee's official
   position. See 56 Federal Register 33777, 33782 (July 23, 1991).
   Although the final version of section 2635.204(e)(2) was broadened to
   cover all employees, not just SGEs, this exception continues to be of
   particular importance to SGEs. b. Presidential Appointees and Covered
   Noncareer Employees 5 C.F.R. § 2635.804 references certain outside
   earned income restrictions on specified Presidential appointees and
   other covered noncareer employees. These restrictions are inapplicable
   to SGEs.24 c. Outside Expert Witness Activities Employees generally may
   not participate as an expert witness, other than on behalf of the
   United States, in any proceeding before a Federal court or agency in
   which the United States is a party or has a direct and substantial
   interest. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.805(a). This prohibition applies whether or
   not the employee receives compensation for the activity. The Designated
   Agency Ethics Official may authorize an employee to serve as an expert
   witness where such service is determined to be in the interest of the
   Government or where the subject matter of the testimony is determined
   to be unrelated to the employee's official duties. 5 C.F.R. §
   2635.805(c). For SGEs, the restrictions of section 2635.805 are
   substantially narrowed. With respect to most SGEs, section 2635.805
   applies only where the SGE actually participated officially in the same
   proceeding or in the particular matter that is the 24 See footnote 22
   and accompanying text. 16 subject of the proceeding. 5 C.F.R. §
   2635.805(a). A somewhat more restrictive standard applies to a smaller
   class of SGEs who are deemed to have particularly significant Federal
   positions, i.e., those either appointed by the President, serving on a
   commission established by statute, or serving (or expected to serve)
   for more than 60 days in a period of 365 days. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.805(b).
   For this class of SGEs, the restriction on expert service also applies
   to any proceeding in which the SGE's own agency is a party or has a
   direct and substantial interest. d. Outside Teaching, Speaking and
   Writing 5 C.F.R. § 2635.807(a) generally prohibits an employee from
   receiving outside compensation for speaking, teaching or writing
   activities that relate to the employee's official duties. Such
   activities may relate to an employee's official duties in several
   different ways: if the activity is performed as part of the employee's
   official duties (discussed above in connection with supplementation of
   Federal salary); if the invitation to engage in the activity was
   extended primarily because of the employee's official position rather
   than expertise in the subject matter; if the invitation or offer of
   compensation was extended by someone with interests that may be
   affected substantially by the employee's duties; or if the information
   conveyed through the activity draws substantially on nonpublic
   information obtained through the employee's Government service. 5
   C.F.R. § 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(A)-(D). SGEs, like all employees, are
   prohibited from receiving compensation for activities that are related
   to their official duties in any of these ways. Additionally, pursuant
   to paragraph (E) of the definition of relatedness, there are several
   other ways in which teaching, speaking and writing may relate to an
   employee's official duties, and SGEs receive special treatment in this
   connection. See 5 C.F.R. § 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(E). Under paragraph
   (E)(1), an activity is related if it deals, in significant part, with
   any matter to which the employee is currently assigned or has been
   assigned during the previous year. Under paragraph (E)(2), an activity
   is related to an employee's official duties if it deals, in significant
   part, with any ongoing or announced policy, program or operation of the
   employee's agency. Moreover, under paragraph (E)(3), with respect to
   certain noncareer employees, an activity is related to the employee's
   duties if it deals, in significant part, with "the general subject
   matter area, industry, or economic sector primarily affected by the
   programs and operations" of the employee's agency. The scope of
   paragraph (E) is substantially narrowed, however, with respect to SGEs.
   First, SGEs are completely exempt from paragraphs (E)(2) and (E)(3).
   See 5 C.F.R. § 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(E)(4). Thus, for example, nothing in
   section 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(E) prohibits an SGE from accepting
   compensation for 17 speaking, teaching, or writing simply because the
   activity relates to the programs or the general subject area of the
   SGE's agency. Second, even with respect to paragraph (E)(1), which
   covers matters in which the employee has been personally involved
   during the past year, the restriction is limited. For all SGEs,
   paragraph (E)(1) is limited only to the matters to which the SGE is
   currently assigned or had been assigned during his or her current
   appointment. Moreover, for SGEs who have not served (or are not
   expected to serve) more than 60 days during the first year of
   appointment or any subsequent one-year period of appointment, the
   restriction is even narrower: paragraph (E)(1) applies only to
   "particular matters involving specific parties" in which the SGE "has
   participated or is participating personally and substantially." Thus,
   for example, nothing in section 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(E) prohibits an SGE
   from accepting compensation simply because the activity pertains to a
   policy matter that does not involve specific parties, even though the
   SGE may be assigned to such matter.25 Another provision in section
   2635.807 has special significance for SGEs, even though it applies
   equally to regular employees. There is a specific exception to the ban
   on compensation for activities that are related to an employee's duties
   under either section 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(B)(invitation primarily because
   of official position) or section 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(E)(activity deals
   with personal assignments, etc.). This exception permits employees to
   accept compensation, otherwise prohibited by these two provisions, for
   teaching a course requiring multiple presentations offered as part of:
   (a) the regularly established curriculum of various specified types of
   educational institutions; or (b) educational or training programs
   sponsored and funded by Federal, State, or local government. 5 C.F.R. §
   2635.807(a)(3). Because SGEs so often are employed by universities and
   other institutions of higher learning, on a full-time or adjunct basis,
   this exception may have particular relevance. 25 As discussed above
   (under "Supplementation of Federal Salary"), however, section 2635.807
   still prohibits an SGE from receiving compensation for teaching,
   speaking or writing activities that are undertaken as part of the
   employee's official duties. 18 e. Fundraising All employees, including
   SGEs, are equally subject to certain restrictions on personal
   fundraising for nonprofit organizations. These include restrictions on
   the use of official title, position and authority, and the solicitation
   of subordinates. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.808(c). Additionally, employees may
   not personally solicit funds or other support from a person known by
   the employee to be a "prohibited source." (The definition of prohibited
   source is discussed in more detail above, under "Gifts from Outside
   Sources.") With respect to SGEs, however, this restriction is limited
   to a narrower subset of the definition of prohibited source. SGEs are
   prohibited only from personally soliciting persons whose interests may
   be affected substantially by the performance or nonperformance of the
   SGE's official duties. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.808(c)(1)(ii). Financial
   Disclosure As a general rule, all SGEs must file either a public
   financial disclosure statement or a confidential financial disclosure
   statement. a. Public Reporting SGEs are required to file a public
   financial disclosure report if they meet two criteria. First, they must
   perform the duties of their office, or be expected to perform those
   duties, for more than 60 days in the calendar year. See 5 C.F.R. §
   2634.204. Second, they must meet the pay conditions for public filing,
   i.e., they must be paid at least the equivalent of 120% of the minimum
   rate of basic pay for GS-15 of the General Schedule (or, if they are
   members of the uniformed service, they must be at or above pay grade
   0-7). See 5 C.F.R. § 2634.202(c). SGEs meeting both of these criteria
   file the same new entrant, incumbent, and termination reports as
   regular employees. Additionally, any prospective SGE who is nominated
   by the President to a position requiring Senate
   confirmation--regardless of pay level or expected number of service
   days--may be required by the confirming committee to file an initial
   "nominee" report. See 5 U.S.C. app. § 101(b)(1). Unlike regular
   employees, certain SGEs may be eligible for a special waiver of the
   public availability of their financial disclosure reports. In "unusual
   circumstances," the Director of OGE may grant a waiver of the public
   availability requirement for a financial disclosure report submitted by
   an SGE who has neither performed, nor is expected to perform, official
   duties for more than 130 days in a calendar year. 5 C.F.R. §
   2634.205(a). Such a waiver may be granted only if the Director
   determines that the individual is able to provide services specially
   needed by the 19 Government, it is unlikely that the SGE's outside
   employment or financial interests will create a conflict of interest,
   and public financial disclosure is not otherwise necessary. Id.
   Requests for such waivers are subject to a number of very specific
   procedural requirements, including deadlines for submissions, so SGEs
   and their agencies should consult 5 C.F.R. § 2634.205(b) carefully.
   Moreover, it should be understood that such waivers are rarely granted.
   b. Confidential Reporting Generally, any SGE not required to file a
   public financial disclosure report must file a confidential financial
   disclosure report. 5 C.F.R. § 2634.904(b). The SGE must submit the
   standardized OGE Form 450 and any OGE-approved supplement, unless the
   SGE's agency has received approval to use an alternative reporting
   system. 5 C.F.R. §§ 2634.907(standard form prescribed by OGE); §
   2634.905(c) (OGE- approved alternative). However, SGEs may not use the
   standardized OGE Optional Form 450-A (Confidential Certificate of No
   New Interests). 5 C.F.R. § 2634.905(d)(1). SGEs must file a new entrant
   report no later than 30 days after assuming the position or office. 5
   C.F.R. §§ 2634.903(b)(1). However, an SGE serving on an advisory
   committee may be required to file even earlier, i.e., before any advice
   is rendered by the individual and prior to the first meeting of the
   committee. 5 C.F.R. § 2634.903(b)(3). SGEs do not file incumbent
   confidential reports. Instead, they are required to file an additional
   new entrant report each year, upon their "reappointment or
   redesignation" as an SGE for a new 365-day period. 5 C.F.R. §
   2634.903(b)(1). In cases where an SGE is appointed for a term in excess
   of one year, the agency still must at least "redesignate" the
   individual as an SGE annually by estimating the number of days the
   employee is expected to serve in the next 365-day period (as discussed
   in more detail under "Definition of SGE" above). Ordinarily, this would
   mean that each SGE with a multiyear term would file an additional new
   entrant report each year within 30 days of the anniversary of that
   employee's appointment date. However, OGE recognizes that agencies with
   many SGEs might have to keep track of multiple filing dates for these
   "follow-on" reports, corresponding to the multiple appointment
   anniversaries of different SGEs. Therefore, in order to reduce
   administrative burden, OGE permits agencies to specify one date each
   year on which to collect follow-on new entrant reports from all SGEs
   (or discrete groups of SGEs, such as all members of a given advisory
   committee) who serve for terms in excess of one year. OGE DAEOgram
   DO-95-019 (April 11, 1995). 20 Finally, an SGE may be excluded from any
   confidential reporting requirement, under appropriate circumstances. An
   agency may exclude an SGE from such reporting requirements where it
   determines, based on the duties of the SGE's position, that: (1) the
   possibility of a real or apparent conflict of interest is remote, or
   (2) the SGE's level of responsibility is sufficiently low to make
   reporting unnecessary. 5 C.F.R. § 2634.905(a),(b). 21
