http://www.rtc.wa.gov/reports/index.html

   [rtcbanner.gif]

                                 Final Reports

     [getacro.gif] Reports presented on this page, and elsewhere on this
     site, have been prepared with Adobe® Acrobat®. You may download
     Adobe Acrobat Reader, free of charge if you don't already have it.

  Transportation System Monitoring and Congestion Management Report, May 2001

     The Congestion Management Monitoring project focuses on delivering
     improved transportation system performance information to
     decision-makers who must identify the most cost-effective strategies
     for addressing transportation congestion and improving mobility.
     This project consists of collecting additional transportation data,
     analyzing transportation system performance, and annual preparation
     of a System Performance Report. The performance measures considered
     for this project include a corridor congestion ratio, speed as
     percent of speed limit, auto vehicle occupancy, truck percentage,
     transit seat capacity used, and other transportation measures.

     The Final Report is 53 pages and the download is 6.0Mb.

  I-5 HOV Corridor Operational Study,
  April 2000

     The I-5 HOV Corridor Operational Study investigated the feasibility
     and operations of a bi-state HOV facility in the I-5 corridor. The
     study was conducted in two phases. The first phase analyzed and
     identified a range of feasible HOV lane configurations for detailed
     operational analysis. While Phase I examined several configurations,
     the key to this portion of the study was an assessment on the
     feasibility of a reversible lane across the Interstate Bridge that
     will allow new HOV capacity without reducing general purpose
     capacity. The second phase of the study was the development of an
     HOV implementation plan. Phase II included a micro traffic
     operational analysis, the development and design of an HOV lane
     configuration in the I-5 corridor, an estimate of capital and
     operating costs, and a public information program, including a Clark
     County transportation survey.

     The Final Report (PDF) is 100 pages and the download is 1.7Mb. The
     I-5 High-Occupancy Vehicle Operational Study Executive Summary with
     Technical Advisory Committee Findings (HTML) is also available
     online. The study concluded with a recommendation to implement a
     southbound high occupancy vehicle lane in the corridor during the
     morning commute period in conjunction with the I-5 widening
     construction project. The Vancouver HOV Lane Project is scheduled to
     open in Fall 2001.

  Metropolitan Transportation Plan,
  2000 Amendment

     The Metropolitan Transportation Plan (MTP) for Clark County is the
     region's principal transportation planning document. It represents a
     regional transportation plan for the metropolitan area of Clark
     County, developed through a coordinated process between local
     jurisdictions in order to develop regional solutions to
     transportation needs.

     The Final Report is 115 pages and the download is 3.2Mb. You may
     also download individual chapters from the MTP outline.

  Portland/Vancouver I-5 Trade Corridor Study,
  Summary Report, December 1999

     Nowhere in the region is the cost of delay more apparent than on
     Interstate 5 from Portland to Vancouver. Interstate 5 is critical to
     the regional, state, and national economy. It is the most
     significant freight freeway on the West Coast linking markets in
     Canada, the United States, and Mexico. It is also the busiest
     commuter roadway in the region, linking the region's two largest
     cities.

     The region's transportation policy-makers appointed a 14-member
     Leadership Committee and asked them to examine the problems in the
     I-5 Trade Corridor and to address the following questions. What is
     the magnitude of the problem? What are the costs of inaction? What
     improvements are needed? How can they be funded? What are the next
     steps? This report is the Leadership Committee's response to the
     charge.

     The Summary Report is 8 pages and the download is 243Kb.

  Clark County High Occupancy Vehicle Study,
  June 1999

     The purpose of the study was to develop a High Occupancy Vehicle
     region-wide system plan for Clark County that defines policies and
     objectives, identifies the need and benefits, and identifies the
     location of possible corridors and/or facilities. HOV lanes are
     travel lanes that are dedicated for use by carpools or buses; they
     are essentially for use by vehicles that carry more than one
     passenger. An HOV program can improve overall mobility in the most
     congested parts of our region by increasing the people-moving
     efficiency and capacity of freeway and arterials.

     The study recommendations are made up of three elements: 1) goals
     and policies of a Clark County HOV System, 2) HOV System Plan, and
     3) next steps, including a detailed examination for the
     implementation of an HOV facility in the I-5 corridor.

     The Final Report is 79 pages and the download is 1.7Mb.

   [divider.gif]

   Send mail to webmaster@rtc.wa.gov with questions or comments about this
                                  web site.
     Copyright ©1992-2002, Regional Transportation Council, All Rights
                                  Reserved.
                This page was last updated January 08, 2002.
