http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2002/01/0015.htm

   [image002.jpg]


                                     of

Release No. 0015.02


                   Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman

Remarks to the National Association of Wheat Growers 2002 Wheat Industry
Conference and Exposition

Wednesday, January 16, 2001

                                    - - -



   :                       “ Thank you so much, Colleen, for that very
   kind introduction.  We really appreciate the job you're doing as the
   new president of the Farm Broadcasters.  You know, Farm Broadcasters
   came to Washington last year early in my term, and I had the
   opportunity, and they were very proud to introduce their incoming
   president, the first woman, as I was being introduced as the first
   woman Secretary of Agriculture.


                           “So we really appreciate the Farm Broadcasters
   and what they do because I think a lot of us don't recognize how much
   the farm broadcasters give us the opportunity to share a message and to
   be there to talk to people all over the country, and we really
   appreciate the job they do.  So thank you.


                           “It is a great pleasure to be here today and to
   be with all of you need to be with these associations and really
   compliment the leadership of all of the associations that are
   represented here today for the work that you do in helping agriculture
   particularly on issues that we deal with in Washington.


                           “I enjoyed the opportunity to spend a little
   quality time outside the nation's capital.  For those of us who do work
   in Washington, it's extremely important to get out and to meet farmers
   and ranchers all over the country and to have the opportunity to really
   talk about the issues that are on people's minds.  So this is a great
   experience for me to be with all of you today.


                           “That reminds me of a story about two members
   of Congress.  They were from the city, and they thought, well, we
   really need to get a feel for the countryside.  So they flew to Kansas,
   and they rented a car, and they started driving across the fruited
   plains.  And they were driving along, and all of a sudden they saw one
   of their congressional colleagues, and he was in a wheat field all by
   himself, and he was sitting in a rowboat.

                           “So they pulled the car over to the side of the
   road, and they got out, and they yelled to their colleague, and they
   said, "What are you doing in that rowboat?"


                           “And he said, "Well, I heard there were oceans
   of wheat out here in Kansas, so I thought I'd come out here and do a
   little fishing."


                           ‘Well, the one Congressman in the car turns to
   the other, and he says, "Well, you know, it's things like this that
   give Washington a bad name."


                           “And the other Congressman in the car says,
   "Yeah.  And, boy, if I knew how to swim, I'd go tell him off."
   (Laughter)


                           “ Like many of you here today, I'm proud of the
   rural upbringing that I had growing up on a small peach farm in a
   little town outside Modesto, California.  The memories that I have from
   that are forever lasting, and the values that we have from the farms
   and ranches is longlasting and really critical to who I think all of us
   are that are in agriculture.  It's the foundation on which our country
   was built.


                           “And what I see in farm communities all across
   the country of people of hope, and faith, and willing to help each
   other all across this great nation.  This was very evident this week,
   earlier this week, when I traveled with the President through
   Illinois.  We visited the John Deere Manufacturing facility there in
   Moline, and then in Missouri meeting with farmers at a local feed mill.


                           “And it was amazing to us to watch to see the
   patriotism and all of the people all along the way where the motorcade
   was going and the spirit that people had, waiving flags, just
   spontaneously like the school kids.  It was quite remarkable.
   Everybody was cheering on the President and showing support for the
   country in what's been just a very critical time since September 11th.


                           “And I must say, and of course I'm a little
   biased, but I just want to ask you, don't you think the President is
   doing a great job? (Applause)


                           “I'll take that as a solid yes, and I also want
   to tell you that the President does send his regards to you.


                           “He told me especially to thank you for all of
   the good work that you do, like growing the wheat that goes into make
   pretzels. (Laughter)


                           “I traveled with the President on Air Force One
   on Monday, as we went out to Illinois, and there was a pretzel that
   fell into the aisleway, and three Secret Service agents fell on it
   right away. (Laughter)


                           “When we were examining this issue a little
   more closely after the incident on Sunday night, and we figured out
   that the problem with the pretzel was that we believe it might have
   been made with Canadian wheat. (Laughter) (Applause)


                           “ But, seriously, the President looks great.
   He was doing great.  The incident did not impact him at all.


                           “During this trip, he was focused on the
   economy, and trade and particularly the importance of trade and the
   economy to farmers.  When you look back, a lot has changed in the past
   year, but not President Bush's commitment to ensuring that American
   agriculture remains a vibrant cornerstone of our nation's economy.


   Let me assure you this administration remains committed to working with
   Congress to complete a farm bill quickly, one that will provide
   agriculture some certainty and to ensure that our farmers and ranchers
   have the assistance they need.

                           “President Bush sincerely believes in
   bipartisanship when it comes to moving America forward.  And in this
   case, the President has insisted upon a bipartisan bill, a bill that is
   based on sound principles, one that is generous, but affordable, and is
   consistent with the congressional budget agreement that was reached
   last year.


                           “The farm bill must provide a reasonable safety
   net for producers without encouraging overproduction, thereby creating
   lower prices.  The farm bill must also support our strong commitment to
   international trade, and it should strengthen conservation programs to
   encourage good stewardship on working farmland, and the bill should
   establish farm savings accounts to help farmers manage risk.  This is
   particularly important for small acreage farmers who sometimes are left
   behind.


                           “The administration has supported the farm bill
   approach in the Senate that's been introduced by two well-respected
   farm state legislators, Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi and Pat
   Roberts of Kansas.  Their approach is fair and responsible and would
   help a broad range of farmers and ranchers across the country.


                           “And we look forward to the return of  Congress
   next week and hope that we can then forge a bipartisan consensus on a
   new farm bill.  It's a new year, and there are events from the last
   year that I hope we will never relive.  There are lessons that I hope
   we will never forget.  Foremost among them there are no challenges we
   cannot overcome, as long as we remain alert, tenacious and work
   together to forge solutions.


                           “Last year we were threatened by the outbreak
   of karnal bunt in your industry, but we didn't let that paralyze the
   industry.  We quarantined--there's something going on back here.  I
   don't quite know what it is--we quarantined counties quickly, we
   provided compensation to producers, we established a team to coordinate
   a federal-state response to work with the industry, and the same was
   true when we saw the outbreak of foot and mouth disease and the spread
   of mad cow disease in other parts of the world.


                           “Those situations could have been disastrous to
   our farmers and ranchers had they spread to America's shores.  But we
   were vigilant, we kept our guard up, and we remain steadfast today.


                           “It's interesting, the last time I had the
   privilege of addressing this group was at your conference in San Diego,
   I think, in 1997, maybe 4 years ago or so.  And at that time, I was
   Secretary of the California Department of Food and Agriculture, and I
   remember that speech well because it was the first time I'd had the
   opportunity to speak to the wheat growers since the outbreak of karnal
   bunt in California and a few other states, something that we had not
   previously with.  And I remember taking the opportunity at that time to
   talk about the importance of pest and disease programs.  Little did I
   know at that time that they would occupy much of my first year in
   office as Secretary of Agriculture, nor would I have ever imagined at
   that time that I would become Secretary of Agriculture.


                            “I think today we are more focused than ever
   on these critical kinds of programs.  We think more needs to be done,
   particularly if we look at the next farm bill, to ensure that these
   types of infrastructure programs are enhanced over the long term.  The
   very livelihood of America's farmers and ranchers depends on
   it.


                           “In the past year we have continuously reviewed
   all of our systems to ensure that they protect against any potential
   outbreaks, and we have responded appropriately, and we have worked to
   find ways to respond appropriately should we ever face an emergency.


                           “We have strengthened our state and Federal
   partnerships to ensure that protection systems and staffing at the
   local levels are fully adequate.


                           “We are constantly examining the best and most
   responsible ways to accomplish these tasks and keep our safeguards
   strong and up to date.  Whether we like it or not, that's the reality,
   and most particularly the reality in the post-September 11th world.


                           “Much has been said about how the world has
   changed in the past four months.  You still hear the word crisis used a
   lot, as in world crisis, or America's crisis of character.  You might
   be interested to know that the Chinese word for crisis is made of two
   characters.  One symbolizes danger, the other opportunity.  And I think
   we can say the same about American agriculture.  Our industry, our way
   of life, is always in danger.  Yet there is a tremendous opportunity as
   we open up new markets and tear down old barriers.


                           “That is America's new mission, protecting
   against danger and seizing opportunity, and we will prevail.


                           “That's why USDA has been working closely with
   Governor Tom Ridge and the Office of Homeland Security, as well as
   other Federal and state agencies, and that's why when the President
   last week signed the new law bolstering America's defense, it was
   critical that it included strong commitment to bolstering those
   security efforts here at home.


                           “That's what we're doing at USDA.  With the
   bill signed last week, we're increasing spending by more than $300
   million to further strengthen food safety and plant and animal tests
   and disease protection and research.


                           “We have fully funded our food safety
   inspection systems and have more than 7600 inspectors throughout the
   country working to ensure a safe food supply.  And we are modernizing
   our labs and making sure that those facilities are safe and secure
   because they provide such a service to American agriculture.


                           “When it comes to our industry, the old adage
   is true.  The best offense is a good defense.  But that doesn't mean we
   can afford to become insular or become latter day fortress America.
   Opportunity abounds right here in this hemisphere and all around the
   globe.


   “As many of you are aware, this is my second tour of duty at USDA,
   having also served the first -- under the first President Bush, we
   called him Bush 41 as opposed to Bush 43.  A lot has changed over the
   past decade, even as the President's last name has not.  It's a new
   century and a new age defined by the internet and instant messages.
   Farmers now buy inputs over the computer, manage their land with the
   help of satellite technology, and follow market news on line.  We see
   more opportunity throughout the future.


                           “I often like to talk about the success of the
   Dakota Growers Pasta Company.  It is the first fully integrated
   entirely farmer-owned pasta plant and in just eight short years its
   success and innovation have made it the third largest pasta
   manufacturer in North America, a real tribute to the -- I see somebody
   back there must be a member.  But a real tribute to what the wheat
   farmers of this country can do when they come together.


                           “This company is also understanding the
   importance of the international marketplace and selling in the export
   markets.


                           “When we looked back 10 years ago, America had
   yet to see the benefits of the NAFTA or of the Uruguay Round that was
   negotiated under the general agreement on tariffs and trade.  Now we're
   only two years into the 21st century, and yet it's evident that these
   times are defined by competition.  There's competition, you see it
   every night on the news, freedom versus terrorism.


                           “There's more competition in the market.  It's
   a global competition for expanding free markets.


                           “Consider the importance of the overseas
   markets to us today.  As you know, about half of our wheat crop in the
   United States is sold in the international marketplace.  So is 40
   percent of all the cotton we produce, a third of the soybeans, and a
   fifth of the corn.  You heard that correctly.  Half of the wheat you
   produce is sold for export.


                           “I know there are cynics who think that
   overseas trade is an overblown notion.  They say we should be talking
   instead about how we can help the American farmer, but as the President
   continues to say, pursuing new trade accords and opening new markets is
   in the farmers' best interest.  Our farmers are the most competitive
   and the most innovative of anywhere in the world.  We shouldn't be
   afraid to compete, but we must fight hard to open new markets and
   ensure a level playing field.


                           “Let me give you an example of why this is so
   important.  A little over a decade ago McDonald's started selling fast
   food in Chile.  But today, if you order a burger and fries in Santiago,
   odds are that it may not be American wheat in your hamburger bun or
   french fries made from Idaho potatoes.


                           “While we, as America, have been talking about
   a free trade agreement with Chile for 10 years, Canada acted.  They now
   have preferential tariff access into that country, and they are taking
   market share away from us in wheat, and potatoes, and other items.


                           “That's simply not acceptable.  President Bush
   and this administration are going to change that so that our farmers
   aren't left behind and forced to suffer the consequences.  But to do
   that, we need the appropriate tools, and one of those is trade
   promotion authority.  We're hopeful that the Senate will follow the
   leadership of the House of Representatives and pass trade promotion
   authority soon after they come back later next week.


                           “Simply put, trade boils down to supply and
   demand.  We cannot consume what we produce in this country.  And
   there's demand for wheat overseas, so we have to look to open new
   markets.  China, of course, offers great hope, and its entry into the
   World Trade Organization opens the door to greater markets and more

   consumers, particularly the emerging middle class that's growing all
   around the world, but particularly in China.


                            “As these new consumers develop and economies
   improve around the world, they are better able to buy our food
   products, and I can't think of anyone else who stands to reap those
   benefits more than the American farmer.


                           “The International Food Policy Research
   Institute predicts that by 2020, 85 percent of all new global demand
   for cereals and meat will be in developing countries.  Reaching into
   these growing markets, getting access to their burgeoning middle-class
   consumers will be key to expanding U.S. agricultural exports.


                           “Trade is the future.  That's where America's
   farmers will find growth and prosperity.  But as the great football
   coach, George Allen, likes to say, "The future is now."  What we do
   today to gain greater access to markets not only will enrich your
   lives, but will provide security to future generations of farmers to
   come.


                           “Removing trade barriers around the world is
   fundamental to the long-term prosperity of the U.S. food and
   agriculture sector.  We must work to get more access to these markets.
   Why?  Because, as each barrier falls, a window of opportunity opens.

                           “This past year we launched an historic new
   round of trade negotiations, and agriculture is at the heart of those
   discussions.  We went into the negotiations in Doha seeking to tear
   down the walls that other countries have built that hurt our farmers,
   particularly the large export subsidies of the European Union.  And we
   came home with a victory, a solid framework that sets a positive stage
   for future agriculture negotiations and future wheat sales.


                           “The Doha declaration sends a powerful signal
   that the world trading nations support peaceful and open exchange.
   They reject the closed minds and closed markets that are
   protectionism.  We now have a clear direction and ambitious objectives
   for agriculture trade reform to substantially reduce tariffs and
   increase market access, to work toward the elimination of export
   subsidies and to reduce trade-distorting domestic support.


                           “One of the more immediate effects, and this is
   the area of trade and the environment, the Doha agreement closed the
   door on the use of environmental measures as unfair trade practices.
   And the entry of China and Taiwan into the WTO, voted on during the
   Doha meeting, represents a significant milestone in furthering the
   cause of open markets, rules-based systems for trade, and opportunities
   for U.S. farmers and exporters.


                           “The entry of these two countries will boost
   food and agriculture sales as much as $2.5 billion a year for America's
   farmers, and that's the kind of progress that we all support.  This
   appeals to us because we are capitalists by practice and competitive by
   nature.



                           “Maybe you've heard the story about the Texas
   farmer who visited one of his counterparts in Australia.  This Aussie
   farmer takes the Texas farmer out into a wheat field, but the Texan
   isn't impressed.  He says, "Texas wheat fields are twice as big and the
   wheat is twice as high."


                           “Well, then they look at cattle, and the Texan
   isn't impressed.  They don't raise longhorns in Australia.


                           “Then, a kangaroo goes hopping by, and the
   Texan is confused.  His Australian friend says, "You mean you don't
   have grasshoppers in Texas?" (Laughter)


                           “ Today, the world is seeing a different side
   of the American farmer, the same side that emerged after the two World
   Wars, when humanitarian aid meant not only repairing cities and roads,
   but putting food on the tables.  Our farmers are prominent in
   international relief efforts, and wheat, of course, plays a key role.


                           “Maybe you've seen the pictures of the mounds
   of white bags of wheat with the big blue USA labels being loaded onto
   trucks in Peshawar for the journey to Afghan women and children.  Wheat
   just happens to be the traditional food of Afghanistan.  And for
   America, helping others in need is our tradition and our obligation, as
   the world's Super Power.


                           “I know that that makes you proud, and you
   should be.  It's your products that's helping that country.  It's your
   work that underscores the good that lies in the heart of this nation.


                           “Friends, I ask that you think about American
   agriculture, about its traditions firmly rooted in the past, but just
   as important is its vast potential in this, the next great American
   century.  What's needed is a cooperative effort.  Together we must
   build a consensus that moves agriculture policy in a direction that is
   forward-looking in its vision and global in its perspective.


                           “And together we must pay greater attention to
   the compatibility of domestic farm programs and our international
   undertakings and activities, helping our industry at home, while
   aggressively marketing our goods abroad.


                           “As we make the choices today that shape the
   future, let us not forget what worked for the American farmer in the
   past, the values and principles that sustained us through the good
   times, as well as through the depths of recession.  That means pursuing
   a course that gives American farmers and ranchers an opportunity for
   reliable economic growth and sustainable use of our natural resources.


                           “We can achieve this when Congress returns from
   recess and do so by passing a bipartisan farm bill that will best help
   America's farmers and ranchers for the foreseeable future.  By working
   together, there is no challenge that, together, we cannot overcome,
   whether that challenge is a new solid farm bill or opening global
   markets.


                           “The world has changed dramatically since the
   tragedies of September 11th.  Today, America stands firmly united.  We
   are a proud nation, strong and enduring.  We care deeply about our
   fellow neighbors and lend a helping hand when it is needed.  I believe,
   and I know that the President believes, that the American spirit is
   vibrant in our rural communities in the heartland, where farmers and
   ranchers work to cultivate our land, to feed and clothe our citizens
   and those around the world.


                           “Now it's time to put our national unity to its
   best use, to liberate the world from its oppressors and here at home to
   guarantee that America remains the world's standard-bearer of
   opportunity and prosperity.


                           “Thank you for your contributions to this great
   country, and thank you very much for allowing me to be with you today.”
   (Applause)



                                      #
