http://www.nceb.uscourts.gov/download.htm

   EDNC Bankruptcy Seal

   Home

                               Downloads Page

   DISCLAIMER: All of these software utilities have been tested to work
   accurately with our system, and have been virus checked. These programs
   and files are provided as courtesy only and the court assumes no
   responsibility or legality nor should any be inferred. By downloading
   these files you accept the responsibilty for their compatibility and
   legality on your computer systems. Also, the court will NOT provide
   support for any of the software. Every effort has been made to insure
   its legitamacy and accuracy.

   The appearance of the Macromedia Flash, Adobe Acrobat, Lotus Image
   Viewer, and WinZip hyperlink does not constitute endorsement by the
   U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of North Carolina, of these web
   sites or the information, products or services offered, for other than
   authorized activities such as downloading the Macromedia Flash, Adobe
   Acrobat Reader, Lotus Image Viewer and WinZip software. The Macromedia
   Flash Player is available free from Macromedia at
   http://www.macromedia.com.  Click on the hyperlink to obtain the Flash
   Player specific to your operating system and hardware environment.  The
   Adobe Acrobat Reader is available free from Adobe at
   http://www.adobe.com. Click on the hyperlink to obtain the Adobe
   Acrobat software specific to your operating system and hardware
   environment. The Lotus Image Viewer is available free from our website,
   or you may vist http://www.lotus.com. Click the link below to initiate
   a download. The WinZip software is available from Nico Mak Computing,
   Inc., http://www.winzip.com. Click on the hyperlink to
   purchase/download the current or evaluation version of WinZip.

   By clicking any of the links below, you will be leaving the web page of
   United States Bankruptcy Court - Eastern District of North Carolina.
   The hypertext links or pointers below contain information created and
   maintained by other public and private organizations.   These links and
   pointers are provided for the user's convenience.  The United States
   Bankruptcy Court - Eastern District of North Carolina does not control
   or guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of
   this outside information.


                            Bankruptcy Downloads

   Creditor Matrix Program

   Just click to download to your local machine.  File is
   self-extracting.  You can choose what directory to install (default is
   C:\Windows\Temp) and then run Setup.exe (Installation instructions are
   included in file)

   Please be sure to follow the Matrix Instructions!!!

   Adobe Acrobat

   Used to view .pdf files on our site
   (EX: calendars, forms)

   Winzip

   Used to extract large files that have been packed together for ease of
   downloading
   (EX: Creditor Matrix Program, and Lotus Image Viewer)

   Lotus Image Viewer

   Used to view image files
   (EX: Imaged Docket entries)
   Get Flash Macromedia Flash Player

   For viewing multimedia and animated sequences on our site.

   Microsoft Internet Explorer

   The latest browsers of choice

   Netscape Navigator


   Thanks for visiting the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District
    of North Carolina's website. We hope you find the information on our
    web page useful. If you have any questions, comments or suggestions,
   please E-mail us! PLEASE NOTE:  Send all case specific inquiries to the
                          party handling the case.
