http://www.ngisc.gov/reports/ngisc-frr.pdf

   NGISC REPORT RECOMMENDATIONS June 18, 1999 Chapter 3. Regulating
   Gambling 3-1 The Commission recommends to state governments and the
   federal government that states are best equipped to regulate gambling
   within their own borders with two exceptions-tribal and Internet
   gambling. (See separate recommendations on tribal and Internet gambling
   in their respective sections.) 3-2 The Commission recommends that all
   legal gambling should be restricted to those who are at least 21 years
   of age and that those who are under 21 years of age should not be
   allowed to loiter in areas where gambling activity occurs. 3-3 The
   Commission recommends that gambling "cruises to nowhere" should be
   prohibited unless the state from which the cruise originates adopts
   legislation specifically legalizing such cruises consistent with
   existing law. 3-4 The Commission recommends that warnings regarding the
   dangers and risks of gambling, as well as the odds where feasible,
   should be posted in prominent locations in all gambling facilities. 3-5
   The Commission recognizes the difficulty of campaign finance reform in
   general and an industry-specific contribution restriction in
   particular. Nonetheless, the Commission believes that there are sound
   reasons to recommend that states adopt tight restrictions on
   contributions to state and local campaigns by entities-corporate,
   private, or tribal-that have applied for or have been granted the
   privilege of operating gambling facilities. 3-6 The Commission received
   testimony that convenience gambling, such as electronic devices in
   neighborhood outlets, provides fewer economic benefits and creates
   potentially greater social costs by making gambling more available and
   accessible. Therefore, the Commission recommends that states should not
   authorize any further convenience gambling operations and should cease
   and roll back existing operations. 3-7 The Commission recommends that
   betting on collegiate and amateur athletic events that is currently
   legal be banned altogether. 3-8 The Commission recommends that in
   states where there is little regulatory oversight for organizations
   contracted to help manage or supply the lottery, states should put all
   individuals, entities, and organizations involved with managing or
   supplying the lottery through a rigorous background check and licensing
   process. 3-9 The Commission recommends to states with lotteries that
   the states should publicly develop and review model regulations for
   their lottery in the form of "best practices," designed to be adopted
   legislatively. 3-10 The Commission urges states with lotteries to not
   allow instant games that are simulations of live card and other
   casino-type games. Generally, the outcome of an instant game is
   determined at the point of sale by the lottery terminal that issues the
   ticket. 3-11 The Commission recommends that all relevant governmental
   gambling regulatory agencies should ban aggressive advertising
   strategies, especially those that target people in impoverished
   neighborhoods or youth anywhere. 3-12 The Commission recommends that
   states should refuse to allow the introduction of casino-style gambling
   into pari-mutuel facilities for the primary purpose of saving a 1
   pari-mutuel facility that the market has determined no longer serves
   the community or for the purpose of competing with other forms of
   gambling. 3-13 The Commission recommends to state and tribal
   governments, the NCAA, and other youth, school, and collegiate athletic
   organizations that because sports gambling is popular among adolescents
   and may act as a gateway to other forms of gambling, such organizations
   and governments should fund educational and prevention programs to help
   the public recognize that almost all sports gambling is illegal and can
   have serious consequences. The Commission recommends that this effort
   should include public service announcements, especially during
   tournament and bowl game coverage. The Commission recommends that the
   NCAA and other amateur sports governing bodies adopt mandatory codes of
   conduct regarding sports gambling education and prevention. The
   Commission also calls upon the NCAA to organize America's research
   universities to apply their resources to develop scientific research on
   adolescent gambling, sports gambling, and related research. 3-14 The
   Commission recommends that each gambling operation, state lottery,
   tribal government, and associations of gambling organ- izations
   voluntarily adopt and then follow enforceable advertising guidelines.
   These guidelines should avoid explicit or implicit appeals to
   vulnerable populations, including youth and low-income neighborhoods.
   Enforcement should include a mechanism for recognizing and addressing
   any citizen complaints that might arise regarding advertisements.
   Additionally, the Commission recommends that Congress amend the federal
   truth-in-advertising laws to include Native American gambling and
   state- sponsored lotteries. 3-15 The Commission recommends that
   Congress should delegate to the appropriate federal agency the task of
   annually gathering data concerning lottery operations in the United
   States, including volume of purchase; demographics of lottery players
   and patterns of play by demographics; nature, content, accuracy, and
   type of advertising spending regarding problem and pathological
   gamblers; spending on regulation; and other relevant matters. 3-16 The
   Commission recommends that states and tribal governments should conduct
   periodic reassessments of the various forms of gambling permitted
   within their borders for the purpose of determining whether the public
   interest would be better served by limiting, eliminating, or expanding
   one or more of those forms. 3-17 The Commission recommends that
   federal, state, and tribal gambling regulators should be subject to a
   cooling-off period that prevents them from working for any gambling
   operation subject to their jurisdiction for a period of 1 year.
   Federal, state, or tribal lottery employees should be subject to a
   cooling-off period that prevents them from working for any supplier of
   lottery services for a period of 1 year. 3-18 The Commission recommends
   that jurisdictions considering the introduction of new forms of
   gambling or the significant expansion of existing gambling operations
   should sponsor comprehensive Gambling Impacts statements. Such analyses
   should be conducted by qualified independent research organizations and
   should encompass, in so far as possible, the economic, social, and
   regional effects of the proposed action. 3-19 The Commission recommends
   that states with lotteries reduce their sales dependence on low-income
   neighborhoods and heavy players in a variety of ways, including
   limiting advertising and number of sales outlets in low-income areas. 2
   3-20 The Commission recommends that states with lotteries create a
   private citizen oversight board. The board would make data-based policy
   decisions on types of games to offer, marketing strategies to follow,
   etc. 3-21 The Commission recognizes that lotteries and convenience
   gambling may play a significant role in the development of youth
   gamblers. Further, with respect to all forms of legal and illegal
   gambling, the Commission recommends that all relevant governmental
   gambling regulatory agencies enact and enforce harsh penalties for
   abuse in this area involving underage gamblers. Penalties and
   enforcement efforts regarding underage gambling should be greatly
   increased. 3-22 Heavy governmental promotion of lotteries, largely
   located in neighborhoods, may contribute disproportionately to the
   culture of casual gambling in the United States. The Commission,
   therefore, recommends that states curtail the growth of new lottery
   games, reduce lottery advertising, and limit locations for lottery
   machines. Chapter 4. Problem and Pathological Gambling The Commission
   respectfully recommends that all governments take every step necessary
   to implement all relevant components of the recommendations listed here
   before lotteries or any other form of legalized gambling is allowed to
   operate or to continue to operate. Such requirements should be
   specifically itemized in a state statute as applicable to a state-run
   lottery. Similarly, such requirements should also be specified and made
   applicable for inclusion in tribal government law and tribal-state
   compacts. 4-1 The Commission respectfully recommends that all relevant
   governmental gambling regulatory agencies require, as a condition of
   any gambling facility's license to operate, that each applicant adhere
   to the following: - Adopt a clear mission statement as to applicant's
   policy on problem and pathological gambling. - Appoint an executive of
   high rank to execute and provide ongoing oversight of the corporate
   mission statement on problem and pathological gambling. - Contract with
   a state-recognized gambling treatment professional to train management
   and staff to develop strategies for recognizing and addressing
   customers whose gambling behavior may strongly suggest they may be
   experiencing serious to severe difficulties. - Under a state "hold
   harmless" statute, refuse service to any customer whose gambling
   behavior convincingly exhibits indications of a gambling disorder. -
   Under a state "hold harmless" statute, respectfully and confidentially
   provide the customer (as described above) with written information that
   includes a state-approved list of professional gambling treatment
   programs and state-recognized self-help groups. - Provide insurance
   that makes available medical treatment for problem and for pathological
   gambling facility employees. 4-2 The Commission recommends that each
   state and tribal government enact, if it has not already done so, a
   gambling privilege tax, assessment, or other contribution on all
   gambling operations within its boundaries, based upon the gambling
   revenues of each operation. A sufficient portion of such monies shall
   be used to create a dedicated fund for the development and ongoing
   support of problem gambling-specific research, prevention, education,
   and treatment programs. The funding dedicated for these purposes shall
   be sufficient to implement the following goals: 3 - Undertake biennial
   research by a nonpartisan firm experienced in problem- gambling
   research to estimate the prevalence of problem and pathological
   gambling among the general adult population. Specific focus on major
   subpopulations including youth, women, elderly, and minority group
   gamblers should also be included. An estimate of prevalence among
   patrons at gambling facilities or outlets in each form of gambling
   should also be included. - Initiate public awareness, education, and
   prevention programs aimed at vulnerable populations. One such purpose
   of such programs will be to intercept the progression of many problem
   gamblers to pathological states. - Identify and maintain a list of
   gambling treatment services available from licensed or state-recognized
   professional providers, as well as the presence of state- recognized
   self-help groups. - Establish a demographic profile for treatment
   recipients and services provided, as state and federal laws permit.
   Develop a treatment outcome mechanism that will compile data on the
   efficacy of varying treatment methods and services offered, and
   determine whether sufficient professional treatment is available to
   meet the demands of persons in need. - When private funding is not
   available, subsidize the costs of approved treatment by licensed or
   state-recognized gambling treatment professionals for problem and
   pathological gamblers as well as adversely affected persons.
   Additionally, such funds shall ensure that persons in need of treatment
   can receive necessary support based upon financial need. Treatment cost
   reimbursement levels and protocols will be established by each state.
   4-3 Despite the fact that pathological gambling is a recognized medical
   disorder, most insurance companies and managed care providers do not
   reimburse for treatment. The Commission recommends to states that they
   mandate that private and public insurers and managed care providers
   identify successful treatment programs, educate participants about
   pathological gambling and treatment options, and cover the appropriate
   programs under their plans. 4-4 The Commission recommends that each
   gambling facility must implement procedures to allow for voluntary
   self-exclusion, enabling gamblers to ban themselves from a gambling
   establishment for a specified period of time. 4-5 The Commission
   recommends encouraging private volunteerism of groups and associations
   working across America to solve problem gambling, especially those
   involving practitioners who are trying to help people who are problem
   gamblers. This should include strategically pooling resources and
   networking, drawing on the lists of recommendations these organizations
   have presented to the Commission, and working to develop uniform
   methods of diagnosis. 4-6 The Commission recommends each state-run or
   approved gambling operation be required to conspicuously post and
   disseminate the telephone numbers of at least two state-approved
   providers of problem-gambling information, treatment, and referral
   support services. Chapter 5. Internet Gambling 5-1 The Commission
   recommends to the President, Congress, and the Department of Justice
   (DOJ) that the federal government should prohibit, without allowing new
   exemptions or the expansion of existing federal exemptions to other
   jurisdictions, Internet 4 gambling not already authorized within the
   United States or among parties in the United States and any foreign
   jurisdiction. Further, the Commission recommends that the President and
   Congress direct the DOJ to develop enforcement strategies that include,
   but are not limited to, Internet service providers, credit card
   providers, money transfer agencies, makers of wireless communications
   systems, and others who intentionally or unintentionally facilitate
   Internet gambling transactions. Because it crosses state lines, it is
   difficult for states to adequately monitor and regulate such gambling.
   5-2 The Commission recommends to the President, Congress, and state
   governments the passage of legislation prohibiting wire transfers to
   known Internet gambling sites or the banks who represent them.
   Furthermore, the Commission recommends the passage of legislation
   stating that any credit card debts incurred while gambling on the
   Internet are unrecoverable. 5-3 The Commission recognizes that current
   technology is available that makes it possible for gambling to take
   place in the home or the office without the participant physically
   going to a place to gamble. Because of the lack of sound research on
   the effects of these forms of gambling on the population and the
   difficulty of policing and regulating to prevent such things as
   participation by minors, the Commission recommends that states not
   permit the expansion of gambling into homes through technology and the
   expansion of account wagering. 5-4 The Commission recommends to the
   President and Congress that because Internet gambling is expanding most
   rapidly through offshore operators, the federal government should take
   steps to encourage or enable foreign governments not to harbor Internet
   gambling organizations that prey on U.S. citizens. Chapter 6. Native
   American Tribal Gambling 6-1 The Commission acknowledges the central
   role of the NIGC as the lead federal regulator of tribal governmental
   gambling. The Commission encourages Congress to assure adequate NIGC
   funding for proper regulatory oversight to ensure integrity and fiscal
   accountability. The Commission supports the NIGC's new Minimum Internal
   Control Standards, developed with the help of the National Tribal
   Gaming Commissioners and Regulators, as an important step to assure
   such fiscal accountability. The Commission recommends that all tribal
   gaming commissions work to ensure that the tribal gambling operations
   they regulate meet or exceed these minimum standards and the NIGC focus
   special attention on tribal gambling operations struggling to comply
   with these and other regulatory requirements. 6-2 The Commission
   recommends that IGRA's classes of gambling must be clearly defined so
   that there is no confusion as to what forms of gambling constitute
   Class II and Class III gambling activities. Further, the Commission
   recommends that Class III gambling activities should not include any
   activities that are not available to other citizens, entities, or
   organizations in a state, regardless of technological similarities.
   Indian gambling should not be inconsistent with the state's overall
   gambling policy. 6-3 The Commission recommends that labor
   organizations, tribal governments, and states should voluntarily work
   together to ensure the enforceable right of free association-including
   the right to organize and bargain collectively-for employees of tribal
   casinos. Further, the Commission recommends that Congress should enact
   5 legislation establishing such worker rights only if there is not
   substantial voluntary progress toward this goal over a reasonable
   period of time. 6-4 The Commission recommends that tribal governments,
   states and, where appropriate, labor organizations should work
   voluntarily together to extend to employees of tribal casinos the same
   or equivalent (or superior) protections that are applicable to
   comparable state or private-sector employees through federal and state
   employment laws. If state employee protections are adopted as the
   standard for a particular tribal casino, then they should be those of
   the state in which that tribal casino is located. Further, the
   Commission recommends that Congress should enact legislation providing
   such protections only if there is not substantial voluntary progress
   toward this goal over a reasonable period of time. 6-5 The Commission
   recognizes that under IGRA, Indian tribes must annually report certain
   proprietary and nonproprietary tribal governmental gambling financial
   information to the NIGC through certified, independently audited
   financial statements. The Commission recommends that certain aggregated
   financial Indian gambling data from reporting tribal governments,
   comparable by class, to the aggregated financial data mandatorily
   collected from commercial casinos and published by such states as
   Nevada and New Jersey should be published by the NIGC annually.
   Further, the Commission recommends that the independent auditors should
   also review and comment on each tribal gambling operation's compliance
   with the Minimum Internal Control Standards promulgated by the NIGC.
   6-6 The Commission recommends that upon written request, a reporting
   Indian tribe should make immediately available to any enrolled tribal
   member the annual certified independently audited financial statements
   and compliance review of the MICS submitted to the National Indian
   Gaming Commission. A tribal member should be able to inspect such
   financial statements and compliance reviews at the tribal headquarters
   or request that they be mailed. 6-7 The Commission recommends that
   tribal and state sovereignty should be recognized, protected, and
   preserved. 6-8 The Commission recommends that all relevant governmental
   gambling regulatory agencies should take the rapid growth of commercial
   gambling, state lotteries, charitable gambling, and Indian gambling
   into account as they formulate policies, laws, and regulations
   pertaining to legalized gambling in their jurisdictions. Further, the
   Commission recommends that all relevant governmental gambling
   regulatory agencies should recognize the long overdue economic
   development Indian gambling can generate. 6-9 The Commission has heard
   substantial testimony from tribal and state officials that uncompacted
   tribal gambling has resulted in substantial litigation. Federal
   enforcement has, until lately, been mixed. The Commission recommends
   that the federal government fully and consistently enforce all
   provisions of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. 6-10 The Commission
   recommends that tribes, states, and local governments should continue
   to work together to resolve issues of mutual concern rather than
   relying on federal law to solve problems for them. 6-11 The Commission
   recommends that gambling tribes, states, and local governments should
   recognize the mutual benefits that may flow to communities from Indian
   gambling. Further, the Commission recommends that tribes should enter
   into reciprocal agreements with state and local governments to mitigate
   the negative effects of the 6 activities that may occur in other
   communities and to balance the rights of tribal, state, and local
   governments; tribal members; and other citizens. 6-12 IGRA allows
   tribes and states to negotiate any issues related to gambling. Nothing
   precludes voluntary agreements to deal with issues unrelated to
   gambling either within or without compacts. Many tribes and states have
   agreements for any number of issues (e.g., taxes, zoning, environmental
   issues, natural resources management, hunting and fishing). The
   Commission recommends that the federal government should leave these
   issues to the states and tribes for resolution. 6-13 The Commission
   recommends that Congress should specify a constitutionally sound means
   of resolving disputes between states and tribes regarding Class III
   gambling. Further, the Commission recommends that all parties to Class
   III negotiations should be subject to an independent, impartial
   decisionmaker who is empowered to approve compacts in the event a state
   refuses to enter into a Class III compact, but only if the
   decisionmaker does not permit any Class III games that are not
   available to other citizens of the state and only if an effective
   regulatory structure is created. 6-14 The Commission recommends that
   Congress should adopt no law altering the right of tribes to use
   existing telephone technology to link bingo games between Indian
   reservations when such forms of technology are used in conjunction with
   the playing of Class II bingo games as defined under the Indian Gaming
   Regulatory Act. 6-15 The Commission recommends that tribal governments
   should be encouraged to use some of the net revenues derived from
   Indian gambling as "seed money" to further diversify tribal economies
   and to reduce their dependence on gambling. Chapter 7 Gambling's
   Impacts on People and Places 7-1 Because the easy availability of
   automated teller machines and credit machines encourages some gamblers
   to wager more than they intended, the Commission recommends that
   states, tribal governments, and pari-mutuel facilities ban credit card
   cash advance machines and other devices activated by debit or credit
   cards from the immediate area where gambling takes place. 7-2 While the
   Commission recognizes that the responsibility for children and minors
   lies first and foremost with parents, it recommends that gambling
   establishments implement policies to help ensure the safety of children
   on their premises and to prevent underage gambling. Policies that could
   be implemented include the following: - Post local curfews and laws in
   public areas and inform guests traveling with minors of these laws. -
   Train employees working in appropriate areas to handle situations
   involving unattended children, underage gambling, and alcohol and
   tobacco consumption or purchase. 7-3 The Commission recommends to
   state, local, and tribal governments that (when considering the
   legalization of gambling or the repeal of gambling that is already
   legal) they should recognize that especially in economically depressed
   communities, casino gambling has demonstrated the ability to generate
   economic development through the creation of quality jobs. 7-4 The
   Commission recommends to state, local, and tribal governments that
   (when considering the legalization of gambling or the repeal of
   gambling that is already legal) they should recognize that lotteries,
   Internet gambling, and non-casino EGD's do not 7 create a concentration
   of good quality jobs and do not generate significant economic
   development. 7-5 The Commission recommends to state, local, and tribal
   governments that (when they are considering the legalization of casino
   gambling) casino development should be targeted for locations where the
   attendant jobs and economic development will benefit communities with
   high levels of unemployment and underemployment and a scarcity of jobs
   for which the residents of such communities are qualified. 7-6 The
   Commission recommends to state, local, and tribal governments that
   studies of gambling's economic impact and studies contemplating the
   legalization of gambling or the repeal of gambling that is already
   legal should include an analysis of gambling industry job
   quality-specifically income, medical benefits, and retirement benefits-
   relative to the quality of other jobs available in comparable
   industries within the labor market. 7-7 The Commission recommends to
   state, local, and tribal governments that when planning for
   gambling-related economic development, communities with legal gambling
   or that are considering the legalization of gambling should recognize
   that destination resorts create more and better quality jobs than
   casinos catering to a local clientele. 7-8 The Commission recommends to
   state, local, and tribal governments that communities with legal
   gambling or that are considering the legalization of gambling should
   look to cooperation between labor unions and management as a means for
   protecting job quality. 7-9 The Commission recommends that students
   should be warned of the dangers of gambling, beginning at the
   elementary level and continuing through college. Chapter 8. Future
   Research 8-1 The Commission recommends that Congress encourage the
   appropriate institutes within the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
   to convene a multidisciplinary advisory panel that will help to
   establish a broad framework for research on problem and pathological
   gambling issues within its range of expertise. 8-2 The Commission
   recommends that Congress direct the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
   Services Administration (SAMHSA) or other appropriate agency to add
   gambling components to the National Household Survey on Drug Abuse. To
   understand the expanding dimensions of problem and pathological
   gambling nationwide, gambling prevalence studies need to be of
   sufficient volume and with annual updates to record changes brought
   about by expanding legalization, greater accessibility, technological
   advances, and increasingly sophisticated games. This survey would
   examine not only the general population but also sizable subgroups like
   youth, women, elderly, and minority gamblers if no other more
   appropriate longitudinal studies focusing on each of these groups are
   available. In any event, no data gathering pursuant to these
   recommendations should violate any person's right to medical privacy in
   seeking treatment for problem or pathological gambling. 8-3 The
   Commission recommends that Congress direct all federal agencies
   conducting or supporting longitudinal research panels to consider the
   feasibility of adding a gambling component to such surveys and, where
   appropriate, entertain applications to add such components that are
   determined to be of high scientific merit through scientific peer
   review. In addition to addressing gambling behavior, these components
   should 8 include questions about treatment-seeking behavior in order to
   begin to address the issue of the unmet need for treatment, which is
   currently unknown. 8-4 The Commission recommends that Congress
   encourage NIH to issue a revision of the special research program
   announcement for research applications on pathological gambling to
   foster research designed to identify the age of initiation of gambling,
   influence of family and correlates with other youth high-risk behavior
   such as tobacco, alcohol, and other drug use, early sexual activity,
   and criminal activity evaluated separately for illegal and legal forms
   of gambling. 8-5 The Commission recommends that Congress direct the
   appropriate institutes of NIH to invite, where appropriate,
   applications for supplemental funds to add legal and illegal gambling
   components of high scientific merit to appropriate and relevant
   existing surveys and to issue a revision of the special program
   announcement for research applications on pathological gambling to
   include the following areas: -Effects on family members, such as
   divorce, spousal and/or child abuse, severe financial instability, and
   suicide. -Analysis of public awareness education and prevention
   programs offered at federal, tribal, state, or corporate levels.
   -Analysis of the development of gambling difficulties associated with
   electronic gambling machines and the risk factors that accompany this
   evolution for customers most likely drawn to this form of gambling.
   -Effects on the workplace, such as economic losses arising from
   unemployment, loss of productivity, and workplace accidents. -A study
   that would establish reliable instruments to measure nonmonetary costs
   associated with legal gambling, including, without limitation, divorce,
   domestic violence, child abuse and chronic neglect, suicide, and the
   secondary effects of bankruptcy and gambling-related crimes, and other
   outcomes of a similar character. 8-6 The Commission recommends that
   Congress direct the appropriate institutes of NIH to invite, where
   appropriate, applications for supplemental funds to issue a revision of
   the special program announcement for research applications to commence
   a study of American adult problem gamblers below the pathological
   gambler threshold (APA DSM IV). The gambling behavior of those in this
   large group of 11 million adults and juveniles reveal warning signs
   that require thorough analysis. The gamblers in this group could go
   either way-that is, toward diminishing risks or toward pathological
   status. 8-7 The Commission recommends that Congress direct SAMHSA or
   other appropriate agency to add specific gambling questions to its
   annual surveys of mental health providers, which are conducted by the
   Center for Mental Health Services. The survey should map the
   availability of both privately and publicly funded treatment services
   for gamblers. This should include a count of treatment slots for
   gambling; how many, in a given period, are in treatment for gambling
   problems alone or for multiple disorders that include problem gambling;
   a demographic profile of those receiving treatment; an assessment of
   the level of the gambling disorder; and a description of the services
   they are receiving. It would identify barriers to treatment, such as a
   lack of insurance coverage, exclusion of treatment for pathological
   gambling from HMO and other private insurance policies, stigmatization,
   or the lack of availability of treatment (including a lack of qualified
   treatment providers). 8-8 SAMHSA or another appropriate agency should
   initiate treatment outcome studies conducted by scientists in the
   treatment research field. Such studies should include formal 9
   treatment, self-help groups (Gamblers Anonymous), and natural recovery
   processes. These studies should encompass the general treatment
   population and should specifically include youth, women, elderly, and
   minority gamblers. 8-9 The Commission recommends Congress request the
   National Science Foundation to establish a multidisciplinary research
   program that will estimate the benefits and costs of illegal and
   separately each form of legal gambling allowed under federal, tribal
   and/or state law, particularly lottery, casino, pari-mutuel, and
   convenience gambling. Further, the research program should include
   estimates of the costs and benefits of legal and illegal Internet
   gambling, assuming Congress prohibits this form of gambling with
   certain exemptions. Such a program, at a minimum, should address the
   following factors: -Benefits associated with different kinds of legal
   and illegal gambling, including increased income, creation of net new
   jobs and businesses, improvement in average wages and benefits,
   increased tax revenues, enhanced tourism and rising property values,
   and reductions in unemployment, if any. -Costs associated with
   different kinds of legal and illegal gambling, including problem and
   pathological gambling; increased crime, suicide, debts, and
   bankruptcies; displacement of native inhabitants; traffic congestion;
   demand for more public infrastructure; and demand for more public
   services from the courts (criminal, bankruptcy, divorce) and from
   schools, police, and fire departments. -The study should include
   benefits derived or costs incurred not only in "host" communities or
   states in which gambling facilities are located, but also in so-called
   feeder communities or states in which a significant number of the
   gamblers live and work who patronize facilities in the host
   communities. 8-10 The Commission recommends that Congress direct NIJ or
   other appropriate agency to research what effect legal and illegal
   gambling have on property and/or violent crime rates. Such research
   should also examine whether gambling-related criminal activity is
   increased in neighboring jurisdictions where the arrest/gambler lives
   and/or works but does not gamble. 8-11 The Commission recommends that
   Congress direct NIJ, the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), or other
   appropriate agencies to add gambling components to ongoing studies of
   federal prison inmates, parolees, and probationers who manifest
   disorders that frequently coexist with pathological gambling. 8-12 The
   Commission recommends that Congress direct NIJ or other appropriate
   agency to investigate and study the extent of adolescent participation
   in illegal gambling and all forms of legal gambling separately.
   Further, that NIJ focus on sports betting in the nation; work
   cooperatively with school authorities at high school and college
   levels; and recommend what effective steps should be taken by federal,
   state, and school authorities to avoid the corruption of collegiate and
   amateur sports and reverse steady increases in adolescent gambling.
   8-13 The Commission recommends that Congress direct the Department of
   Labor or other appropriate agency to research job quality in the
   gambling industry as measured by income levels, health insurance
   coverage and affordability, pension benefits, job security, and other
   similar indicators. The research should include a comparison between
   gambling jobs in a variety of communities and regions of the country.
   It should also compare job quality and availability in the gambling
   industry versus other comparable industries within those labor markets.
   Finally, it should also compare job quality at casinos with
   distinguishing characteristics, such as those that derive a significant
   part of their revenues 10 from non-gambling components-like hotels,
   food, and beverage service and shopping and entertainment (often
   referred to as destination resorts)- versus those dependent almost
   wholly on gambling revenues. 8-14 The Commission recommends that if
   Congress acts to prohibit Internet gambling that it also require NIJ or
   other appropriate agency 12 months after the effective date of the
   enabling statute to measure its effectiveness for a period of 1 year.
   An estimate should be made of how much illegal Internet betting
   continues despite the statutory prohibition. The factors contributing
   to successful evasion of the prohibition should be described in detail.
   Recommendations to Congress as to methods of closing the channels used
   to evade the prohibition should be made. 8-15 The Commission recommends
   that Congress direct the appropriate institutes within NIH to invite,
   where appropriate, applications for supplemental funds to issue a
   revision of the special program announcement for research applications
   to commence a study of prevalence of problem and pathological gambling
   among gambling industry employees in all forms of legal gambling,
   including, without limitation, pari-mutuel, lottery, casino and, where
   feasible, convenience-stop employees. 8-16 The Commission recommends
   that the appropriate institutes conduct research to determine if an
   analysis of available gambling patron data derived from banks and other
   credit agencies can assist in the identification of problem and
   pathological gamblers. 8-17 The Commission respectfully recommends to
   state and tribal governments that they should authorize and fund every
   2 years an objective study of the prevalence of problem and
   pathological gamblers among their state's residents by a nonpartisan
   research firm whose work meets peer review standards. Specific focus on
   major subpopulations including youth, women, elderly, and minority
   group gamblers should also be included. An estimate of prevalence among
   patrons at gambling facilities or outlets in each form of gambling
   should also be included. 8-18 The Commission recommends to state and
   tribal governments that they should authorize and fund research
   programs for those who are or are likely to become problem or
   pathological gamblers in their resident population. 8-19 The Commission
   recommends to state and tribal governments that they should require, as
   a condition of the granting of a license to operate a gambling facility
   or to sell goods or services in a gambling facility, full cooperation
   in any research undertaken by the state needed to fulfill the
   legislative intent of the federal and state statutory policy. 8-20 The
   Commission recommends that state and tribal governments consider
   authorizing research to collect and analyze data that would assess the
   following gambling-related effects on customers and their families
   resident in their jurisdictions: -The extent to which gambling-related
   debt is a contributing factor to personal bankruptcies. -The extent to
   which gambling problems contribute to divorce, domestic violence, and
   child abuse and neglect. -The extent to which gambling problems
   contribute to incidents of suicide (or suicidal behaviors). -The
   number, types, and average monetary values of gambling-related crimes
   perpetrated for the primary purpose of gaining funds to continue
   gambling or to pay gambling debts. -The extent to which practices of
   some gambling facilities to provide free alcohol to customers while
   gambling, the placement of cash advance credit machines 11 close to the
   gambling area, and the offer of similar inducements are likely to be
   significant factors in magnifying or exacerbating a gambling disorder.
   Report Significance The members of the Commission agree that there is a
   need for a "pause" in the growth of gambling. The purpose of the pause
   is not to wait for definitive answers to the subjects of dispute,
   because those may never come. Instead the purpose of this recommended
   pause is to encourage governments to do what, to date, few, if any,
   have done: to survey the results of their decisions and to determine if
   they have chosen wisely; to ask if their decisions are in accord with
   the public good, if harmful effects could be remedied, if benefits are
   being unnecessarily passed up. Because the search for answers takes
   time, some policymakers may wish to impose an explicit moratorium on
   gambling expansion while awaiting further research and assessment. 12
