http://www.psychboard.ca.gov/faqs.htm

   [USEMAP:ca_banner.jpg]
   California Board of Psychology [banner_sub.jpg]

   [menu_top.gif]
   What's New?
   [consumerinfo.gif]
   Administration
   Publications
   Licensing
   Exams License Verification
   Continuing Education
   Enforcement
   Laws and Regulations
   Meetings
   Frequently Asked Questions
   Links site map
   E-mail Us


   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

   1.   Are there any requirements for what needs to be included on the
   business card of a psychological assistant?

   Keep in mind that psychological assistants are not independent
   practitioners and are prohibited from having an independent practice.
   Therefore, psychological assistants must not misrepresent or mislead
   the public regarding their unlicensed status and lawful scope of
   practice. If you have a business card, you must clearly indicate your
   title as "Psychological Assistant." The Board of Psychology would also
   strongly recommend that you include your psychological assistant
   registration number and the name and license number of the person to
   whom you are registered. This should dispel the possible perception
   that you have an independent practice.

   2.   Does the public have access to a licensed psychologist's personal
   information such as a home address?

   The Board of Psychology is required to provide an address of record for
   all licensed psychologists. If the psychologist has chosen to use his
   or her home address as their address of record, this is the address
   that will be given to anyone who calls to verify their license.
   Therefore,if you do not want your home address disclosed, you may
   obtain and use an alternate address such as a business address or a
   post office box as your address of record.

   3.   How many hours of continuing education do I need to accrue in
   order to renew my license?

   Section 2915 of the Business and Professions Code requires that in
   order to renew a psychology license, the licensee must have accrued at
   least 36 hours of qualifying continuing education within the two year
   period immediately preceding the expiration date of the license. If
   this is the psychologist's first renewal and his or her initial license
   was in effect for less than 24 months, the continuing education
   requirements are pro-rated at 1.5 hours per month or partial month. For
   example, if a license was issued February 15, 1998 and is due to expire
   on May 31, 1999, the license will be in effect for 16 months or partial
   months for a total of 24 hours of continuing education required for
   renewal.

   4.   Do I have to take any specific courses to meet the board's
   continuing education requirements?

   Pursuant to section 1397.61(c) of the California Code of Regulations,
   any person renewing his or her license on or after January 1, 2000
   shall provide written evidence to the board of completion of a
   continuing education course of no less than four hours in length in the
   subject of laws and ethics for each license renewal cycle.

   5.   What topics must a laws and ethics continuing education course
   cover?

   As stated in section 1397.61(c) of the California Code of Regulations,
   this course shall cover laws and regulations related to the practice of
   psychology; recent changes/updates in ethics codes and practice;
   current accepted standards of practice; and application of ethical
   principles in the independent practice of psychology.

   6.   Does the Board of Psychology handle complaints involving
   psychologists who perform child custody evaluations?

   The Board of Psychology is required to review and to make a
   determination on every consumer complaint received regardless of the
   subject matter of the complaint. Child custody cases in the Family
   Court can be very contentious and volatile. Frequently, at least one of
   the parties involved in such cases is displeased about the outcome of
   the court's decision regarding custody of children.

   Rule of Court 1257 requires each county in California to establish a
   grievance process to resolve complaints from involved parties in Family
   Court cases. Compliance with this rule is not uniform among the courts.
   This being the case, the dissatisfied parent in a Family Court case
   often resorts to filing a complaint with the Board of Psychology
   against the evaluating psychologist. The board has each such complaint
   reviewed by at least one licensed psychologist who has expertise in
   Family Court issues.

   Keep in mind that the Board of Psychology has no authority to change
   the findings and decision of a Family Court judge regarding custody of
   children. What the board can do is to have each complaint against a
   psychologist who has provided an evaluation in a child custody case
   reviewed by an expert to determine whether the evaluation was conducted
   pursuant to the Code of Conduct and Ethical Principles and to the
   Guidelines for Child Custody Evaluations in Divorce Proceedings
   established by the American Psychological Association (APA). These
   guidelines establish the standard of care for the practice of
   psychology. Pursuant to section 2936 of the Business and Professions
   Code, the board must apply APA standards as the accepted standard of
   care in all enforcement policies and disciplinary case evaluations.
   Therefore, if a child custody evaluation is determined to have been
   conducted within this accepted standard of care, the Board of
   Psychology cannot take administrative action against the psychologist
   performing the evaluation. If it is determined that an evaluation was
   performed outside of this standard of care, then the board has the
   authority to continue with appropriate administrative action. Such
   action may include an intense educational review with the evaluating
   psychologist or formal administrative discipline against the
   psychologist's license depending on how extreme the departure from the
   standard of care was and on the amount of consumer harm that may have
   occurred as a result of the departure.

   The board's action will have no effect on the findings and decision of
   the Family Court judge regarding the custody of the children involved
   in the case.

   7.   If I have taken the Examination for Professional Practice in
   Psychology (EPPP) in the past in some other state or province, how do I
   have my scores reported to California?

   The California Board of Psychology does not accept EPPP score reports
   from any source other than the Licensed Psychologist Data Source
   (LPDS), a subsidiary of the Association of State and Provincial
   Psychology Boards. Just as an official transcript must be sent directly
   from the registrar's office of the university, EPPP score reports must
   be sent directly to the board's offices from the LPDS. You can inquire
   about the score reporting process by calling LPDS at (800) 448-4069.

   8.   If a psychologist is licensed in another state or province, can
   they practice in California prior to obtaining a CA license?

   Section 2946 of the CA Business & Professions Code allows a
   psychologist licensed in another state or province to practice in CA
   for up to 180 days after submitting their application to become
   licensed in CA or from the date they took up residency in CA, whichever
   came first.

   Additionally, section 2912 of the Business & Professions Code allows a
   person licensed as a psychologist in another state or province to
   provide psychological services in CA without obtaining a license for no
   more than 30 calendar days per year.

   9.   I understand that before I can get a psychologist license in CA, I
   need to take a course in human sexuality. Is this true? What are the
   specific requirements and where can I find this in the laws and
   regulations?

   Yes, this is true. Section 25 of the Business and Professions Code
   requires all applicants for license to take such a course prior to
   being issued a psychologist license. Section 1382 of the California
   Code of Regulations further defines this requirement by stating that
   among other things, the course must be taken after 1/1/70, that it be a
   minimum length of 10 contact hours and that the course include the
   study of physiological and social-cultural variables associated with
   sexual identity, sexual behavior or sexual disorders.

   10.   I understand that before I can get a psychologist license in CA,
   I need to take a course in child abuse assessment and reporting. Is
   this true? What are the specific requirements and where can I find this
   in the laws and regulations?

   Yes, this is true. Section 28 of the Business and Professions Code
   requires all applicants for licensure to take such a course prior to
   being issued a psychologist license. This law states that the course
   must be taken after 1/1/83 and that the course be a minimum of 7
   contact hours. This law further requires that the course "include the
   study of the assessment and method of reporting of sexual assault,
   neglect, severe neglect, general neglect, willful cruelty or
   unjustifiable punishment, corporal punishment or injury, and abuse in
   out-of-home care. The training shall also include physical and
   behavioral indicators of abuse, crisis counseling techniques, community
   resources, rights and responsibilities of reporting, consequences of
   failure to report, caring for a child's needs after a report is made,
   sensitivity to previously abused children and adults, and implications
   and methods of treatment for children and adults."
   Section 1387.7 reiterates the requirements set forth in section 28 of
   the B & P Code.

   11.   I understand that before I can get a license as a psychologist in
   California, I need to show evidence of having taken a course in
   substance abuse detection and treatment. Is this true? What are the
   laws and regulations which address this requirement?

   Yes, this is true. Section 2914 (e) of the Business and Professions
   Code requires that every applicant for licensure who began graduate
   training on or after 9/1/85 must show evidence of having completed
   training in the detection and treatment of alcohol and other chemical
   substance dependency. Section 1387.6 of the California Code of
   Regulations further defines this requirement. This regulation requires
   that the course be a semester or quarter in length (or 15 contact
   hours) and lists all of the subjects that the course must cover.

   12.   I understand that before I can get a license as a psychologist in
   California, I need to show evidence of having taken a course in spousal
   or partner abuse assessment, detection, and intervention. Is this true?
   What are the laws and regulations which address this requirement?

   Yes, this is true. Section 2914 (f) of the Business and Professions
   Code requires that all applicants who began graduate training on or
   after 1/1/95 take such a course prior to being issued a psychologist
   license. Effective March 30, 2000, the Board adopted Section 1387.8 of
   the California Code of Regulations which sets forth the specific
   requirements of the course. To review the language of Section 1387.8,
   click here.

   13.   I have heard that psychologists are required by law to post in
   their offices some sort of sign or notice about consumer complaints. Is
   this true?

   Yes, this is true. Section 2936 of the Business & Professions Code
   requires such a notice. The law states, "To facilitate consumers in
   receiving appropriate psychological services, all licensees and
   registrants shall be required to post, in a conspicuous location in
   their principal psychological business office, a notice which reads as
   follows:

   NOTICE: The Department of Consumer Affairs receives questions and
   complaints regarding the practice of psychology. If you have any
   questions or complaints, you may contact this department by calling
   800-633-2322 or (916) 263-2699, or by writing to the following address:
   Board of Psychology, 1422 Howe Avenue, Suite 22, Sacramento CA
   95825-3236."

   14.   Q & A on Revocation: If my license is on probation with the Board
   of Psychology and the disciplinary order which created that probation
   reads "Revocation Stayed," does that mean I have to report that my
   license was revoked?

   No. "Revocation Stayed" means that the revocation did not go into
   effect, but you were placed on probation instead. To insure that there
   is no miscommunication with the entity inquiring about your license
   status, we suggest that you answer any questions by providing a copy of
   the disciplinary order. You should also keep this bulletin to show how
   the Board of Psychology advises you to report the discipline.

   15.   I have a Certificate of Professional Qualification (CPQ) issued
   by the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards (ASPPB).
   What do I need to do to apply for a California license as a
   psychologist?

   Persons holding a Certificate of Professional Qualification will find a
   streamlined process for applying for a California psychology license.
   First, the person needs to submit the application for license including
   the designated fees. The CPQ holder needs to simultaneously be
   fingerprinted at a Livescan location (see Notice: New Fingerprint
   Processes under the "Licensing and Registration" button on the board's
   website). Finally, the person needs to contact ASPPB and ask them to
   send directly to the board official documentation of the CPQ.

   Once all of this information is collected by board staff, the CPQ
   holder will be scheduled to sit for the California Jurisprudence and
   Professional Ethics Written Examination. This is a 100 question
   multiple choice examination which tests for minimal competency in
   California laws and APA ethics.

   In addition to the application for license, fingerprint process, taking
   and passing the Jurisprudence and Professional Ethics Written
   Examination, the CPQ applicant must also submit documentation that
   he/she has taken the applicable courses described in questions 9, 10,
   11, and 12 listed under the "FAQ" button of the board's website.
