http://www.uscourts.gov/Press_Releases/jc901a.pdf

   NEWS RELEASE Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts September 19,
   2001 Contact: David Sellers Judicial Conference Approves
   Recommendations on Electronic Case File Availability and Internet Use
   The Judicial Conference of the United States today concluded business
   suspended following the tragic events of September 11, 2001. In a mail
   ballot of its 27 members, the Judicial Conference adopted policies that
   govern the electronic availability of federal court case file
   information and the workplace use of the Internet by judges and court
   employees. Regarding the use of the Internet by judges and Judiciary
   employees, the Conference took the following actions: · In 2002, a
   review of system architecture will be completed under the Committee on
   Automation and Technology's direction, with a view of possible
   decentralization of Internet access to individual courts in a manner
   consistent with the security of the entire judiciary network. Pending
   the completion of this review, the Judicial Conference reaffirmed (a)
   that computers connected to the data communica- tions network (DCN)
   shall access the Internet only through national Internet gateways; and
   (b) that operations and security at those gateways are under the
   administrative, managerial, and logistical control of the
   Administrative Office, subject to the direction of the Conference or,
   where appropriate, Conference committees. · Immediately adopted, on an
   interim basis, the model use policy developed by the federal Chief
   Infor- mation Officers Council, as later revised by the committee to
   tailor it to the judiciary (except for Section F "Privacy
   Expectations," which will be recommitted to the committee) as a
   national mini- mum standard defining appropriate Internet use, subject
   to the right of each court unit to impose or maintain more restrictive
   policies. In carrying out routine administrative, operational, and
   mainte- nance responsibilities, should instances of possibly
   inappropriate use of government resources come to the attention of the
   management of a court unit or the Administrative Office, established
   Judicial Conference notification policy will be followed. In defining
   "inappropriate personal use," the Confer- ence adopted a definition
   that includes the prohibition of "the creation, downloading, viewing,
   stor- age, copying, or transmission of sexually explicit or sexually
   oriented materials. . .materials related to illegal gambling, illegal
   weapons, terrorist activities, and any other illegal activities or
   activities otherwise prohibited. . .Any personal use that could cause
   congestion, delay or disruption of service to any government system or
   equipment. . . Any use that could generate more than minimal additional
   expense to the government. . . ." (MORE) Washington, D.C. 20544 n Phone
   (202)502-2600 n Fax (202) 502-2633 n www.uscourts.gov Page 2 Judicial
   Conference · Reaffirmed that individual courts have responsibility to
   enforce appropriate use policies and directed that the Administrative
   Office, as part of its regular audit process, examine and comment upon
   the adequacy of the courts' enforcement methods. · Recommitted to the
   Committee on Automation and Technology a recommendation on noticing in
   light of developments in technology and recent concerns raised on
   privacy. · Having discerned no material business use for Gnutella,
   Napster, Glacier, and Quake, all of which raise immediate and
   continuing security vulnerabilities, (a) directed the Administrative
   Office to take appropriate steps to block such traffic involving
   computers connected to the DCN; and (b) delegate to the committee the
   authority to block other tunneling protocol that may cause security
   breaches. Regarding the electronic availability of case files, the
   Conference approved the following policies: · Documents in civil cases
   should be made available electronically to the same extent that they
   are available at the courthouse with one exception (Social Security
   cases should be excluded from elec- tronic access) and one change in
   policy (certain "personal data identifiers" should be modified or
   partially redacted by the litigants; these identifiers are Social
   Security numbers, dates of birth, finan- cial account numbers, and
   names of minor children). · Public remote electronic access to
   documents in criminal cases should not be available at this time, with
   the understanding that this policy will be re-examined within the next
   two years. · Documents in bankruptcy case files should generally be
   made available electronically to the same extent that they are
   available at the courthouse, with a similar policy change for personal
   identifiers as in civil cases. Section 107(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code
   should be amended to establish privacy and security concerns as a basis
   for the sealing of a document, and the Bankruptcy Code and Rules should
   be amended as necessary to allow the court to collect a debtor's full
   Social Security number but display only the last four digits. ·
   Appellate case files should be treated at the appellate level the same
   way in which they are treated at the lower level, which could vary
   depending on whether they were appealed from a U.S. district court or a
   federal agency. (MORE) Page 3 Judicial Conference · Electronic access
   to court docket sheets through PACERNet and to court opinions through
   their respective web sites will not be affected by the new policy.
   Neither will the availability of case files at the courthouse. In other
   action the Conference voted to · Seek an increase of the fees paid to
   jurors who serve in federal court from $40 to $50 a day. Juror fees
   were last increased in December 1990 from $30 to the current rate of
   $40. Prior increases oc- curred in 1978, from $20 to $30, and in 1968,
   from $10 to $20. The proposed increase is for petit and grand jurors.
   The Judicial Conference of the United States is the principal
   policy-making body for the federal court system. The Chief Justice
   serves as the presiding officer of the Conference, which is composed of
   the chief judges of the 13 courts of appeals, a district judge from
   each of the 12 geographic circuits, and the chief judge of the Court of
   International Trade. The Conference meets twice a year to consider
   administrative and policy issues affecting the court system and to make
   recommendations to Congress concerning legislation involving the
   Judicial Branch. A list of Conference members is attached. On September
   11 at 9:30 a.m. the Chief Justice of the United States had convened the
   141st session of the Judicial Conference. The Conference had conducted
   some preliminary business when, at approximately 10:15, the Chief
   Justice announced that the Supreme Court would be evacuated immedi-
   ately and the Conference session suspended. The expectation was that
   the Conference would return the following day to conclude its business.
   As the day went on, it became obvious that a one-day postpone- ment
   would be neither realistic nor appropriate. The next option was to
   reconvene the Conference in Washington sometime in October. The press
   of other business, the identification of a convenient date, and the
   costs associated with such an undertaking made this approach
   problematic. As a result, last week the Chief Justice sent a memo to
   the members of the Conference advising them that the best course would
   be to resolve obviously time-sensitive matters by mail ballot and put
   off until March 2002 other less timely issues. A ballot was sent to
   Conference members on September 13. While the Judicial Conference was
   postponed in March 1993 because of a snow storm, this is the first time
   in its 79 year history that a meeting of the Conference was canceled.
   ### JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES September 2001 Chief
   Justice William H. Rehnquist, Presiding Chief Judge Michael Boudin
   First Circuit Chief Judge D. Brock Hornby District of Maine Chief Judge
   John M. Walker, Jr. Second Circuit Judge Charles P. Sifton Eastern
   District of New York Chief Judge Edward R. Becker Third Circuit Chief
   Judge Sue L. Robinson Delaware Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III
   Fourth Circuit Chief Judge Charles H. Haden II Southern District of
   West Virginia Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King Fifth Circuit Judge
   Hayden W. Head, Jr. Southern District of Texas Chief Judge Boyce F.
   Martin, Jr. Sixth Circuit Judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr. Middle District
   of Tennessee Chief Judge Joel M. Flaum Seventh Circuit Chief Judge
   Marvin E. Aspen Northern District of Illinois Chief Judge Roger L.
   Wollman Eighth Circuit Chief Judge James M. Rosenbaum District of
   Minnesota Chief Judge Mary M. Schroeder Ninth Circuit Judge Lloyd D.
   George* District of Nevada Chief Judge Deanell R. Tacha Tenth Circuit
   Chief Judge Frank Howell Seay Eastern District of Oklahoma Chief Judge
   R. Lanier Anderson Eleventh Circuit Chief Judge Charles R. Butler, Jr.
   Southern District of Alabama Chief Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg District
   of Columbia Circuit Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan District of Columbia
   Chief Judge Haldane Robert Mayer Federal Circuit Chief Judge Gregory W.
   Carman Court of International Trade Conference Secretary: Leonidas
   Ralph Mecham, Director Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts * By
   designation.
