http://www.fbi.gov/pressrel/pressrel02/cjisrelease.htm

   U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation

   For Immediate Release
     January 14, 2002

   Clarksburg, WV
     Multimedia Productions Group
     (304) 625-5820

   The Federal Bureau of Investigation has joined the American Football
     Coaches Association (AFCA) in the distribution of the National Child
     Identification Program (NCIP). The NCIP allows for children,
     beginning at age four to be fingerprinted with the identification
     information being maintained by parents. The announcement came
     during the AFCA's annual convention in San Antonio, Texas.

     The FBI, through its Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS)
     Division, located in Clarksburg, West Virginia, was represented by
     Supervisory Special Agent John S. Hooks, Jr., and William P. Holley,
     Program Manager of the CJIS Division's Community Outreach Program.
     The AFCA was represented by its Executive Director, Grant Teaff, and
     Kenny Hansmire, Director of the AFCA's National Child Identification
     Program. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed formalizing the
     partnership.

     Both the FBI and the AFCA have existing Community Outreach Programs
     that encourage parents and guardians to maintain fingerprints of
     their children in the event they are involved in a disaster or foul
     play. The AFCA has sponsored the National Child Identification
     Program (NCIP) for several years, distributing inkless fingerprint
     kits to enable parents and guardians to fingerprint their children
     for identification purposes. To date, 9,300,000 kits have been
     distributed in the United States, mostly at college football games.
     The largest distribution occurred in Texas when then Governor George
     W. Bush joined the association in soliciting the assistance of Texas
     school districts for statewide fingerprint kit distribution.

     The FBI and other law enforcement agencies have operated similar
     programs for many years with standard fingerprint cards and ink. To
     heighten their efforts, the partnership will promote the
     distribution of the NCIP kits through state and local law
     enforcement agencies. Many of the FBI's 56 Field Offices located
     throughout the United States will partner with college football
     coaches in their territories to facilitate the distribution of the
     inkless NCIP kits.

     According to AFCA Executive Director Grant Teaff, "The AFCA Board of
     Trustees and its members are very excited about working with the FBI
     and are deeply grateful to have an opportunity for doing something
     for the youth of this country that has never been done before."

     "FBI Community Outreach Programs provide crime, drug, gang, violence
     prevention, and educational programs that meet the growing needs of
     our communities. The AFCA is a respected organization with a track
     record of community programs and leadership. The FBI is proud to
     partner with the AFCA in the distribution of the NCIP kits which
     will be an unprecedented addition to our current programs and a
     wonderful benefit to all communities throughout the nation," said
     Supervisory Special Agent Hooks.

   Graphic Bar
   | CJIS Community Outreach Program | 2002 Press Releases | FBI Home Page
                                      |
