http://lite.gsa.gov/orderinguidelines.pdf

   MILLENNIA LITE ORDERING GUIDELINES August 18, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines CONTENTS TOPIC PAGE Chapter 1, Introduction Purpose
   of this Document 4 Background - FASA 4 Overview 6 MILLENNIA LITE's View
   of Best Practices 7 Chapter 2, Ordering Procedures Requirement Analysis
   9 A. Scope 9 B. Constraints 9 C. Deliverable Items 9 D. Applicable
   Standards 10 E. Performance-Based 10 F. Government vs. Contractor
   Responsibilities 11 G. Information 11 H. Staffing 12 Functional Areas
   12 A. Functional Area 1 12 B. Functional Area 2 13 C. Functional Area 3
   14 D. Functional Area 4 14 E. Functional Area 5 15 Contract Type 15 A.
   Firm Fixed-Price Contracts (FFP) 15 B. Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) 16 C.
   Time-and-Materials contracts (T&M) 16 D. Cost-Plus-Award-Fee (CPAF) 17
   Statement of Work (SOW) 18 A. Oral Presentations 18 B. Evaluation
   Criteria 19 C. Method of Award 21 Independent Government Estimate (IGE)
   21 Request For Proposal (RFP) 22 Evaluation of Proposals 23 Negotiation
   and Award 24 A. Awarding Options 25 B. Federal Procurement Data System
   (FPDS) 25 Debriefs 25 Task Order Modifications 26 2 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines APPENDICES Topic Appendix Page
   Contract Administration A 27 GSA Points of Contact B 29 Contractor
   Information C 30 Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) and D 35 Delegation
   of Authority Statement Of Work Template (SOW) E 42 Evaluation Criteria
   F 49 Evaluation Standards, Scoring and Weighting Factors G 52 Notice of
   Incumbency H 60 Fair Consideration I 66 Performance Based Statements of
   Work J 70 Process Flow Charts K 71 Oral Presentations L 72 Debriefs M
   79 Scoring Grids N 81 Method of Award O 82 3 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines CHAPTER 1 Introduction MILLENNIA LITE is a
   multiple award contract vehicle designed to provide the full range of
   Information Technology (IT) support services. Through the use of
   MILLENNIA LITE, clients have a flexible means of meeting IT needs
   quickly, efficiently, and cost effectively. MILLENNIA LITE was designed
   to provide clients with highly skilled, responsible contractors (large,
   small, small women-owned, small disadvantaged and HubZone) who possess
   a wide variety of expertise. Overall responsibility for the MILLENNIA
   LITE contracts rests with the Information Technology Acquisition
   Center, Federal Technology Service of the General Services
   Administration. Purpose of this document This document describes the
   procedures for ordering the contract services of MILLENNIA LITE and
   defines roles and responsibilities of major parties involved therein
   and was designed to give all parties associated with MILLENNIA LITE a
   better understanding of the MILLENNIA LITE contracts. The fundamental
   intent of this document is to provide ordering information about
   MILLENNIA LITE. (NOTE: This document is intended for guidance only. In
   the event that any statement in this document conflicts with the terms
   and conditions of the MILLENNIA LITE contracts, the terms and
   conditions of the contracts take precedence.) Background - FASA The
   Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (FASA) authorizes the use of
   multiple award contracts. These contracts allow the Government to
   acquire an indefinite quantity, within stated limits, of supplies or
   services during a fixed period, with deliveries or performance to be
   scheduled by placing orders with the contractor. Thanks to the
   clarification provided in FASA, agencies can now use these contracts
   with greater confidence and, at the same time, realize the benefits of
   an ongoing competitive environment throughout the duration of the
   contract while minimizing the delays for conducting a separate
   procurement for each requirement. In order for agencies to take
   continuous advantage of the benefits of competition after contract
   award, FASA provides that agencies may make multiple awards of task and
   delivery order contracts for the same or similar supplies or services
   (and from the same solicitation) to two or more sources. The use of
   multiple award contacts allows agencies to take continuous advantage of
   the competitive forces of the commercial marketplace which will result
   in lower prices, better quality, reduced time from requirements
   identification to award, and improved contractor performance in
   satisfying customer requirements. By offering market competition on
   price and technology for each order, multiple award contracting
   provides contracting officers (COs) with the flexibility needed to
   better match the dynamics of the IT market. 4 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines Since MILLENNIA LITE is a multiple award
   vehicle, using MILLENNIA LITE can serve to reduce the overhead
   associated with multiple acquisitions. In addition, aggregation of
   demand provides the Government with buying leverage and encourages
   vendors to offer the best possible prices due to economies of scale.
   This factor is especially effective for maintaining better prices and
   quality. FASA has established a "general" preference for use of
   multiple awards and in doing so: * authorizes deletion of the public
   notice requirement when placing orders, * limits protests in connection
   with the issuance of orders except on the grounds that the order
   increases the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract, and *
   mandates that multiple awardees have a fair opportunity to be
   considered for orders in excess of $2,500. 5 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines Overview Orders from MILLENNIA LITE can be
   placed by GSA for use on its own behalf or on the behalf of client
   agencies. MILLENNIA LITE also provides for direct order/direct bill by
   other agencies who have been given a Delegation of Authority by the
   MILLENNIA LITE Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO). In either case the
   first order of business is to establish the lines of communication, and
   a definition of responsibilities and commitments, for all parties. This
   is done via a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The MOU defines the
   client's responsibilities and commitments when services are obtained
   from GSA and applies to all orders issued for the client. An MOU will
   be signed by GSA and the client prior to the issuance of an order. (See
   Appendix D.) The responsibilities of GSA and client agencies when GSA
   delegates contracting authority to another agency for order placement
   are not to be taken lightly. In fact, ongoing interface and oversight
   on the part of the MILLENNIA LITE ACO (Administrative Contracting
   Officer) is of paramount importance and integral to the successful and
   appropriate use of the MILLENNIA LITE vehicle. This document provides
   information on the key phases of ordering from MILLENNIA LITE.
   Streamlined ordering techniques, such as the use of oral presentations
   and the use of past performance as an evaluation factor, are discussed
   herein. The document also provides information on the "fair opportunity
   to be considered" requirement. It highlights the flexibility agencies
   have in developing the criteria that provide awardees a fair
   opportunity to be considered for orders under multiple award contracts.
   Also, it includes a discussion on the exceptions to fair opportunity.
   All tasks performed under MILLENNIA LITE are initiated through the
   award of task orders by an ACO to a MILLENNIA LITE contractor. The
   following procedures are intended to be a guide through the decision
   making process to the successful award of a task order which ultimately
   gets the work accomplished on time and fully satisfies the technical
   requirements under consideration. Procedural steps are presented as a
   general description of events as they should occur. Agencies, other
   than GSA, who have Delegations of Authority to use MILLENNIA LITE, may
   use unique forms or employ additional procedures to facilitate
   management requirements. A preliminary step before beginning a
   MILLENNIA LITE project is to define the problem and identify the need
   for a solution. All facets of the project from identifying the
   requirements and developing the Statement of Work (SOW) through
   selection of a contractor and awarding the task order to accepting
   deliverables and managing the task closing will be performed. The
   services of a GSA team experienced in managing all of the details of
   MILLENNIA LITE are available to place orders and provide oversight for
   MILLENNIA LITE projects (see Appendix B for GSA Points of Contact). GSA
   is available to assist clients through every step of the process. 6
   August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines MILLENNIA LITE's
   View to Best Practices The ordering guidelines contained herein are in
   concert with the Best Practices guidance of the Office of Federal
   Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget and bring
   particular focus to the following elements: * MILLENNIA LITE
   continuously seeks contractor input to improve the efficiency and
   effectiveness of the ordering process. * MILLENNIA LITE has a
   reasonable number of awards (10-12) within each of the four (4)
   functional areas, which ensures competition but keeps the ordering
   process from being overly burdensome. * MILLENNIA LITE orders are
   processed via the IT-Solutions Shop1, an automated system, to manage
   task order issuance and make the overall ordering process more
   efficient by: * Maintaining a short RFP development and award cycle  14
   days on average; * Increasing communication between industry and
   government; and * Increasing understanding of the requirements through
   a dynamic interactive approach. * MILLENNIA LITE advocates simplified
   procedures and award documentation when issuing orders. * MILLENNIA
   LITE promotes the use of performance-based work statements. * MILLENNIA
   LITE provides for the consideration, advance planning, and use of oral
   presentations to reduce lead time and contractors' proposal preparation
   costs. * MILLENNIA LITE encourages the use of page limitations on
   proposal size in those cases where written technical proposals are
   required. * MILLENNIA LITE provides for documents such as this to
   provide ongoing guidance in the use of the contracts. * MILLENNIA LITE
   provides for extended communication between the contracting office and
   program/technical offices via its Call Center. This is especially
   useful in addressing questions concerning determinations of fair
   opportunity for consideration. 1 The IT Solutions Shop is an e-commerce
   system for on-line interactive, web-based ordering. Users are able to
   submit, process, monitor and award orders in a secure real-time work
   environment. 7 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines *
   MILLENNIA LITE utilizes the services of the Information Technology
   Acquisition Center to ensure technical/program personnel involved in
   the fair opportunity process are well apprised of the appropriate use
   of multiple award task and delivery order contracting. * MILLENNIA LITE
   has established regular communication with awardees via the Information
   Technology Acquisition Center (ITAC). Additionally, quarterly meetings
   with awardees in each Functional Area take place to discuss
   administrative matters, future requirements, and needed improvements in
   the ordering process. The following chapters of this document list and
   describe the steps and procedures to be followed to award a task order
   to a MILLENNIA LITE contractor. (See Appendix K for Process Flow
   Charts.) Please note that the procedural guidance contained herein is
   not intended to supersede the terms and conditions of the MILLENNIA
   LITE contracts, Questions or comments concerning specifics of this
   document can be addressed by contacting the MILLENNIA LITE Call Center
   (shan.clark@gsa.gov or (817) 978-3506). 8 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines CHAPTER 2 Ordering Procedures Requirements
   Analysis The first step in ordering from MILLENNIA LITE is to determine
   the requirements. A requirements analysis establishes the agency's need
   for support services. It includes the early stages of determining
   information needs based on the agency's mission and activities,
   identifying support services to achieve long-term objectives and
   short-term needs, and considering budgeting needs for the support
   services. The requirements analysis will also identify the duration for
   which the services will be provided, the minimum qualifications for the
   service provider, whether the service providers will be on-site or
   off-site, etc. The agency should identify requirements in the following
   areas: A. Scope  The agency should identify the coverage of the support
   services in terms of the organizations, programs, and systems they will
   support. Occasionally the services will cover the entire agency and all
   its systems, but that is rare. It is more likely that they will support
   only part of it, and the agency should identify that part. The part
   could be an organization, geographic location, program, and/or system.
   B. Constraints  The agency should identify all constraints that would
   impact the services. For example, the agency might limit an analysis of
   alternative software architectures for a new system to those that run
   on the agency's existing mainframe computers. Acquisition support
   services might be constrained to a compatibility- limited requirement.
   C. Deliverable Items  The agency should specify what the contractor is
   to deliver. For most support services, this will generally be written
   deliverables. For these, the agency should describe: Purpose and
   objective; Topics to be covered; Target length, if appropriate; Format
   (e.g., written report, memorandum, briefing package); Number of copies;
   Media (e.g., paper copy, electronic copy, including electronic format
   standards (e.g., in word processing package XYZ, in ASCII)); and
   Delivery dates. Not all deliverables will be on paper. Clerical support
   services (e.g., source data entry) will generally yield data in
   electronic format. For these, the agency needs to specify format (e.g.,
   records readable by a particular database management system or for use
   on a particular brand of computer) and media (e.g., diskette, tape).
   Training may include both written deliverables (e.g., workbooks) and
   services delivered (e.g., classroom instruction). Technical support
   services will consist primarily of contractor staff delivering services
   in person (e.g., controlling a central processing unit (CPU)). For
   services delivered in person, the agency should describe in detail what
   activities the contractor staff must perform. However, as required by
   Office of Federal 9 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines
   Procurement Policy (OFPP) Policy Letter 91-2, focus the description on
   "what" the contractor must produce, not "how" to do it. In other words,
   describe the desired output, not step-by-step procedures for producing
   it. D. Applicable Standards  The agency should identify Government
   wide, agency, or industry standards the contractor should follow. The
   most extensive set of Government wide standards is the FIPS PUBS
   developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
   FIPS PUBS include both document standards (e.g., FIPS PUBS 38 and 64)
   and technical standards for hardware, software, and telecommunications
   (e.g., FIPS PUB 146 for the Government Open Systems Interconnection
   Pro-file (GOSIP)). Applicable FIPS PUBS for technical standards, such
   as 146, must be cited in the SOW. FIPS PUBS for other documentation
   standards are cited at the agency's discretion. The agency may also
   have its own standards for particular activities. For example, the
   agency's system development methodology may provide outlines for
   written deliverables such as analytical studies. It may also dictate
   procedures for custom system development. The agency may also have its
   own writing and document format standards. In addition, agencies
   typically have their own security standards for protecting classified,
   sensitive, or privacy information. Finally, the agency may require
   compliance with industry standards published by the American National
   Standards Institute (ANSI), Institute of Electrical and Electronics
   Engineering (IEEE), International Standards Organization (ISO), or
   other organizations. E. Performance-Based - As described in Chapter 3,
   OFPP Policy Letter 91-2 requires that agencies use performance-based
   contracting methods for services wherever possible. (See Appendix J)
   Therefore, identifying detailed requirements for support services
   focuses on developing performance measures for evaluating the
   contractor's work. The specific measures will vary according to the
   service, but might include: Compliance with standards; Consistency with
   the contract's statement of work; Consistency with deliverables already
   approved by the agency; Reliability of physical products (e.g.,
   benchmark software); Error rates (e.g., for source data entry
   services); Time-related factors, such as  delivery according to the
   schedule in the contract, System availability (e.g., for facilities
   management services), and Rate at which records are entered per day
   (e.g., for source data entry services); and Quality and value, as
   determined by the agency. If performance standards are not available,
   the agency is encouraged to include in the Statement of Work a
   requirement for the contractor to provide a Performance Matrix as a
   deliverable to assist in the development of performance standards for
   future task orders. 10 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines F. Government vs. Contractor Responsibilities  Because of
   cost, control, or security, the agency may not want the contractor to
   provide all aspects of the support services. As part of its
   requirements analysis for the services, the agency should identify what
   it will provide in the following areas: Facilities  Space for
   contractor staff to work. The staff might visit the agency's facility
   only infrequently and require only access to a telephone, or staff
   might be located on-site full-time for the duration of the contract.
   The Government may need to have the contractor staff on-site because of
   the nature of the work (e.g., a facilities management contract for
   computer center operation) or for reasons of security, control,
   convenience, or coordination with agency staff conducting similar
   activities. Contractors typically offer lower prices for on-site
   arrangements, although the Government must consider its cost for
   providing space and supplies when calculating the total cost over the
   life of the contract. Equipment  The agency may provide equipment for
   contractor use in performing the work. For on-site contractor staff,
   the agency might provide telephones, photocopying equipment, and/or
   office automation equipment and software. For source data entry
   contracts, the agency might provide terminals and telecommunications
   equipment. For a facilities management contract, the agency will
   typically provide all equipment in the computer center. For off-site
   work, many vendors already have standard office automation capabilities
   in place for conducting their day-to-day business. The Government,
   therefore, will not have to provide this type of equipment.
   Government-furnished equipment for off-site work would be limited to
   specialized or unique equipment. In deciding whether to supply
   equipment, the agency should weigh cost, resource, and schedule
   implications of acquiring the equipment itself vs. having the
   contractor acquire it and, typically, bill the Government. The agency
   should keep careful inventory records of equipment provided to a
   contractor and ensure its return at the close of the contract. Any
   equipment that the contractor acquires at the Government's direction
   and is paid for through the contract should be turned over to the
   agency at the end of the contract. G. Information  Agencies will almost
   always provide information to contractors to help them develop their
   proposals and to conduct the work after contract award. Information
   provided before award is typically either included as an attachment or
   in a library vendors may visit. As part of the requirements analysis,
   the agency should identify the information that contractors might need,
   assemble materials already written, and develop any 11 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines necessary new materials. Information
   provided will vary with the support services, but might include
   organization charts, mission statements, agency standards, descriptions
   of existing systems, recommended layouts for data entry screens and
   reports, manual and automated procedures, and relevant deliverables
   from past contractors. H. Staffing  Finally, the agency should decide
   whether it wants contractor staff to perform all activities for the
   support services or whether agency staff will perform some of them. For
   example, to run a large data center, the agency may decide to issue a
   facilities management contract for operating the tape and disk
   libraries, but retain such functions as job control, configuration
   management, and user assistance. Using both agency and contractor staff
   to support the same function makes it more difficult to hold the
   contractor accountable for quality and performance and provides
   opportunities for denial of responsibility (i.e., finger pointing).
   Facilities management support of a computer center is one example of
   this situation. Overlapping responsibilities could lead to claims from
   either the agency or contractor's employees that the other organization
   did not properly maintain the hardware. Also, configuration changes
   made by one group may not be communicated to the other, possibly
   leading or contributing to system failures. A clear line of
   responsibility (e.g., which entity is responsible for which activities)
   is essential to the proper functioning of the computer center.
   Functional Areas The Government, at its discretion, will determine
   under which functional area a task order request belongs. This
   determination will be based on the predominant work to be performed
   under the task order (e.g., 70% = Functional Area 1, and 30% =
   Functional Area 2 will be categorized as Functional Area 1). Millennia
   Lite offers five different functional areas of support and services as
   listed below: Functional Area 1  Information Technology Planning,
   Studies, and Assessment. Functional Area 1 encompasses Information
   Technology Planning, Studies, and Assessment to assist the Chief
   Information Officer and the IRM Official to implement the Clinger-Cohen
   Act. The scope of this functional area includes both information
   technology capital planning and assessment. IT assessment includes
   business case analysis (cost/benefit and risk), performance
   measurements, independent validation and verification of systems
   development projects as well as measuring IT progress, return on
   investment, earned value, and compliance with federal interoperability
   standards and enterprise architectures as intended by the Clinger-Cohen
   Act. This functional area includes studies and analyses designed to
   further enhance agency compliance with, but not limited to, OMB
   Circulars A-76 and A-130. 12 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines Functional Area 2  High-End Information Technology Services
   (HITS). HITS will provide client agencies a variety of systems support
   including embedded systems support for complex, high-end information
   technology engineering life cycle services. This includes, but is not
   limited to: Systems engineering and integration; scientific and
   engineering applications development; and database application
   development for embedded systems. HITS requirements are primarily
   associated with the following disciplines, government mission areas,
   and associated applications (including technology transfer): Acoustic
   Aerospace Aeronautical Astronautical Biological Biomedical Chemical
   Civil Electrical Environmental Geological Geotechnical Industrial
   Logistics Maintainability Maintenance Marine/Naval Materiel Mechanical
   Nuclear Optical Petroleum Reliability Quality Assurance Quality Control
   Safety Software Systems Systems Missions Analysis Water/Waste Health
   Care/Health Care Management HITS projects may encompass studies,
   analyses, design, development, configuration, integration,
   documentation, acquisition, modification, installation, testing,
   training, operation, and/or maintenance of stand alone and/or embedded
   hardware and software in a simulation, experimental, laboratory,
   military, and business/operational setting. The anticipated services
   require a diversity of knowledge, skills, and experience with a variety
   of IT engineering tools and environments, and a broad spectrum of
   scientific and engineering disciplines. Anticipated tasks include but
   are not limited to the following: Computer Aided Design (CAD) Computer
   Aided Engineering (CAE) Computer Aided Management (CAM) Independent
   Validation and Verification (IV&V) Design/Specifications Documentation
   and Information Dissemination Economic/Business case analysis Economic
   impact evaluations Education/training Environmental control
   Instrumentation Reliability and Maintainability Reverse engineering
   Simulation and modeling Source data development (forward engineering
   hardware and software systems) Source data validation (existing
   hardware and software systems) Statistical analysis 13 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines Excluded are engineering and
   technical services related to Architecture and Engineering governed by
   FAR Part 36, foundations and landscaping, heating, ventilation and air
   conditioning. Functional Area 3  Mission Support Services (MSS) . The
   services offered under this area include a broad range of IT related to
   Mission Support Services (MSS). The anticipated services require a
   diversity of skills suitable to a variety of information technology
   environments. The ability to respond and to perform assignments with
   high quality services within a stringent time frame is essential. All
   task orders will require that the Contractor provide an integral staff
   including supervision. Anticipated services include, but are not
   limited to, the following areas of support: System Development and
   Software Maintenance Facilities Planning, Management, and Operations
   Local Area Networks (LAN), Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN), and Wide
   Area Network (WAN) System Design, Management, and Support Computer
   Systems Administration, Management and Maintenance Data Entry, Data
   Storage, Data Retrieval, and Electronic Records Management Specialized
   Workstation (i. e. CAD, CAD/CV, GIS) Support Computer Equipment
   Maintenance (both on-going and on-call) Systems Installation and
   Integration Production Support Software and Application Development,
   Maintenance and Enhancement Support Data Base Generation and Data Base
   Management Data and/or Media Management Orientation and Training
   Information Center/Help Desk Computer Graphics Support Services
   Electronic Records Management Functional Area 4 - Legacy Systems
   Migration and New Enterprise Systems Development . The services offered
   under this area include project management of legacy systems migration
   and enterprise systems development that government CIOs/IRMs consider
   important. The services required are to support (but not limited to)
   the following enabling and critical technologies: Modernization of
   legacy systems to web enabled applications Software development,
   customization of COTS software packages, and migration to modular
   applications Internet/Intranet/Web Applications/Network Computing
   Information and System Security/Firewalls/Critical Infrastructures
   Knowledge Management Data Warehousing Electronic Commerce/Electronic
   Data Exchange 14 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines
   Year 2000 Remediation and Test Tools Groupware Next Generation Internet
   Client/Server Computing Workflow and Imaging Functional Area 5 - Future
   Technologies The services and solutions offered under this functional
   area represent a delayed requirement to meet out clients' needs for
   evolving technologies in support of the Federal Technology Service's
   future business lines. Contract Type Millennia Lite allows agencies to
   negotiate different types of contracts with vendors which differ in the
   degree of risk assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance
   and in the profit incentives offered. The contract types are grouped
   into two broad categories: fixed-price and cost-reimbursement.
   Generally, the contractor assumes the most risk (of losing money) in
   fixed-price contracts and the least risk in cost-reimbursement
   contracts. Conversely, the Government assumes more risk (of paying more
   than it expected) in cost-reimbursement contracts and less risk in
   fixed- price contracts. Depending on an agency's requirements, some
   services are more appropriate for fixed- price contracts and others for
   cost-reimbursement contracts. When requirements are well-defined,
   allowing contractors to estimate their costs with a reasonable degree
   of accuracy, fixed-price contracts are almost always in the
   Government's best interest. The following are the four contract types
   offer under Millennia Lite: A. Firm Fixed-Price Contracts (FFP)  The
   most common type of fixed-price contract is firm-fixed-price in which
   the contractor agrees to furnish specific quantities of specific
   services at a specific price. The FFP is not adjustable no matter what
   it costs the contractor to perform the work unless a bilateral
   agreement exists between contractor and CO. While this carries the
   greatest degree of financial risk for the contractor, it also offers
   the greatest potential for profit. Thus, the FFP contract encourages
   efficiency. Fixed-price contracts are most appropriate for services for
   which the requirements are unambiguous and known in detail, costs can
   be predicted with an acceptable degree of certainty, and adequate price
   competition exists in the marketplace (e.g., source data entry for a
   specified quantity of work, training for an off-the-shelf word
   processing package). B. Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) - is the most common
   type of cost-reimbursement contracts. For this, the offeror first
   estimates the total cost of performing the work. The dollar amount of
   the fixed fee is then calculated, usually by applying an assumed profit
   margin to the cost estimate. The fee is negotiated and the dollar 15
   August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines amount fixed at
   contract award. As the contractor performs the work, the Government
   reimburses it for allowable costs as provided in the contract. Some
   expenses (e.g., travel) are not reimbursable at all. Agency and outside
   auditors, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), can be used
   to monitor the contractor's costs. If, at the end of the work, the
   contractor's costs are below those estimated at contract award, the
   dollar amount of the fixed fee compared to the costs represents, in
   effect, a higher profit margin. On the other hand, if the actual costs
   exceed the original estimate, the dollar amount of the fixed fee
   represents a lower profit margin. Thus, fixing the dollar amount of the
   fee encourages the contractor to perform at or below the original cost
   estimate. CPFF contracts have two forms: completion and term. Under the
   completion form, the contractor is obligated to complete the work.
   Under the term form the contractor is obligated only to provide a
   specified level of effort during a specified time. The completion form
   is preferred over the term form because the contractor has a greater
   obligation to deliver a usable product. CPFF are most suited to
   situations in which the Government's requirements cannot be stated in
   detail or in which the agency wants flexibility to modify its
   requirements. For example, independent verification and validation
   (IV&V) services generally meet these criteria since the level of effort
   required of the IV&V contractor depends in part on the performance of
   the contractor developing the system to be verified. However, if an
   agency changes its requirements (though staying within the scope of the
   contract), the contractor's costs may increase. If a contract
   modification is required to accommodate the new requirements, the
   contractor may petition the CO for a corresponding increase in its fee.
   C. Time-and-Materials Contracts (T&M)  Provide for direct labor at
   fixed hourly rates (including contractor overhead, administrative
   loading and a profit margin) and materials (including both non-labor
   components and expenses) at cost. A T&M contract may be used when it is
   not possible to predict accurately the number of labor hours required.
   However, because a profit margin is built into every hour worked, the
   contractor has little incentive to perform efficiently under a T&M
   contract. Therefore, the contract should establish ceilings for the
   total dollar amount the contractor can bill the Government. Some T&M
   contracts also establish ceilings on the number of labor hours.
   Time-and-materials contracts provide little incentive for cost control
   or labor efficiency. FAR Part 16 states that this type of contract may
   only be used after the contracting officer executes a determination and
   findings stating that no other contract type is suitable and that the
   contract contains a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its
   own risk 16 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines D.
   Cost-Plus-Award-Fee (CPAF)  Except for T&M, each of the contract types
   discussed above can encourage the contractor to control costs (i.e., in
   firm-fixed- price contracts, the contractor will lose money if its
   costs exceed the price and in cost-reimbursement contracts, the
   contractor's profit margin will be reduced if costs exceed the original
   estimate). Agencies may also find it worthwhile to incorporate award
   fee provisions, which reward high quality and/or fast delivery, into
   the contract. Award fees are based on subjective factors, such as
   quality or technical ingenuity. Award fee contracts required full
   documentation in the contract of the factors considered in determining
   the fee. This protects the agency from contractor claim that the fee
   was too low and charges by Government oversight agencies that the fee
   was too high. Awards must be structured to encourage the behavior the
   agency intends. Also, to be motivated by an award fee, the contractor
   must understand the fee determination process and perceive it as fair.
   Award fee contract is more difficult to administer because they require
   the CO to maintain substantiating documentation. With CPAF, the
   Government pays allowable costs, based fee, and award fee. The
   contractor earns a base fee that does not vary with performance and, in
   addition, earns all or part of an award fee based on the Government's
   unilateral evaluation of the contractor's performance in terms of the
   criteria stated in the contract. The CO (with input from program and
   technical staff) determines the amount of the award fee. The
   contractor's performance is evaluated at stated intervals and
   corresponding partial payments of the fee are made. (Note: GSAM 516.406
   states that the Contracting Director (or equivalent) must approve all
   award fees prior to issuance.) Note: Both CPFF and CPAF above require
   that the fee shall not exceed the applicable, FAR-cited statutory
   percentage limitation of the estimated cost, excluding fee (see FAR
   15.903(d)(1)). Per FAR 15.903(d)(2), a deviation to this limitation may
   be authorized in the case of cost plus award fee contracts in
   accordance with FAR Subpart 1.4. 17 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines Statement of Work (SOW) (See Appendices E & J for
   Templates) For those orders issued by GSA, and for the GSA
   representative to effectively meet the needs of the customer, a mutual
   understanding with the client regarding a given requirement needs to be
   established as stated above. For this to occur, the GSA representative
   and the client will work together to develop the SOW. The SOW is a
   required document. See Appendices E & J for examples of content, and
   format. The SOW for task orders must clearly define the requirements to
   be procured so the offerors can develop meaningful proposals that meet
   the Government's requirements. COs should apprise customers and program
   officials that the intent of FASA is for awardees under multiple award
   contracts to compete for well-defined tasks, not for undefined tasks
   that are later defined by sole source work orders issued to the
   selected awardee. Agencies shall not award large, undefined task orders
   in an effort to expedite the award only to issue subsequent sole source
   work orders or broadly interpreted technical direction letters. The SOW
   should provide the offeror with answers to five basic questions: what,
   when, how many or how much, and how well. It is important for the SOW
   to accurately answer these questions in order to allow the offeror the
   opportunity to accurately assess resources required and risks involved.
   In addition to those areas you must consider above you also need to
   consider the following: A. - Oral Presentations You must decide and
   address in the SOW whether you want the offeror to provide oral or
   written proposals or a combination of both. In certain situations, oral
   presentations may be the preferred method of obtaining contractor
   proposals. Many agencies now use oral presentations as a substitute for
   a portion or all of the traditional written proposal in competitively
   negotiated procurements. The concept of oral presentations is being
   considered throughout the Government as a means of streamlining the
   proposal evaluation and source selection processes. Variations in
   approach include: Media used to record the presentation; restrictions
   on the extent and nature of material used in the presentation; the
   Government participants; the offeror's presentation team; and the
   amount of time permitted for the presentation. Since there is no single
   best approach for using oral presentations, procurement officials are
   afforded significant latitude relative to the construct and
   architecture of the oral presentation scenario. Based on an examination
   of procurement statutes and regulations, and General Accounting Office
   (GAO) and court cases, there are no legal impediments to the use of
   oral presentations. All of the safeguards and standards embodied in the
   Federal procurement process, e.g., fairness, impartiality, formality,
   etc., need to be observed. There is nothing that suggests that the use
   of oral presentations would impair the 18 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines selection decision, or that a binding contract
   would fail to come into existence, or that there would be a basis for
   successful protest based merely on the use of the oral presentation
   approach. FAR 15.102 discusses oral presentations. Further support can
   be found in the current literature, which endorses the concept of oral
   presentations. (See Appendix L). B. - Evaluation Criteria You must also
   decide and address in the SOW what evaluation criteria you plan on
   using to evaluate proposals. Several methods for the evaluation of
   proposals exist. However, each has its strengths and weaknesses.
   Agencies must choose the most suitable method according to each unique
   situation. (See Appendix F for sample evaluation criteria) Evaluation
   criteria are those factors deemed by the Government to be the most
   important factors in consideration of task award. Establishing sound
   evaluation criteria works to the advantage of all parties involved in
   the competitive process in as much as: The client is able to enunciate
   those elements that are most integral to the performance of the
   technical requirement; and the offeror is better able to make a sound
   business decision to bid or not bid on the technical requirement. The
   offeror is further afforded the advantage of knowing what to address in
   his proposal. Based on your analysis above, you would either use
   Technically Acceptable/Lowest Bid or Best Value approach. The
   technically acceptable/lowest price approach is appropriate when award
   is expected to result from the selection of the technically acceptable
   proposal with the lowest evaluated price. The SOW shall set forth the
   evaluation factors and significant subfactors that establish the
   requirements of acceptability. Further, the SOW shall specify that
   award will be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated price of
   proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for the
   non-price factors. Unlike this traditional method, best value considers
   cost as just one of several factors necessary to make a decision. COs
   select the most advantageous offer by evaluating and comparing factors
   in addition to cost or price. Best value is a more expensive and time
   consuming process and you have to lay that against your expected
   returns. The request for proposal process generates creative
   competition, requiring bidders to exercise their innovative genius.
   Instead of confining the selection process to the lowest bidder, best
   value opens the operation to inventive solutions and comprehensive
   evaluations. Below are examples of when the best value approach would
   be used: When the agency has defined a need and requests the offerors
   propose the best method for accomplishing it. When the agency will
   consider factors other than lowest price when determining whether or
   not to make an award. When the skills, expertise, or technical
   capability of the bidders will be evaluated. 19 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines When the problem or need is fairly
   detailed or complex. When the specifications of the project cannot be
   clearly defined. Here the focus shifts from price to goals and
   requirements. The agency must identify factors relevant to the
   selection of a contractor, then prioritize or weigh those factors
   according to their importance. After determining expectations, the
   agency must establish evaluation criteria. The CO will use these
   factors to decide which of the proposals submitted would best meet the
   agency's needs. The CO sets basic requirements, also known as mandatory
   criteria. Any bid unable to satisfy any of these requirements is deemed
   incapable of performing the contract and is rejected. You really have
   to be cautious because mandatory criteria need to be a make-it-or-
   break-it type of standard. The question you should ask yourself is
   "Should you reject an otherwise attractive proposal based on not
   meeting this one criterion?" Be prepared to set an entire proposal
   aside based on this one factor not being met. Weighted criteria consist
   of desired factors, but not "must have." Commonly used criteria include
   qualifications, relevant experience, quality of work, references,
   service, human resources, cost, facilities, technical capabilities, and
   proposed time lines. An agency assigns a priority or weight to each
   factor according to its importance. For the evaluation to be effective
   the criteria should have the following characteristics: Objective:
   criteria should not be subject to diverging interpretation.
   All-encompassing: criteria should address all key elements of the
   contract. Discriminatory: criteria should separate best, average, and
   weaker proposals. Non-Discriminatory: criteria should be fair and
   reasonable. Realistic: criteria should be within reason, given the
   contract nature and/or value. Measurable: criteria should have
   measurable standards. Economical: criteria should not consume an
   unreasonable amount of time or resources. 20 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines C. - Method of Award The SOW must inform
   offerors with information about the methodology the Government will use
   in evaluating proposals. (See Appendix O for Sample "Method of Award
   Language") Independent Government Estimate (IGE) All major elements of
   the MILLENNIA LITE contract were negotiated prior to award, with a
   contract level IGE serving as the negotiation objective for the rates
   associated with skill levels. Although the FAR does not require IGEs,
   there will be cases when the Government finds that development of an
   IGE for a task will enhance the Government's position during
   negotiation. In view of this, while the development of an IGE is
   optional, it is nonetheless, advisable. It is incumbent upon the
   Government, therefore, to make a determination whether or not an IGE is
   required for the development or modifications of a given task order.
   The ultimate determination will be based on the complexity of the task
   and other factors as delineated below. When the IGE may not be
   necessary . Examples of when an IGE may not be necessary include: a.
   When the task is a follow-on task with an historical basis for
   evaluating the contractor's proposal b. When the task is virtually
   identical to another currently operational task c. When the task is
   sufficiently simple and straight forward d. When the staffing
   guidelines are clearly applicable to the task requirements e. When task
   modifications reflect * contractor initiated change orders * extensions
   to the period of performance * changes to travel requirements * changes
   to training * changes to overtime * changes to equipment or other
   materials. When an IGE may be required. Examples of when an IGE is
   recommended include: a. When the task is Firm Fixed Price b. When a
   number of staffing methods apply and each deserves due consideration c.
   When there is no similar or predecessor task from which to draw
   information d. When the staffing guidelines of the contract contain a
   degree of ambiguity with respect to the specific set of task
   requirements. 21 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines
   When an IGE is deemed necessary, it will be prepared by the Government
   and will address the resources required to accomplish the requirements
   of the task and a narrative in support of the hours and skill levels
   estimated. Since the main purpose of the IGE is to provide a tool to
   evaluate the contractor's proposal to determine whether the price is
   fair and reasonable and the contents show a thorough understanding of
   the task to be accomplished, the IGE will be prepared prior to, and
   independent of, the contractor's proposal. In terms of analysis, the
   IGE will be based upon the skill levels and functional elements defined
   in Section C of the MILLENNIA LITE contract. The IGE will also address
   Other Direct Costs as applicable, which may include costs associated
   with travel, hardware in support of the task requirements, etc. Request
   for Proposal (RFP) Each awardee under MILLENNIA LITE will be given a
   fair opportunity for each order in excess of $2,500, unless an
   exception applies (See Appendix I). The FAR states that, in determining
   the procedures for providing awardees a fair opportunity to be
   considered, COs should use good business judgment to determine
   appropriate methods for considering factors such as past performance,
   quality of deliverables, cost control, price/cost, or other factors
   that are relevant to the placement of orders. Detailed descriptions of
   fair consideration alternatives are described in Appendix I to this
   document. Appendix H provides sample letters that can be used to assist
   contractors in making a strategic business decision of whether to bid
   on a requirement. There are two methodologies for Placement of task
   orders. Methodology I - Oral presentation of Technical Proposal and
   Methodology II - Written Technical Proposal. The two methodologies have
   several common steps. The steps for each methodology are indicated
   below: * Step 1 (Applies to both methodologies) - The Government will
   provide to each Contractor a task request via GSA's electronic system
   which will be used to specify the work to be accomplished by the
   Contractor to satisfy a particular task requirement. As a minimum, each
   task request will include: (1) A description of the work to be
   performed; (2) The desired delivery schedule and/or required completion
   date(s), as applicable; (3) Additional acceptance criteria, if any; (4)
   Reporting requirements and list of deliverables; (5) The date and time
   by which their response is due; (6) Travel and supply requirements, if
   any; (7) Desired type of pricing, i.e., FFP, CPFF, CPAF, T&M; (8)
   Instructions, conditions, and notices to offerors; and; (9) Evaluation
   factors (After initial orders are performed, past performance under
   this Contract will always be an evaluation factor) 22 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines * Step 2 (Applies to both
   methodologies) - The Contractor shall, within the time frame specified
   in each task request, provide the ACO with a statement indicating
   intent to propose or reasons for not proposing for the specific
   requirements. * Step 3 (Applies to both methodologies) - The Contractor
   shall, within the timeframe specified in each task request, provide the
   ACO with any questions regarding the requirement. * Step 4 (Applies to
   both methodologies) - The ACO shall, within the timeframe specified in
   each task request, provide all participating Contractors with questions
   asked and answered regarding the requirements. * Step 5 (Applies to
   Methodology I only) - In lieu of a written technical proposal, the
   Contractor shall demonstrate their technical proposal through an oral
   presentation. In the timeframe specified in each task request, each
   participating Contractor will be afforded the opportunity to make an
   oral presentation, not to exceed the time frame specified by the ACO,
   of capabilities to perform the requirement. To maintain fairness
   without an adverse impact on the award schedule, presentation times
   shall be randomly provided to the participating Contractors by the ACO
   at the same time previous step is completed. After the oral
   presentation, the Government will reserve a set amount of time to be
   determined by the ACO to address clarifications regarding the
   presentation. * Step 6 (Applies to Methodology II only) - The
   Contractor shall, within the timeframe specified in each task request,
   provide the ACO with a written proposal via GSA electronic system. Step
   7 (Applies to both methodologies) - The Government anticipates award
   based upon initial offers. Should all initial proposals contain
   deficiencies which would preclude award based upon initial offers, the
   ACO will enter into oral and/or written discussions to resolve
   deficiencies. In the event discussions are necessary, each Offeror will
   be notified and provided an opportunity to submit a Final Proposal
   Revision. Upon receipt of a Final Proposal Revision, the ACO will
   complete evaluation and award the task order through GSA's electronic
   system (if GSA) or other means (if outside GSA). Evaluation of
   Proposals The goal of the proposal evaluation is to ensure that each
   proposal addresses all of the required elements of the SOW and, that
   the source selection is impartial, equitable and comprehensive. The
   Government may evaluate the technical proposals using either one
   Government representative or a team of representatives. For example, a
   Project Manager or an Information Technology Manager for GSA may be the
   sole technical evaluator for the Government, or the client agency may
   offer a number of representatives to assist in the technical
   evaluation. There is considerable latitude given in constructing the
   approach to evaluation. Please note, however, the number of evaluators
   should be kept to the minimum number necessary to effectively perform
   the evaluation. When using the technically acceptable/lowest price
   approach, proposals are evaluated for acceptability but not ranked
   using the non-price factors. 23 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines When using the best value approach, the CO must create an
   evaluation plan with a detailed scoring scheme to give an agency as
   standard by which to judge competing proposals. The scoring system also
   provides offerors with a fair basis for comparison. In your weighted
   criteria, you may have a number of elements and sub-elements to which
   you attach weights. You also have to attach a scoring grid to determine
   from that weight how you score somebody high, score somebody in the
   medium range, and score somebody low. A scoring grid should detail the
   information expected of the bidders, the rating value allocated to each
   evaluation criteria and sub-criteria, and the scoring method that will
   be used to assess the evaluation criteria. (See Appendix N for "Sample
   Scoring Grid") Overall the evaluation seeks to select for award the
   offeror that best satisfies the Government's needs. In terms of
   procedure, the proposal is evaluated consistent with the evaluation
   factors identified in the SOW, and the standards, scoring and weighting
   elements which are the most essential part of the Government's
   evaluation and selection plan. Negotiation and Award It is a sound
   practice for the solicitation to call for initial proposals that
   represent the offerors' best approach and pricing. This statement
   should put the offeror on notice that the Government may simply award
   without negotiation. (Award without discussion is not recommended for
   Cost Reimbursement task orders.) If the Government determines that
   negotiations should take place, then all contractors submitting
   proposals must be notified of the place and time for negotiations.
   After negotiations, best and final offers (BAFOs) are requested and the
   final evaluation process takes place. Task orders will be awarded to
   the offeror whose proposal is determined to best meet the needs of the
   Government after consideration of all factors. The CO shall make award
   to the winning offeror1 using a GSA Form 300 (or other appropriate
   form) incorporating the SOW and the final proposal by reference. This
   task order authorizes the contractor to proceed based upon the agreed
   technical requirements, delivery schedule, and total price. Note that
   sufficient funds must be available before a task order is issued.
   Individual organizations will dictate the procedure for receipt,
   processing, and acceptance of funds. The CO's selection decision shall
   be final and shall not be subject to the protest or disputes provisions
   of the contract, except for a protest that the order increases the
   scope, period, or maximum value of the contract. The contractor may,
   however, appeal to the Agency Ombudsman for an independent review of
   the task order evaluation process and selection decision. 1
   Unsuccessful offerors shall be notified and a debriefing provided upon
   request. 24 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines It is
   very important to remember that if you say you're going to select on a
   best value approach and you lay out criteria, you must follow those
   criteria. If the rules are changed, averted, or ignored, disorder will
   ensure, exposing the key players to risks and losses. Once the rules
   are laid down, everybody has to play by them. A. Awarding Options
   Options may be included in task orders in accordance with FAR Part
   17.2. Funding for an individual option must be available prior to
   exercising the option, and no continuation of service shall be
   permitted until the option has been exercised by executing the
   necessary task order modification. B. Federal Procurement Data System
   (FPDS) Accurate reporting to Congress of the dollar amount of task
   orders will be input to the FPDS. When GSA is placing an order for
   itself or on behalf of a client, the CO will ensure entry is made to
   the GPDS. In a direct-order/direct-bill situation, the CO with
   appropriate delegation of authority will ensure the appropriate entry
   is made to the FPDS. Debriefs FAR 16.505, Ordering under Multiple Award
   Contracts, does not require a formal debrief. However, it is advisable
   and in the best interest of the Government to provide a contractor with
   as much information as prescribed under FAR 15.506, Post-Award
   Debriefing of Offerors. Information pertaining to a contractor's
   strengths and weaknesses provides insight and will assist the
   contractor in becoming more competitive while also benefiting the
   Government over the life of the contract. (See Appendix M for sample
   Debrief.) A debrief provides open and honest communication between the
   Government and the contractor regarding the strengths and weaknesses of
   the proposal. By providing information that allows the contractor to
   improve on their weaknesses and capitalize on their strengths, a
   stronger proposal can be achieved when the contractor competes for a
   similar task order. The debrief can also reassure the contractor that
   their evaluation was achieved objectively and in accordance with the
   prescribed award methodology. At task award the CO notifies all
   non-awardees which vendor is being awarded the task order. The
   notification shall include a brief, supporting evaluation rationale
   explaining the basis for ranking each evaluation criteria. Provision of
   this information shall serve as input to the contractor debriefs,
   although it may be supplemented by a more formalized debriefing upon
   specific written or electronic request of the contractor. If a
   non-awardee has questions as to why their company was not selected, the
   contractor may direct written or verbal questions to the CO. The CO may
   discuss with the contractor why that contractor was not selected.
   However, the CO may not: 25 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines * Identify or discuss the specifics of other contractors'
   results, * Identify and compare contractors' proposals, * Allow the
   contractor access to the award documentation and recommendation, or *
   Reveal any information prohibited from disclosure by FAR 24.202 or
   exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act such as trade
   secrets, privileged manufacturing processes or techniques, commercial
   and financial information, and the names of individuals providing past
   performance information. The debriefing should be provided within a
   reasonable period of time after award. Task Order Modifications Task
   orders may be changed either at the Government's initiative, or in
   response to a contractor's proposal. No direction changing the
   requirements of a task order will be binding upon the contractor unless
   issued by the CO. Likewise; the Government shall not be liable for an
   equitable adjustment to the price of a task order for a change unless
   the CO authorizes the change. Task order modifications are issued by
   means of a Standard Form 30 (or other appropriate form). (Check
   regulations on cost reimbursement contracts to be sure this paragraph
   is accurate for cost reimbursement tasks.) Modifications are generally
   made to correct oversights or changes in conditions from the original
   task order. Modifications are appropriate to change administrative
   information (names, phone numbers, period of performance dates, etc.)
   and to alter the scope of a task to a limited extent. However, if the
   proposed modification alters the scope of the order for significant
   additional work, or incorporates other major changes, the CO will
   require a new requirements package for the award of a new task order.
   The CO makes the determination of whether a change can be incorporated
   as a modification or requires a new task order be processed. If the CO
   is in doubt, the issue should be addressed to the MILLENNIA LITE PCO
   for the appropriate functional area. Modifications do not require
   opportunity for consideration to all MILLENNIA LITE awardees if the
   modification is within scope of the competition that took place at
   initial task award, and does not incorporate major changes. The
   modification process only requires that the task changes be
   incorporated (possibly via negotiation) in a modified task order. The
   modification will include all of the steps in the original task
   issuance process that are relevant to the modification being made. 26
   August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines APPENDIX A Contract
   Administration Roles The roles of the following individuals are
   integral to the successful initiation, placement and support of
   MILLENNIA LITE orders. Through their efforts the Government realizes
   efficient and effective results on both a price and technical level. It
   is only through close coordination and communication among these
   individuals that technical requirements are adequately identified and
   summarily shared with contractor employees who are to perform the work
   effort. (See Appendix C for Contractor Points of Contact and Appendix B
   for GSA Points of Contact). A. MILLENNIA LITE Procuring Contracting
   Officer (PCO) The MILLENNIA LITE PCO shall have overall contractual
   responsibility for the MILLENNIA LITE contracts. The PCO or his
   designee is authorized to take actions on behalf of the Government to
   amend, modify or deviate from the contract terms, conditions, and
   requirements, to exercise option renewals, to terminate the contract
   and approve subcontracts at the Master Contract level. Approval of
   subcontracts at the task order level may be delegated in writing to
   other COs. The PCO may delegate authority to award tasks to Warranted
   Contracting Officers. The PCO may also delegate certain other
   authorities and responsibilities to Contracting Officer's Technical
   Representatives (COTRs). The PCO may delegate authority on an
   individual or class basis to issue task orders under the MILLENNIA LITE
   contracts to GSA COs or other Government agency COs. B. Contracting
   Officer (CO) COs are delegated responsibility for the administration of
   task orders issued under the MILLENNIA LITE contracts. The CO is
   authorized to negotiate, amend, issue or modify task orders, accept or
   reject deliverables, delegate Contracting Officer's Technical
   Representative (COTR) authority, as well as other contract
   administration issues such as resolving payment and performance
   problems, etc. C. Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR)
   The COTR serves as the focal point for all task activities. The COTR
   coordinates the activities of customers, performs liaison activities,
   and serves as the primary point of contact with the contractors. The
   GSA COTR provides technical advice and assistance to clients in
   identifying and defining requirements. The COTR is responsible for
   tracking contractor performance, timeliness and quality of
   deliverables, etc. The COTR is responsible for performing acceptance of
   all supplies and services. The COTR may not make commitments/changes to
   the price, terms, or delivery provisions nor provides supervisory or
   instructional assistance to the contractor personnel. 27 August 15,
   2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines Titles for this role include
   Customer Service Representative (CSR), Information Technology Manager
   (ITM) and Government Project Manager (PM). D. Client Representative
   (CR) The CR is responsible for monitoring technical performance under
   the task order for the client agency. The CR has no express or apparent
   authority under the contracts to make commitments for the Government
   nor authorize changes to the contract or task order terms and
   conditions. 28 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines
   APPENDIX B GSA Millennia Lite Points of Contact New England Region -
   Anna Mitchell (617) 565-5769 Northeast & Caribbean Region - George Holt
   (212) 264-8249 Mid-Atlantic Region - Elizabeth Robertson (610) 455-1475
   Bob Vitelli (215) 656-6326 Southeast Sunbelt Region - Dan Blackburn
   (850) 435-8494 Great Lakes Region - George G. Miller (312) 886-3831
   Heartland Region - Stephen Soffer (816) 926-1600 Greater Southwest
   Region - Frances Waters (817) 978-3689 Rocky Mountain Region - Carolyn
   Helstrom (303) 236-7311 Pacific Rim Region - Clarice Flippin (510)
   637-3882 Northwest/Arctic Region - Ron Heald (360) 475-6813 National
   Capital Region  Paulette Ward (202) 708-5419 FEDSIM  (703) 605-9900
   Dept. of the Air Force Bobby McKenzie - (703) 605-9850 Dept. of the
   Army Tom Brady - (703) 605-9915 Dept. of Defense Jackie Lewis - (703)
   605-9820 Dept. of the Navy (incl. Marine Corps) Vicki Lillicrapp -
   (703) 605-9860 Civilian  Domestic Rick Dillon - (703) 605-9830 Civilian
    Environment Dave Yeager * - (703) 605-9856 Civilian  Financial Bill
   Kreykenbohm - (703) 605-9853 Civilian  Global Vicki Lillicrapp * (703)
   605-9860 Civilian  Judicial Dave Yeager - (703) 605-9856 Civilian
   Social Barnie Brown - (703) 605-9931 * Acting 29 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines APPENDIX C Contractor Information S
   = Small business SDB = Small, disadvantaged business SWO = Small,
   woman-owned business SDWO = Small, disadvantaged, woman-owned business
   Functional Area 1 Abacus Technology Corporation GS07T00BGD0045 5454
   Wisconsin Ave., Suite 1100 Chevy Chase, MD 20815 Anteon Corporation
   GS07T00BGD0046 3211 Jermantown Rd., Suite 700 Fairfax, VA 22030 CALIBRE
   Systems, Inc. GS07T00BGD0047 5111 Leesburg Pike, Suite 514 Falls
   Church, VA 22041-3206 CEXEC, Inc. GS07T00BGD0048 13921 Park Center Rd.,
   Suite 400 Herndon, VA 20171 Data Networks Corp. (SDWO) GS07T00BGD0049
   1840 Michael Faraday Dr., Suite 220 Reston, VA 20190 EDSI (SWO)
   GS07T00BGD0050 22800 Savi Ranch Parkway, Suite 220 Yorba Linda, CA
   92887 SI International, Inc. GS07T00BGD0051 800 S. Frederick Ave., Ste.
   204 Gaithersburg, MD 20877 Soza and Co., Ltd. GS07T00BGD0052 8550
   Arlington Blvd. Fairfax, VA 22031 30 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines Sytex, Inc. GS07T00BGD0053 766 Shrewsbury Ave.
   Tinton Falls, NJ 07724 User Technology Associates, Inc. GS07T00BGD0053
   950 N. Glebe Rd., Suite 100 Arlington, VA 22203 Functional Area 2 :
   Anteon Corporation GS07T00BGD0029 3211 Jermantown Rd., Suite 700
   Fairfax, VA 22030 American Systems Corporation GS07T00BGD0030 13990
   Park East Circle Chantilly, VA 20151 AverStar GS07T00BGD0031 1595
   Spring Hill Road Vienna, VA 22182 Computer Technology Associates, Inc.
   GS07T00BGD0032 6903 Rockledge Road Bethesda, MD 20817 GRC
   International, Inc. GS07T00BGD0033 1900 Gallows Rd. Vienna, VA 22182
   Nichols Research GS07T00BGD0034 4090 S. Memorial Parkway Huntsville, AL
   35802 New Technology Management, Inc. (SDWO) GS07T00BGD0045 10461 White
   Granite Dr., Suite 104 Oakton, VA 22124 QSS Group, Inc. (S)
   GS07T00BGD0036 4500 Forbes Blvd., Suite 200 Lanham, MD 20706 Sentel
   Corporation GS07T00BGD0037 225 Reinekers Lane, Suite 500 Alexandria, VA
   22314 31 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines Sherikon,
   Inc. GS07T00BGD0038 14500 Avion Parkway, Suite 200 Chantilly, VA 20151
   Systems Technology Associates, Inc. GS07T00BGD0039 4040 East Bijou St.
   Colorado Springs, CO 80909 Functional Area 3: ACS Government Solutions
   Group GS07T00BGD0019 One Curie Court Rockville, MD 20850 Advanced
   Technology Systems, Inc. GS07T00BGD0020 7915 Jones Branch Drive McLean,
   VA 22102 Century Technologies GS07T00BGD0021 962 Wayne Ave., Suite 500
   Silver Spring, MD 20910 Computer Systems Technology GS07T00BGD0022 1525
   Perimeter Parkway, Suite 325 Huntsville, AL 35806 EER Systems
   GS07T00BGD0023 3750 Centerview Drive Chantilly, VA 20151 FC Business
   Systems GS07T00BGD0024 8001 Braddock Rd., Suite 300 Springfield, VA
   22151 ITS Federal (S) GS07T00BGD0025 2300 Alessandro Dr., Suite 215
   Ventura, CA 93002 Rose International, Inc. (SDWO) GS07T00BGD0026 16401
   Swingley Ridge Rd., Suite 300 Chesterfield, MO 63017 32 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines Sherikon, Inc. GS07T00BGD0027 14500
   Avion Parkway, Suite 200 Chantilly, VA 20151 VGS (S) GS07T00BGD0028
   10302 Eaton Place, Suite 150 Fairfax, VA 22030 Functional Area 4:
   Allied Technology Group GS07T00BGD0055 1803 Research Blvd., Suite 601
   Rockville, MD 20850 Anteon Corporation GS07T00BGD0056 3211 Jermantown
   Road, Suite 700 Fairfax, VA 22030 BTG, Inc. GS07T00BGD0057 3877 Fairfax
   Ridge Road Fairfax, VA 22030 CACI GS07T00BGD0058 1100 N. Glebe Road
   Arlington, VA 22201 Computer and Hi-Tech Management, Inc. (SDB)
   GS07T00BGD0059 7926 Jones Branch Drive, Suite 600 McLean, VA 22102
   Federal Data Corp. GS07T00BGD0060 1700 Research Blvd. Rockville, MD
   20850 Keane Federal Systems, Inc. GS07T00BGD0061 2525 Meridian Parkway,
   Suite 400 Durham, NC 27713 Madison Research Corp. (SDB) GS07T00BGD0062
   401 Wynn Dr. Huntsville, AL 35805 33 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines Signal Corp. GS07T00BGD0063 3040 Williams Drive,
   Suite 200 Fairfax, VA 22031 Systems Research and Applications
   Corporation GS07T00BGD0064 4350 Fair Lakes Ct. Fairfax, VA 22030
   Sterling Software (U.S.), Inc. GS07T00BGD0065 1650 Tyson Blvd., Suite
   800 McLean, VA 22102-3915 TRW, Inc. Systems and Information Technology
   Group GS07T00BGD0066 One Federal Systems Park Drive Fairfax, VA 22033
   34 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines APPENDIX D
   Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) and Delegation of Authority MOU
   between IT Solutions and Client Agency Control Number:
   ______________________________ 1. Purpose. This MOU establishes an
   interagency agreement between GSA IT Solutions and the Client1. This
   agreement is effective when signed by GSA and the Client. 2. Scope.
   Under this MOU, GSA IT Solutions will provide support services to the
   client through delivery/purchase orders issued on behalf of the client.
   3. GSA Responsibilities. GSA will assign the necessary personnel
   determined by the contract used and the level of service ordered by the
   client. GSA assigned personnel includes COs, technical representatives,
   and financial managers. Depending on the level of service ordered by
   the client, GSA will: a) provide access to various GSA requirements and
   multiple award contracts; b) provide assistance to client officials
   seeking and receiving services; c) review and evaluate requests for
   service to determine if the requests are within the scope of available
   contract vehicles; d) review and evaluate offerings under one or more
   contracts in order to satisfy the client's requirements; e) issue
   delivery or purchase orders, as well as any necessary change orders; f)
   resolve contractual problems or issues, and adjudicate disputes with
   the contractor; g) ensure the contractor complies with the terms and
   conditions of the contract; and h) pay invoices for services that flow
   through the IT fund and bill the client agency for reimbursable
   services. 4. Client Responsibilities. The client shall: a) ensure that
   this MOU is signed by an official who is authorized to commit client
   funds and sign interagency agreements; b) comply fully with client
   agency's procurement regulations and policies; ensure the agency's
   compliance with Circular A-76 in matters related to this interservice
   support agreement; c) determine and communicate its requirements to
   GSA; 1 This MOU is used when GSA IT Solutions is acting as an agent in
   placing MILLENNIA LITE orders for the client agency. 35 August 15, 2000
   Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines d) provide full funding for costs
   described in paragraph 6 (Costs) for all products and services ordered,
   ensuring that an official who is authorized to obligate funds signs the
   funding document; e) advise the GSA immediately of any problems with
   the vendor that may affect delivery or cost of completed orders; f)
   receive and accept services in a timely manner; g) provide timely
   information so that GSA and the client's paying office may comply with
   all provisions of the Prompt Payment Act; and h) pay invoices for
   services for which the client provided a direct fund citation,
   including any associated interest penalties because of its late
   payments. 5. Funding: a) Reimbursable funds are obligated to the
   Information Technology (IT) Fund pursuant to this agreement upon the
   issuance of a funding document by the client. GSA will not issue any
   delivery/purchase orders prior to its receipt of a funding document.
   The funding document will cite the amount being obligated by the client
   and will describe the agency requirement that will be met by the order.
   The amount being obligated by the client includes the anticipated value
   of the order(s) to be issued to the contractor plus any applicable GSA
   surcharges for recovery of GSA's costs of doing business. GSA will not
   issue a delivery/purchase order in excess of the funds obligated by the
   client. The funding document will contain a certification signed by an
   agency official having authority to obligate the funds, and cite the
   office to contact if there is a need to discuss payment problems. a)
   Direct funds cite funding documents are signed and accepted by GSA.
   This document is obligated by the client's accounting and disbursement
   office for payment of the vendor's invoice by the indicated office. The
   original signed copy and copies of the GSA Form 300, or other
   appropriate form will be sent to the client with a copy attached to the
   contractor's copy of the 300. All delivery/purchase orders issued by
   GSA will cite the client's order number and line of accounting. b)
   Credit cards are recommended for delivery/purchase orders under one
   hundred thousand dollars per order. GSA will charge the amount of the
   vendor's invoice plus any applicable GSA surcharge to the client's
   credit card. 6. Costs. The client will reimburse GSA for costs of
   services provided by each delivery/purchase order (reimbursable funds)
   or pay the contractor directly upon rendering of a proper invoice
   (direct fund cite). Costs of services include the amounts due the
   contractor plus any applicable surcharges for recovery of GSA's costs
   of doing business. The client will help GSA avoid interest penalties by
   providing GSA with any necessary information within 10 days of receipt
   of the goods or services. If interest penalties are incurred, because
   the client has not provided timely receiving information, the client
   agrees to compensate GSA for the resultant interest penalties. 7. GSA
   Billing and Payment. 36 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines a) GSA will pay all charges for delivery/purchase orders
   from the Information Technology fund on a reimbursable basis, unless
   other agreements have been made (described in paragraph 5). Report of
   ITF Services Performed, GSA 789 voucher or TFS Form 7306, On Line
   Payment and Collection (OPAC), as applicable, will be used and shall be
   paid as rendered within 15 days. b) The client is responsible for
   prompt payment of all billings. All reimbursable billings are
   delinquent when they are 45 days or more overdue. c) When billings
   remain delinquent over 90 days and the client has not indicated a
   problem regarding services, GSA will not issue any new orders or
   modifications to existing orders for that client, and termination of
   existing services will be considered by GSA and negotiated with the
   client. 8. Cancellation. This agreement or any delivery order/purchase
   order issued under this agreement may be canceled in 30 calendar days
   by written notice by either party. If this agreement, or any order
   under this agreement is canceled, the client assumes responsibility for
   all costs resulting from the cancellation. 9. Disputes and Protests. If
   a dispute or protest arises from the specifications, solicitation,
   award, performance or termination of a delivery/purchase order and the
   contractor appeals or protests to a forum such as the GSA Board of
   Contract Appeals, the General Accounting Office, or a Federal court,
   and the forum makes an award in favor of the offeror or contractor,
   additional funding may be required. 37 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines MOU between GSA FTS Information Technology
   Acquisition Center And Client Agency Control Number:
   ______________________________ 1. Purpose. This MOU establishes an
   interagency agreement between the GSA Federal Technology Service (FTS)
   Information Technology Acquisition Center (ITAC) and the client agency
   for direct order/direct bill tasks. This agreement is effective when
   signed by GSA and the client. 2. Scope. Under this MOU, GSA will
   provide support services to the client through delivery orders issued
   to Millennia Lite contractors. 3. GSA Responsibilities: a) GSA will
   issue Delegations of Authority to client CO(s); b) GSA will inform
   clients of all modifications to Millennia Lite contracts; and c) GSA
   will review task order files on a sampling basis once a year. 4. Client
   Responsibilities: a. Client will ensure that this agreement is signed
   by an official who is authorized to sign interagency agreements; b.
   Client will comply fully with their agency's procurement regulations
   and policies; c. Client will provide a copy of any delivery orders
   placed by the client agency to the Millennia Lite PCO within seven
   calendar days of award; d. Client will administer Millennia Lite
   contracts in accordance with Millennia Lite contract terms and
   conditions and mandates of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and e.
   Upon request, the client will provide the Millennia Lite PCO access to
   task order files for review. f. Client GSA will review task order files
   on a sampling basis once a year. 38 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite
   Ordering Guidelines Delegation of Authority SAMPLE U. S. General
   Services Administration Delegation of Administrative Contracting
   Officer Authority (ACO) - Assignment Contract Administration  MILLENNIA
   LITE Contracts February 4, 1999 MEMORANDUM FOR ADDRESSEES LISTED BELOW
   FEDSIM CONTRACTING CENTER (TFG) FROM: KATHY GARRETT PROCURING
   CONTRACTING OFFICER FTS, Information Technology Acquisition Center
   SUBJECT: Delegation of Administrative Contracting Officer Authority
   (ACO) - Assignment of Contract Administration - MILLENNIA LITE
   Contracts This memorandum delegates Administrative Contracting Officer
   (ACO) responsibilities to
   _______________________________________________, effective
   _____________, 2000, as described below and pursuant to FAR 42.302 and
   GSAM 542.302, (need to verify FAR and GSAR references in this memo) for
   the following MILLENNIA LITE contracts: 1. 2. 3. 4. etc. Along with the
   contract administration functions listed at FAR 42.302(a), the ACO
   authority to perform the following specific functions pursuant to FAR
   42.302(b) and GSAM 542.302(b) is also delegated. Additionally, as
   Administrative Contracting Officer you are authorized to: 39 August 15,
   2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines 1. Assign contracting Officer's
   Technical Representative (COTR) responsibilities and work closely with
   the COTR in technical contract administration. Assure that the COTR is
   apprised of his/her specific responsibilities and authority, as well as
   limitations thereof. Copies of the assignment letter must be provided
   to the PCO so that the PCO may advise the Contractor. 2. Place all
   orders under the contract that are determined to be within the scope of
   the contract and your delegation. All orders shall be administered by
   the ACO. 3. Terminate individual orders for convenience or default in
   accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. 4. Respond to
   any Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests in relation to delivery
   orders and applicable post-award contract actions. 5. Serve as the
   central point for coordinating liaison with the contractor and with
   ordering agencies; assist by clarifying contract terms and contractor
   responsibilities or successful contract performance. Provide the
   Contractor and agencies with final written interpretations of contract
   terms and conditions. 6. Assure timely performance of delivery orders
   and monitor compliance with the terms and conditions of the Delivery
   Orders under the terms of the contract. Take appropriate action to
   protect the Government's interests under the terms of the contract. 7.
   Report to the PCO any inadequacies in contract specifications and
   recommend corrective action thereof. 8. Monitor contractor compliance
   with EEO provisions of the contract and resolve problems of
   non-compliance. 9. Monitor contractor compliance with safety
   requirements, including handling of hazardous materials. Identify any
   instances on non-compliance and take appropriate action. Conduct
   follow-up activities to ensure that corrective measures are employed.
   10. Monitor contract expenditures of all delivery orders within your
   authority, and provide the information as required to the Project
   Manager. 11. Prepare findings and fact and furnish to the PCO
   recommendations thereof relative to (a) institution of termination
   procedures; and (b) any disputes arising under the contract. Recommend
   the issuance of show-cause, cure, and stop-work order notices as
   appropriate. Additionally, issue these instruments when requested by
   the PCO. 12. Approve or disapprove subcontract requests, up to the
   limitation of your warrant. 40 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering
   Guidelines Any additional contract administration functions not listed
   in 42.302(a), and specifically delegated above pursuant to 42.302(b),
   remain the responsibility of the PCO. Please acknowledge your
   assumption of the ACO responsibilities as set forth in this memorandum
   by signing the acknowledgment line on the enclosed copy of this
   memorandum and returning the signed copy to me. If there are any
   questions about this delegation, I can be reached at 817/978-3434.
   _____________________________ _________________ ACO SIGNATURE DATE
   ADDRESSEES: 41 August 15, 2000 Millennia Lite Ordering Guidelines
   APPENDIX E Statement of Work Templates SAMPLE 1 Firm Fixed Price 1.0
   Introduction 1.1 Organization 1.1.1 Identification and Address 1.1.2
   Agency Mission 1.2 Project Background and Objectives 1.3 IT/Networking
   Environment 1.3.1 Services 1.3.2 Hardware 1.3.3 Software 1.3.4
   Networking 2.0 Technical Services Required 2.1 Task Description 2.1.1
   Scope of Work 2.1.2 Statement of Work 2.1.2.1 Milestone I 2.1.2.1(a)
   Deliverable #1 2.1.2.2 Milestone II 2.1.2.1(a) Deliverable #2 2.1.2.2
   Milestone III 2.1.2.3(a) Deliverable #3 42 August 15, 2000 Millennia
   Lite Ordering Guidelines 2.2 Acceptance Criteria 2.3 Expertise 2.4
   Deliv
