http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/lsneigh_PubNotic_2ndrqst.html

   Privacy & Legal Notice

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

   January 2, 2002

   Dear Neighbor:

   You were sent a letter about a month ago on proposed modifications to
   the permit issued by the State of California for LLNL hazardous waste
   management operations. The State has recently decided that another
   proposed modification requires public comment. The proposed
   modification was in the original letter and the public notice and at
   the time did not require public comment.

   In response, the Laboratory has extended the public comment period from
   January 31, 2002 to March 5, 2002 and issued a new public notice.

   Another public meeting to discuss all the proposed modifications has
   also been added to the schedule. The meeting will be held January 31,
   2002 at 6:30 p.m. in the LLNL Visitors Center.

   The proposed modification added to the public comment period asks that
   the Laboratory be allowed to update our training methods to include
   web- and computer-based courses. Currently much of the training takes
   place in a classroom using traditional teaching techniques. We want to
   be able to use the best available technology for our training in
   hazardous waste management.

   The other agenda items for the new public meeting remain the same.

   One request is to store solid wastes closer together using appropriate
   containers. The other is to store certain types of waste for up to a
   year before shipping them offsite for appropriate disposal. These
   wastes are now kept for up to 90 days before being shipped. Keeping
   these wastes longer means more efficient and economic handling. Given
   the small quantities of these wastes there is no additional risk to the
   public.

   As usual, the complete request for permit modifications is available at
   the Livermore Public Library and at the LLNL Visitors Center
   environmental repository. You should also find it available at
   http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/ under Permits.

   Please let me know if you have any questions. You may call me at
   (925)424-4026 or e-mail me at heffner1@llnl.gov

   Sincerely yours,

   H.F. Heffner

   Manager, Environmental Community Relations

   Environmental Protection Department

   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

   [go_up_btn.gif]
   Previous Page
   Modified: 10-Jan-02 02:54
   Disclaimer
