http://fire.pppl.gov/P2E.pdf

   POWERFUL PARTNERSHIPS: THE FEDERAL ROLE IN INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ON
   ENERGY INNOVATION A REPORT FROM THE PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE OF ADVISORS
   ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PANEL ON INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION IN ENERGY
   RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, DEMONSTRATION, AND DEPLOYMENT JUNE 1999 About
   the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology
   President Clinton established the President's Committee of Advisors on
   Science and Technology (PCAST) by Executive Order 12882 at the same
   time that he established the National Science and Technology Council
   (NSTC). The PCAST serves as the highest level private sector science
   and technology advisory group for the President and the NSTC. The
   Committee members are distinguished individuals appointed by the
   President, and are drawn from industry, education and research
   institutions, and other non-governmental organizations. The Assistant
   to the President for Science and Technology co-chairs the Committee
   with a private sector member selected by the President. The formal link
   between the PCAST and the NSTC ensures that national needs remain an
   overarching guide for the NSTC. The PCAST provides feedback about
   Federal programs and actively advises the NSTC about science and
   technology issues of national importance. The cover shows a nighttime
   view of the Earth from space. The Visualization Analysis Lab at the
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center combined six months of data to create
   this global image of electric lights. The data are from the Defense
   Meteorological Satellite Program Operational Linescan System, processed
   using algorithms developed by NOAA's National Geophysical Data Center.
   THE PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE OF ADVISORS ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CHAIRS
   Neal F. Lane John A. Young Assistant to the President for Science and
   Former President and CEO Technology Hewlett-Packard Co. Office of
   Science and Technology Policy MEMBERS Mario J. Molina Norman R.
   Augustine Institute Professor Former Chairman and CEO Lee and Geraldine
   Martin Lockheed Martin Corporation Professor of Environmental Science
   Massachusetts Institute of Technology Francisco J. Ayala Donald Bren
   Professor of Biological Sciences Peter H. Raven Professor of Philosophy
   Director, Missouri Botanical Garden University of California, Irvine
   Engelmann Professor of Botany, Washington University in Saint Louis
   John Deutch Institute Professor Sally K. Ride Department of Chemistry
   Professor of Physics Massachusetts Institute of Technology University
   of California, San Diego Murray Gell-Mann Judith Rodin Professor, Santa
   Fe Institute, Co-Chair President Science Board; R.A. Millikan Professor
   University of Pennsylvania Emeritus of Theoretical Physics California
   Institute of Technology Charles A. Sanders Former Chairman David A.
   Hamburg Glaxo-Wellcome, Inc. President Emeritus Carnegie Corporation of
   New York David E. Shaw CEO John P. Holdren D.E. Shaw & Co. and Juno
   Online Services Teresa and John Heinz Professor of Environmental Policy
   Charles M. Vest John F. Kennedy School of Government President Harvard
   University Massachusetts Institute of Technology Diana MacArthur
   Virginia V. Weldon Chair and CEO, Co-Founder Director, Center for the
   Study of Dynamac Corporation American Business Washington University in
   St. Louis Shirley M. Malcom Head, Directorate for Education and Lilian
   Shiao-Yen Wu Human Resources Programs Consultant, Corporate Technical
   American Association for the Advancement Strategy Development of
   Science IBM Executive Secretary Joan P. Porter The President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Panel on International
   Cooperation in Energy Research, Development, and Deployment John P.
   Holdren (Chair) Teresa and John Heinz Professor of Environmental Policy
   Harvard University PCAST Member Richard Balzhiser Maxine Savitz
   President Emeritus General Manager Electric Power Research Institute
   Allied Signal Ceramic Components John P. Boright Bruce N. Stram
   Executive Director Vice President, Business Development Office of
   International Affairs Enron Energy Services National Research Council
   Robert Williams William Chandler Senior Research Scientist Director,
   Advanced International Studies Princeton University Battelle Pacific
   Northwest National Laboratory Lilian Shiao-yen Wu John M. Deutch
   Consultant, Corporate Technical Institute Professor Strategy
   Development Massachusetts Institute of Technology IBM PCAST Member
   PCAST Member Howard Geller John Young Executive Director, American
   Council for an PCAST Co-Chair Energy Efficient Economy President and
   CEO, Retired Hewlett-Packard Co. John H. Gibbons Asst. to the President
   for Science and Technology, ret. Larry T. Papay Study Executive
   Director Senior Vice President and General Manager Bechtel Technology
   and Consulting Samuel F. Baldwin Bechtel Group, Inc. National Science
   and Technology Council, Agency Representative Nathan Rosenberg
   Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. Professor Assistant to the Chair of Public
   Policy Department of Economics Paul de Sa Stanford University Harvard
   University Staff Rosina Bierbaum Jeffrey Logan Office of Science and
   Technology Policy Battelle, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Ann
   Kinzig Susan Legro AAAS Roger Revelle Fellow Battelle, Pacific
   Northwest National Laboratory Office of Science and Technology Policy
   Thomas Secrest Martin Offutt Battelle, Pacific Northwest National
   Laboratory National Science and Technology Council Terry Fry Peter
   Backlund Bechtel Office of Science and Technology Policy Jacqueline C.
   Cragg Gerald Hane Library and Research Services Division Office of
   Science and Technology Policy Office of Administration Robert
   Marianelli Miranda Hall-Carrier Office of Science and Technology Policy
   Graphics and Printing Office of Administration Mike Rodemeyer Office of
   Science and Technology Policy Administrative Staff Bill Valdez Lorraine
   Cox National Science and Technology Council Department of Energy Agency
   Representative Nikki Kelly Mark Bernstein National Renewable Energy
   Laboratory RAND Greg Guibert Noreen Clancy Office of Science and
   Technology Policy RAND Cluster Myers Ron Diver National Renewable
   Energy Laboratory RAND Puri Soriben Caroline Wagner Bechtel RAND Sandy
   Toomey Meredydd Evans Office of Science and Technology Policy Battelle,
   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Paulette Wright Battelle, Pacific
   Northwest National Laboratory This was a Panel of fourteen persons of
   diverse backgrounds and viewpoints, tackling an immensely complex
   subject. Inevitably, not every member of the Panel is entirely happy
   with every formulation in the report. But we are unanimous that the
   main messages and overall balance in this joint product are correct and
   appropriate. CONTENTS Executive Summary ES- 1 1. U.S. Interests and
   Government Roles in International Cooperation on Energy Innovation 1- 1
   Origins, Focus, and Organization of the Study 1- 2 The U.S. Stake in
   International Cooperation on ERD3 1- 4 Rationales and Roles for
   Government Involvement 1-24 Interactions Between ERD3 Cooperation and
   Other National Policies 1-27 Leverage of International ERD3 Cooperation
   1-30 References 1-33 2. The International Landscape of ERD3 2- 1
   Describing ERD3 Activities 2- 1 An Evolving Landscape 2- 2 The Private
   Sector 2- 6 The Public Sector 2- 9 Other Major Players 2-21 Conclusions
   2-25 References 2-29 3. Foundations of International Cooperation on
   Energy Innovation 3- 1 Trends Affecting the ERD3 Pipeline 3- 2
   Strengthening the Elements of the ERD3 Pipeline 3- 4 Upgrading
   Public-Sector Performance 3- 8 Capacity Building 3-11 Shaping Energy
   Sector Reform 3-16 Finance 3-33 Filling the Gaps 3-39 Close 3-41
   References 3-43 4. Efficient End-Use Technologies 4- 1 What is at
   Stake? 4- 2 Opportunities for Improvement 4- 6 Buildings Sector 4- 7
   Transportation Sector 4-16 Industry 4-23 Close 4-31 References 4-34 ix
   5. Energy Supply Technologies 5- 1 Renewable Energy 5- 3 Fossil Fuels
   5-16 Nuclear Energy 5-24 Close 5-29 References 5-31 6. Portfolio
   Assessment, Partnering, and Program Management 6- 1 Portfolio
   Assessment 6- 1 Identifying and Developing Effective Partnerships 6- 6
   Program Management 6- 7 Management Initiatives 6-13 The Window of
   Opportunity 6-17 References 6-19 Appendices A. Acknowledgements A-1 B.
   Units and Conversion Factors B-1 C. Budget Tables from PCAST, "Federal
   Energy Research and Development for the C-1 Challenges of the
   Twenty-First Century D. Acronyms D-1 E. Glossary E-1 x TABLES 1. U.S.
   Interests and Government Roles in International Cooperation on Energy
   Innovation 1.1: World and Selected Country Energy and Economic Data for
   1997 1-6 1.2: Average Annual Global Rates of Change for Two Scenarios
   1-11 1.3: Population, GDP, and Energy and Carbon Intensities in Two
   Scenarios 1-12 1.4: Cumulative Investments in Energy Supply By Regions,
   1990-2020 and 1-20 2021-2050 1.5: Net Carbon Emissions Under IIASA-WEC
   Scenarios A2 and C1 1-21 2. The International Landscape of ERD3 2.1:
   Representative Federal Agencies' Roles in International ERD3 2-26 3.
   Foundations of International Cooperation on Energy Innovation 3.1:
   Representative Mechanisms for Incorporating Public Benefits 3-22 3.2:
   Indicators of Debt and Possible Debt for PBF Swaps 3-25 4. Efficient
   End-use Technologies 4.1: Barriers to Advanced Energy Efficient
   Technology RD3 4-3 4.2: Chinese Industry Remains Energy Inefficient 4-4
   4.3: Energy Demand by Economic Sector, 1985 and 1995 4-6 4.4: Emissions
   and Fuel Economy for Selected Bus Technologies 4-21 4.5: Energy
   Efficiency Investments Provide High Returns 4-26 4.6: Electricity
   Generation Rates for Alternative CHP Systems 4-27 4.7: Global Energy
   End-use and PCAST Initiatives 4-32 4.8: Global Distribution of Exposure
   to Suspended Particulate Matter 4-33 5. Energy Supply Technologies 5.1:
   Project Levelized Cost of Alternative Central Station
   Renewable-Electric 5-6 Technologies 5.2: Capital Costs for Electricity
   Storage 5-7 5.3: Projection of Coal Use and CO Emissions from Coal 5-19
   2 5.4: Global Energy Supply and PCAST Initiatives 5-30 6. Portfolio
   Assessment, Partnering, and Program Management 6.1: Financial Support
   Strategies for IERD3 Partnerships for Clean Energy 6-3 Technologies
   6.2: Congressional Concerns and Panel Findings 6-11 6.3: Breakdowns of
   Strategic Energy Cooperation Fund by Initiative Cluster 6-16 xi FIGURES
   1. U.S. Interests and Government Roles in International Cooperation on
   Energy- Technology Innovation 1.1: World Primary Energy Supply by
   Source, 1850 to 1997 1-8 1.2: Primary Energy contributions for
   IIASA-WEC scenarios A2 and C1 1-12 1.3: Distribution of Energy Growth
   in IIASA-WEC Scenario A2 1-22 2. The International Landscape of ERD3
   2.1: Base price and tax on regular unleaded gasoline, 1997 2-3 2.2:
   Power-sector finance for developing countries, 1985-1994 2-5 2.3: U.S.
   national expenditures on energy R&D, 1974-1996 2-6 2.4: U.S.
   collaborative ERD3 projects by agency expenditures, FY1997 2-10 2.5:
   U.S. collaborative ERD3 projects by partner, FY1997 2-11 2.6: U.S.
   collaborative ERD3 projects by area, FY 1997 2-11 3. Foundations of
   International Cooperation on Energy Innovation 3.1: Learning Curve and
   Buy-down for an Advanced Energy Technology 3-7 3.2:The RD3 Value Chain
   and Pipeline 3-10 3.3: Status of Power Sector Reform in Latin America
   3-21 3.4: Reduction in the Price of Power Offers Under the United
   Kingdom Non- 3-31 Fossil Fuel Obligation 3.5: Depiction of Use of
   Competitive Auctions to Buy Down the Cost of a 3-32 Technology 3.6:
   Learning Curve Relationships for Photovoltaics, Wind Generators, and
   Gas 3-33 Turbines 3.7: Filling in the "Gaps" in the Innovation Pipeline
   3-39 4. Efficient End-Use Technologies 4.1: Chinese Energy Intensity
   and Consumption, 1965-97 4-6 4.2: U.S. Refrigerator Energy Demand Over
   Time 4-10 4.3: A Few Sectors Dominate Global Industrial Energy Use 4-24
   4.4: Cogeneration Provides a Significant Share of European Electric
   Power 4-27 5. Energy Supply Technologies 5.1: The Carbon Intensity of
   Primary Energy Consumption for Selected 5-25 Countries 6. Portfolio
   Assessment, Partnering, and Program Management 6.1: A Strategic
   Framework for International Cooperation on Energy RD3 6-17 xiii BOXES
   1. U.S. Interests and Government Roles in International Cooperation on
   Energy Innovation 1.1: The IIASA-WEC Energy Scenarios for the 21st
   Century 1-11 1.2: Small Particle Pollution and Chronic Health Problems
   1-14 1.3: The Assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
   Change 1-17 1.4: Climate Science Since the Second IPCC Assessment 1-19
   2. The International Landscape of ERD3 2.1: Fostering the International
   Dialogue on Energy 2-14 2.2: USAID Programs in India 2-21 3.
   Foundations of International Cooperation on Energy Innovation 3.1:
   Brazil's National Electricity Conservation Program 3-12 3.2: Energy
   Efficiency Centers in Eastern Europe, the Former Soviet Union and 3-13
   China 3.3: Argentinian Concessions for Rural Electrification 3-23 3.4:
   Market Transformation Initiatives and the Restructuring of the Electric
   3-30 Industries 3.5: World Bank Policy Mechanisms Encouraging Clean
   Energy Technologies 3-35 3.6: The Clean Development Mechanism 3-37 3.7:
   Tied Aid 3-40 3.8: International Standards and Conformity Assessment
   Procedures 3-41 4. Efficient End-Use Technologies 4.1: China Has Made
   Dramatic Progress in Energy Efficiency 4-6 4.2: Urban Transport Success
   Story: Curitiba, Brazil 4-19 4.3: Motorized Bikes for Developing
   Countries 4-22 5. Energy Supply Technologies 5.1: "Baseload" Inner
   Mongolian Wind Power for Distant Chinese Markets 5-7 5.2: The Wind
   Energy Resource Development Concession 5-8 5.3: Co-production of
   Synthetic LPG and Electricity from Grain Crop Residues 5-9 in China
   5.4: The Global Wind-Energy Market 5-11 5.5: The Global PV Market 5-11
   xv EXECUTIVE SUMMARY his Panel has reviewed the U.S. stake in gic
   Energy Cooperation, under the auspices of international cooperation on
   energy inno- the National Science and Technology Council, Tvation, the
   complementary roles of the to provide a strategic vision of and
   coordination public and private sectors in pursuing such co- for the
   government's efforts in international co- operation, and the existing
   array of activities operation on energy-technology innovation. The
   being carried out by the Federal government to government's
   contribution to this expansion of this end. Based on that review, we
   conclude that international energy cooperation activities would
   existing Federal programs for energy coopera- be provided by a new
   Strategic Energy Coopera- tion-which were funded in FY 1997 at less
   tion Fund, amounting to $250 million for than $250 million per year-are
   not commensu- FY2001 and increasing to $500 million in rate with either
   the needs or the opportunities. FY2005, the proposed allocation of
   which to the We therefore recommend substantially strength- relevant
   agencies in the President's budget re- ening these programs-expanding
   their cover- quest would be determined with the help of the age,
   increasing their funding, improving the Interagency Working Group.
   processes for their evaluation, and providing for them an over-arching
   strategic vision and a mechanism for coordinating its implementation.
   U.S. interests and values at stake in energy We propose specific
   initiatives for strengthening the foundations of energy- can only be
   effectively addressed technology innovation and international coop- in
   a global context eration relating to it (including capacity build- ing,
   energy-sector reform, and mechanisms for demonstration, cost-buy-down,
   and financing of advanced technologies); for increased coopera- tion on
   research, development, demonstration, The U.S. Stake in International
   and deployment (RD3) of technologies govern- Cooperation on Energy
   Innovation ing the efficiency of energy use in buildings,
   energy-intensive industries, and small vehicles and buses, as well as
   of cogeneration of heat and nergy is tightly linked to U.S. economic, E
   power; and for increased cooperation on RD3 of environmental, and
   national-security inter- fossil-fuels-decarbonization and
   carbon-seques- ests. tration technologies, biomass-energy and other
   renewable-energy technologies, and nuclear fis- U.S. economic interests
   in energy-tech- sion and fusion. nology innovation include controlling
   costs of energy to U.S. consumers and industries; Most importantly-for
   without this none avoiding inflation and recession (in this of the
   other initiatives we propose are likely to country and worldwide) from
   oil-price achieve their potential-we recommend creation shocks;
   limiting the impact of energy im- of a new Interagency Working Group on
   Strate- ports on the U.S. balance of trade; expand- ES-1 Powerful
   Partnerships ing the market share of U.S. companies in Not only U.S.
   interests but also basic U.S. the multi-hundred-billion dollar per year
   values-respect for human dignity and hu- global energy-technology
   market; and en- man rights, belief in equity and opportunity, hancing
   long-term markets for other U.S. commitment to assistance for the least
   fortu- exports by building the energy basis for sus- nate and to
   stewardship for future genera- tainable prosperity in developing and
   transi- tions and for the environment-dictate U.S. tion economies.
   leadership in international cooperation on energy innovation for
   sustainable develop- ment. U.S. economic interests in energy- .S.
   interests and values at stake in energy U technology innovation include
   expanding can only be effectively addressed in a the market share of
   U.S. companies in the global context. multi-hundred-billion dollar per
   year global energy-technology market The problems and opportunities
   related to oil, energy-technology markets, nuclear pro- liferation,
   climate change, and develop- ment/security interactions are all
   inherently global. Environmentally, accelerated energy-tech- nology
   innovation can increase the pace and Effective responses to these
   issues must take decrease the cost at which high-environ- into account
   the globalization of capital mental-impact technologies and practices
   markets, manufacturing, innovation capaci- are replaced with low-impact
   ones in the ties and activities, and information flow. United States
   and abroad. This will reduce the health impacts of air pollution and
   the "business as usual" energy future-without ecological effects of
   acid deposition in this rapid technological innovation A and in-
   country and elsewhere, improve the safety creased cooperation to
   diffuse the results of nuclear reactors everywhere, reduce oil
   worldwide-would be problem-plagued and po- spills in the world's
   oceans, slow the pace of tentially disastrous. greenhouse-gas-induced
   climate change, and help create a framework for long-term coop- eration
   on the energy/climate challenge in World energy demand under
   business-as- which developing, transition, and industrial- usual would
   double from its 1997 value by ized countries alike will participate.
   2025 or 2030, triple by 2050 or 2060, and more than quadruple by 2100;
   by far the largest part of this growth would take place U.S. security
   interests in energy-technology in the countries currently classified as
   de- innovation include reducing the potential for veloping. conflict
   over access to oil and gas resources; minimizing links between the use
   of nu- clear-energy technologies and the acquisi- Oil imports, oil
   prices, and the potential for tion of nuclear-weapons capabilities by
   na- oil-induced economic disruption and conflict tions of proliferation
   concern or by subna- would all rise. tional groups; and avoiding, for
   all coun- tries, energy problems with economic, envi- U.S.
   understanding of, access to, and crea- ronmental, or political
   consequences severe tion of products for global energy- enough to
   aggravate or generate possibilities technology markets all would become
   in- for armed conflict. creasingly inadequate. ES-2 Executive Summary
   U.S. withdrawal from nuclear energy- lower the emissions intensity of
   energy sup- technology innovation and cooperation ply with respect to
   greenhouse gases, par- would reduce U.S. leverage to minimize nu-
   ticulate matter, and gaseous precursors of clear energy's global safety
   and proliferation regional smogs, hazes, and acid deposition risks.
   (SOx, NOx, hydrocarbons); Attempts to fuel the bulk of developing-
   reduce, below what they would otherwise country economic growth with
   conventional be, the monetary costs of delivering energy coal and oil
   technologies would create a col- services in environmentally
   sustainable lision between economic aspirations and the ways;
   environmental underpinnings of well-being, with the potential to wreck
   both. broaden the range of energy options avail- able to the United
   States and other countries, The atmospheric concentration of carbon
   thus increasing the capacity of the national dioxide under
   business-as-usual would be and global energy system to cope with the
   likely to reach 3 times its pre-industrial level inevitable surprises.
   by 2100, an increase regarded by most cli- matologists as well beyond
   the bounds of .S. participation in international coopera- prudence.
   Ution in pursuit of these innovations is clearly needed to: increase
   the pace and lower the cost of U.S. U.S. security interests in
   energy-technology acquisition of the innovations it needs for it-
   innovation include avoiding, for all self; countries, energy problems
   with economic, environmental, or political consequences gain access for
   U.S. firms to the large over- severe enough to aggravate or generate
   seas markets for innovative energy tech- possibilities for armed
   conflict nologies; address the global dimensions of energy challenges
   by accelerated development and lthough aspects of the energy future are
   in- deployment of innovations worldwide. evitably uncertain, within a A
   wide range of possibilities the acceptable outcomes all require major
   innovations in energy technology in order Private-Sector &
   Public-Sector Roles to: in International Energy Cooperation lower the
   energy intensity of economic ac- he private sector already plays a
   large role tivity, thus reducing chances that constraints Tin
   energy-technology innovation and in in- on expanding energy supply will
   constrain ternational cooperation relating to it, and this economic
   growth, reducing the pressure of role is growing over time. high energy
   growth to use higher- environmental-impact sources along with The large
   role is evident in the size of the lower-impact ones, and reducing
   environ- private shares in U.S. total R&D (about 65 mental impacts of
   the energy-supply system percent private in 1997), U.S. energy- overall
   in proportion to its size; technology R&D (about 60 percent private in
   1997), and global North-South capital flows (about 85 percent private
   in 1997). ES-3 Powerful Partnerships Growth in these private roles over
   time re- overnment interventions should nonetheless G flects trends in
   privatization and globaliza- always be cognizant of the large and grow-
   tion of the world economy and in the priva- ing role of the private
   sector, whose resources tization, deregulation, and restructuring of
   for energy-technology R&D somewhat exceed, the energy industries. and
   whose resources for energy-tech-nology deployment far exceed, those of
   governments. here remains a need for government in- This means that
   government initiatives in ERD3 Tvolvem ent because the public interest
   in en- should be: ergy outcomes goes beyond the sum of perceived
   private interests. structured to encourage, catalyze, and com- plement
   the corresponding activities of the Privatization, deregulation, and
   restructuring private sector, not replace them; of energy industries
   help bring private capi- tal into the energy sector, but these same
   focused on lowering specific barriers or ad- forces can lead to neglect
   of the ways the dressing specific shortfalls relating to the
   composition and operation of energy sys- private sector's incentives
   and capacity to tems affect the wider public interest (includ- fully
   address society's interests in energy ing meeting the basic needs of
   the poor, as innovation; well as addressing the other macroeconomic,
   environmental, international-secur-ity, and designed to be limited in
   the rate and dura- values issues listed above). tion of the
   government's investment, with specific criteria for terminating
   projects that Many of these public interests will only be fall short
   and for handing off successful adequately addressed if investments in
   en- ones to the private sector. ergy-technology innovation are made
   with longer time horizons (lower discount rates) here is a wide array
   of mechanisms through and less risk aversion than the discount rates
   which T the government can support interna- and degrees of risk
   aversion prevailing in tional ERD3 cooperation, including participation
   the commercial marketplace. in, funding for, or other encouragement of
   coop- erative efforts in: The gap between what the private sector does
   and what society's interests require is the conduct of fundamental
   energy-related further enlarged by a variety of barriers to research
   and applied energy-technology efficient market performance, which may
   R&D; include inadequate information, excessive concentration or
   fragmentation in markets, demonstration and niche and pre- high
   transactions costs, and more. commercial deployment of innovative en-
   ergy technologies; Additional rationales for government en- gagement
   include complementarity of gov- shaping the environment for commercial
   ernment and private capabilities and the de- deployment of innovative
   energy technolo- sirability of reducing the deleterious effects
   gies-increasing incentives, lowering barri- on international
   energy-technology coopera- ers (especially in relation to finance), and
   tion of existing government policies (includ- setting appropriate
   standards-to reflect ing not only those focused on energy and their
   public benefits; environmental issues per se but also trade policy,
   foreign policy, intellectual property rights policy, and so on).
   capacity building, integrated assessment, and institutional innovation
   in support of these approaches. ES-4 Executive Summary xisting U.S.
   government activities in inter- agreed deserve highest priority in each
   clus- national ERD3 E cooperation are significant ter are described in
   this Executive Summary. and often effective, but they are insufficient
   in The body of the report expands on these relation to the challenges
   and the opportunities. high-priority elements and presents other The
   deficiencies are in scale, comprehensiveness elements that the panel
   regarded as impor- and appropriateness of matching mechanisms to tant.
   needs, coordination, and evaluation. A study conducted by RAND for this
   Panel indicates that Federal government spending Existing Federal
   Programs for energy on international ERD3 activities by DOE, USAID,
   EPA, and the Nuclear Regulatory cooperation are not commensurate with
   Commission in FY1997 was about $230 either the needs or the
   opportunities million, more than half of it on fusion and fission. The
   international ERD3 activities of these All of our recommendations
   proceed from agencies, while generally well focused and the presumption
   that the recommendations effective, are inadequate in relation to the
   of the 1997 PCAST study of U.S. domestic opportunities and
   insufficiently coordinated energy R&D programs are being imple- with
   each other and with the efforts of the mented. Effective international
   outreach other Federal agencies engaged in the fi- must have sturdy
   domestic roots. nancing of energy-technology deployment, which include
   the Ex-Im Bank, the Trade Estimated budgets are provided here at the
   and Development Agency, and the Overseas level of the initiative
   clusters-covering Private Investment Corporation. both the "high
   priority" and "other impor- tant" elements in each-in the form of an
   There is neither an over-arching strategic initial funding level for
   FY2001 and a level vision integrating and ensuring the compre- for
   FY2005 (in as-spent dollars). These fig- hensiveness of the array of
   Federal activities ures are intended to be supplemental to ex- on
   international energy RD3 cooperation nor isting budgets for
   international ERD3 activi- a mechanism for implementing such a vision
   ties and to the budgets proposed in the 1997 in a coherent and
   efficient way. PCAST study for domestic energy R&D programs; and they
   are intended to cover both the "high priority" and "other impor- tant"
   initiative elements described. Initiatives The great diversity of
   technical options and e believe that initiatives in four catego- even
   greater diversity of geographic, eco- Wries-foundations of energy
   innovation and nomic, and institutional environments in cooperation,
   energy end-use efficiency, energy- which these options might be applied
   made supply technologies, and management of the it impractical, within
   the limited time and government's activities in support of ERD3 co-
   resources available for a study of this kind, operation-are required to
   narrow the gap be- to develop a fully comprehensive and priori- tween
   the Federal programs that exist and the tized set of recommendations
   for all of the needs they seek to address. cooperative activities that
   could and should be done in the decades ahead. But we be- Each category
   contains three to four initia- lieve what we are proposing here
   constitutes tive clusters. The elements that the Panel the core of a
   sensible program for the next five years. ES-5 Powerful Partnerships
   The list of high-priority opportunities we electricity-conservation
   program in Bra- present here is based on a preliminary at- zil,
   energy-efficiency centers in Eastern tempt to take into account the
   potential lev- Europe and Russia, and other centers in erage of
   different options against U.S. inter- Africa, Asia, and Latin America)
   and es- ests and values affected by the energy chal- tablishment of new
   sustainable-energy lenges in different regions and worldwide, centers
   in regions with significant need the likelihood of success based on the
   that cannot be met by other means; and strengths and experience the
   partners would bring to the prospective cooperative efforts, (2)
   expansion of existing-and develop- the timeliness of the efforts in
   terms of win- ment of new-training programs for en- dows of opportunity
   and maturity of needed ergy analysts and managers, to include technical
   and institutional ingredients, com- traveling workshops and
   internet-based plementarity with private-sector efforts, and courses
   and expert assistance, as well as likely cost-effectiveness. a
   requirement that in-country technical and managerial training be a
   component of NGO technology demonstration and Success in international
   cooperation depends deployment projects supported by the strongly on
   engagement of all of the partners U.S. government. and technology
   users, from the beginning, in defining goals, outlining tasks, and
   setting priorities. While our recommendations have been developed in
   consultation with experts from many other countries, the details of
   Government initiatives should be what specific projects should go
   forward at structured to encourage, catalyze, what levels, under the
   auspices of what U.S. and complement the corresponding agencies, with
   what partner countries and activities of the private sector,
   institutions will need to be worked out with not replace them the help
   of an interactive process in which the agencies, the Interagency
   Working Group described further below, the foreign partners, and the
   users are all involved. The energy-sector reform cluster is designed he
   first category of initiatives comprises to support and shape
   energy-sector reform measures to build stronger T foundations for and
   restructuring-moving towards open energy-technology innovation and
   interna- competitive markets with improved financial tional cooperation
   relating to it. It consists of performance-while retaining incentives
   for initiative clusters focused on capacity building, energy-technology
   innovation that address energy-sector reform, demonstration and cost
   public goods and externalities. Recom- buy-down, and financing. mended
   for funding at $20 million per year in FY2001, increasing to $40
   million per The capacity-building cluster, designed to year in FY2005,
   it has as high-priority ele- prepare the ground for rapid and
   sustainable ments: energy-technology innovation, is recom- mended for
   funding at $20 million per year (1) technical and policy
   advice-including in FY2001, increasing to $40 million per through
   direct provision of personnel to year in FY2005. It contains as
   high-priority the relevant partner-country organiza- elements: tions or
   through multilateral institu- tions-to countries considering or un- (1)
   increased support for existing regional dergoing energy-sector reform,
   with centers for RD3 of sustainable energy emphasis on (a) "getting
   prices right" options (such as the PROCEL national through elimination
   of price controls ES-6 Executive Summary and subsidies for conventional
   energy (3) provision of assistance in establishing a sources and
   through internalizing envi- Clean Energy Technology Obligation
   ronmental costs, and (b) creating Public (CETO), preferably at the GEF,
   that Benefits Funds (PBFs) to provide re- would use competitive
   instruments to sources for advancing public benefits in "buy down" the
   costs of targeted inno- the restructured energy sector-with vative
   technologies with incremental funds raised through non-bypassable cost
   support provided by the GEF and wires/pipes charges or by other means,
   by the host country through PBFs or including initial support from debt
   government grants. swaps in appropriate cases; and The financing
   cluster, aimed at overcoming (2) assistance in establishing
   evolutionary financial barriers to deployment of clean and regulatory
   frameworks for natural gas efficient energy technologies in developing
   grids, beginning with simple pipeline and transition economies, is
   recommended systems linking large gas producers with for funding at $40
   million per year in large users and growing into grids serv- FY2001,
   increasing to $80 million per year ing a much wider range of producers
   in FY2005. Its high-priority elements are: and consumers. (1) measures
   to encourage increased financ- The cluster on demonstration and cost
   buy- ing for clean and efficient energy tech- down mechanisms is
   designed to facilitate nologies from the Multilateral Devel- the
   demonstration, in foreign contexts, of opment Banks (MDBs), including
   (a) advanced energy technologies with signifi- establishing or
   expanding "trust funds" cant public benefits and to provide the through
   the relevant U.S. agencies (such means to "buy down" to competitive
   levels as DOE, USAID, EPA, and the U.S. the costs of technologies in
   this category Trade and Development Agency), which that have
   learning-curve characteristics mak- the MDBs can draw upon to support
   ing this practical. Recommended for fund- agency-approved technical
   assistance ing at $40 million per year in FY2001, in- for project
   planning work, and (b) de- creasing to $80 million per year in FY2005,
   veloping contingency plans and mecha- it has as high-priority elements:
   nisms for reinforcing, if necessary, the transition in World Bank and
   other (1) provision of assistance in establishing a MDB energy-project
   funding away from Demonstration Support Facility (DSF), conventional
   energy technologies in fa- preferably at the Global Environment vor of
   clean energy technologies (which Facility (GEF), to provide a framework
   is being driven by the ability of re- for clean-energy demonstration
   projects formed energy markets to attract private that would attract
   support from the pri- capital for conventional technologies vate sector
   as well as from various pub- and the desirability of not distorting
   lic-sector sources (including the GEF these markets with publicly
   supported and PBFs and government grants in host MDB funds); and
   countries); (2) additional measures implemented by (2) awarding of
   energy-production tax cred- U.S. agencies to facilitate market-based
   its to U.S. firms participating in demon- finance of clean and
   efficient energy stration projects that are carried out un-
   technologies, including creating a fund der the DSF and that meet
   approved cri- administered by the Overseas Private teria (including
   being formulated so as Investment Corporation (OPIC) to pro- not to
   conflict with U.S. opposition to vide financing for these types of
   projects tied aid); and (to be phased out as the MDBs complete ES-7
   Powerful Partnerships the transition to supporting clean energy cluding
   assistance with training, moni- technologies and advancing other public
   toring, compliance, and enforcement benefits). programs and with
   software tools; he second category of initiatives addresses (3) U.S.
   encouragement for the GEF, World specific opportunities T for
   international co- Bank, and other multilateral financing operation for
   innovation on energy-end-use institutions to support development and
   technologies. It consists of initiative clusters adoption of the
   measures described here focused on energy-efficient buildings, improved
   as part of an aggressive pursuit of build- small vehicles and buses,
   factories of the 21st ing-energy efficiency improvements century, and
   cogeneration of heat and power. throughout their grant and lending pro-
   grams. The buildings cluster has the goal of reduc- ing energy use in
   new appliances, homes, The vehicles cluster is aimed at research, and
   commercial buildings in developing and development, and demonstration
   of cleaner, transition countries by 50 percent over the more
   energy-efficient buses and two- and next two decades compared to
   current per- three-wheeled vehicles and at accelerating formance.
   Recommended for funding at the deployment of such vehicles in develop-
   $20 million per year in FY2001, increasing ing and transition
   countries. Recommended to $40 million per year in FY2005, its high- for
   funding at $20 million per year in priority elements are: FY2001,
   increasing to $40 million per year in FY2005, its high-priority
   elements are: (1) technical and policy assistance-with participation
   from DOE, EPA, and (1) integration and expansion of activities of
   USAID-for the development and im- DOE, EPA, and USAID, and encour-
   plementation of efficiency standards for, agement of the same in the
   GEF, on co- and ratings and labeling of, building operative RD3 of
   low-cost, clean, effi- equipment and appliances, including co- cient
   power sources for transportation- operation in setting up appliance and
   particularly fuel-cell systems for two- equipment testing laboratories
   and pro- and three-wheeled vehicles and hybrid grams, in developing and
   analyzing and fuel-cell systems for buses, as well standards, in
   harmonizing test proce- as electric and alternative-fuel propul- dures
   and standards where there is U.S. sion systems where appropriate, and
   en- interest in doing so, and in implement- couragement of joint
   ventures involving ing voluntary energy-efficiency labeling U.S. and
   foreign companies to manufac- and promotion programs similar to the
   ture these vehicles and fuel-production DOE/EPA "Energy Star" program;
   systems; (2) similarly organized technical and policy (2) U.S.
   encouragement for the GEF, Inter- assistance for development,
   distribution, national Finance Corporation, World and training in the
   use of building- Bank, and other multilateral develop- design software
   that minimizes energy ment banks to help finance the vehicle- use in
   residential and commercial build- manufacturing capacity,
   infrastructure, ings while enhancing building livability and
   consumer-credit systems necessary and amenity value; for development
   and for large-scale deployment of these ad- monitoring of building
   design competi- vanced vehicles; tions to push the envelope of building
   energy performance; and for develop- (3) EPA assistance to developing
   and transi- ment, analysis, and implementation of tion countries for
   the analysis and im- building energy codes and standards, in-
   plementation of emissions standards, in- ES-8 Executive Summary cluding
   establishment of vehicle testing licensing to facilitate technology
   trans- and inspection programs for all types of fer between U.S. firms
   and their part- motor vehicles. ners. The cogeneration cluster is aimed
   at promot- ing the use of combined-heat-and-power A "Business-as-Usual"
   energy future (CHP) technologies for new power supply, would be
   problem-plagued with a goal of providing 20 percent of new and
   potentially disastrous generating capacity in developing countries over
   the next few decades using CHP. Rec- ommended for funding at $10
   million per year in FY2001, increasing to $20 million per year in
   FY2005, it contains as its high- The factories of the 21st century
   cluster priority elements: aims at engaging U.S. industry in partner-
   ships to reduce the energy intensity of major (1) cooperation between
   the U.S. public and energy-using industrial processes in key de-
   private sectors and foreign counterparts veloping and transition
   countries over the on CHP information and education pro- next two
   decades by 40 percent compared to grams, including regional workshops,
   their current performance, while improving for public- and
   private-sector partici- labor and capital productivity. This effort
   pants; will be guided by the on-going U.S. "Indus- tries of the Future"
   program, focusing on ar- (2) collaborative assessments of power and eas
   of high foreign market growth in energy- heat loads and output ratios
   at potential intensive materials. Recommended for fund- CHP sites in
   order to identify favorable ing at $10 million per year in FY2001, in-
   conditions for CHP, address potential creasing to $20 million per year
   in FY2005, regulatory and market barriers, help at- its high-priority
   elements are: tract funding for demonstrations, and help secure
   financing for deployment; (1) cooperation between the U.S. public and
   and private sectors and foreign counterparts to develop "technology
   roadmaps" for (3) support of reforms in domestic regula- more
   productive and energy-efficient tory structures, through assistance by
   industrial processes geared to local cir- U.S. experts from DOE, AID,
   and EPA, cumstances, with emphasis on energy- to "level the playing
   field" for CHP and intensive basic-materials industries such for U.S.
   CHP equipment, including as iron and steel, chemicals, pulp and
   provision for power sales to the grid at paper, and cement; market
   rates, nondiscriminatory power buy-back rates, interconnection and (2)
   cooperative development and implemen- emissions standards, and
   nondiscrimina- tation, starting from these roadmaps, of tory
   international standards for CHP RD3 workplans including human and in-
   equipment. stitutional capacity building, precom- petitive research and
   development, tech- he third category of initiatives addresses nical
   exchanges, and pilot demonstration Tspecific opportunities for
   international co- programs; operation for innovation on energy-supply
   technologies. It consists of initiative clusters (3) support by U.S.
   and partner govern- focused on widespread use of renewable energy ments
   for project development and im- technologies, fossil-fuel
   decarbonization and plementation, joint-venture creation, and ES-9
   Powerful Partnerships CO2 sequestration, and nuclear fission and fu-
   newable energy resources on a region- sion. by-region basis. The
   widespread renewables cluster is aimed at accelerating the development
   and de- ployment of biomass, wind, photovoltaic, Basic U.S.
   values-respect for human dig- solar thermal, and other renewable energy
   nity and human rights, belief in equity and technologies, including
   tailoring and deploy- opportunity, commitment to assistance for ing
   these to support rural development in the least fortunate and to
   stewardship for developing countries, such that in the second quarter
   of the 21st century renewables could future generations and for the
   environ- make contributions to world energy supply ment-dictate U.S.
   leadership in interna- comparable to the contributions from fossil
   tional cooperation in energy innovation fuels today. Recommended for
   funding at $40 million per year in FY2001, increasing to $80 million in
   FY2005, its high-priority elements are: The fossil-fuel decarbonization
   and CO 2 sequestration cluster is designed to develop, (1) promotion of
   collaborative RD3 on in- via a broad multinational collaborative ef-
   dustrial-scale biomass energy conver- fort, fuels decarbonization and
   carbon- sion technologies, emphasizing those sequestration technologies
   that would even- that provide both electricity and one or tually make
   possible the economic use of more co-products (heat, fluid fuels,
   fossil fuels with near-zero lifecycle CO chemicals, food, fiber), as
   well as col- 2 emissions and near-zero pollutant emissions, laborative
   research on the restoration of as well as to advance, in developing and
   degraded lands and their use for grow- transition countries in the near
   term, syngas- ing crops optimized to yield multiple based technologies
   that would facilitate the products; transition toward near-zero
   lifecycle CO 2 emissions. This initiative would build on ac- (2)
   expansion of existing programs with tivities under DOE's "Vision 21".
   Recom- selected developing- and transition- mended for funding at $20
   million per year country partners to develop integrated in FY2001,
   increasing to $40 million per systems involving renewable energy year
   in FY2005, its high-priority elements technologies and their hybrids
   with fos- are: sil energy to provide complete energy services for
   agricultural, residential, and (1) cooperation to promote energy-sector
   village-scale commercial and industrial and environmental reforms in
   develop- applications in rural areas; ing and transition countries,
   making it more advantageous to produce multiple (3) collaboration in
   measures to accelerate clean products from syngas derived the
   deployment of grid-connected in- from natural gas, coal, and other
   carbo- termittent renewable electric technolo- naceous feedstocks; gies
   and their hybrids with fossil energy using competitive instruments
   (such as (2) collaborative R&D and demonstrations CETO competitions),
   including facilita- of technologies designed to reduce the tion of
   participation of U.S. firms in this cost of making hydrogen from
   carbona- process; and ceous feedstocks while facilitating the recovery
   of byproduct CO (4) development, in collaboration with ap- 2 for
   ultimate disposal; and. propriate partners, of assessments of re- ES-10
   Executive Summary (3) collaborative efforts on CO2 sequestra-
   participation in new and continuing tion to develop standards for
   security of smaller fusion experiments in the United CO2 storage,
   conduct environmental States. impact studies, carry out both region-by-
   region assessments of sequestration po- ur last category of initiatives
   addresses tential and detailed reservoir-by-reser- Omechanisms and
   institutions through voir analyses of storage capacity and which the
   U.S. government, in cooperation other characteristics, and carry out
   dem- with the private sector, can more effectively onstrations with
   monitoring of storage develop, manage, and coordinate a portfolio of
   security; governmental activities in support of interna- tional ERD3
   cooperation consistent with an overarching vision of what this
   portfolio is to The nuclear cluster, aimed at preserving and
   accomplish. Our high-priority recommenda- enhancing the possibility
   that nuclear energy tions in this category are as follows: could play
   an expanding role in addressing climate change and other energy-related
   The President should establish a new Inter- challenges in the next
   century, is recom- agency Working Group on Strategic Energy mended for
   funding at $10 million per year Cooperation in the National Science and
   in FY2001, increasing to $20 million per Technology Council (NSTC) to
   further de- year in FY2005. It contains as high-priority velop and
   promote a strategic vision of the elements: role of the government's
   contributions to in- ternational ERD3 cooperation in support of (1)
   addition of an explicit international this country's interests and
   values. This component to the DOE's new Nuclear NSTC working group
   would: Energy Research Initiative (NERI), promoting bilateral and
   multilateral re- (1) have an interagency secretariat and an search
   focused on advanced technolo- Advisory Board drawn from the private,
   gies for improving the cost, safety, academic, and NGO sectors; waste
   management, and proliferation re- sistance of nuclear fission energy
   sys- (2) be responsible for continuing assess- tems; ment of the
   government's full portfolio of activities in international ERD3 coop-
   (2) expansion and strengthening of interna- eration-building on this
   study and in tional cooperative efforts in studies and consideration of
   the overarching strat- information exchange on geologic dis- egy of the
   effort, the needed components posal of spent fuel and high-level of the
   innovation "pipeline" and links wastes, to include expanded participa-
   between these, and appropriate diversity tion, studies of international
   interim- and public-private-interface criteria- storage facilities, and
   development of a and for using the results of such portfo- consistent
   and rigorous international lio assessment to help guide and coordi-
   regulatory framework for both interim nate the evolution of the
   relevant agency storage and geologic disposal of these programs;
   materials; (3) pursuit of a new international agreement (3) assist the
   agencies to strengthen their in- on fusion R&D that commits the parties
   ternal and external mechanisms for to a broad range of collaborations
   on all monitoring and reviewing projects, for aspects of fusion energy
   development, terminating unsuccessful ones, and for while selectively
   enhancing U.S. par- handing off successful ones to the pri- ticipation
   in existing fusion experiments vate sector at the appropriate time.
   abroad and inviting increased foreign ES-11 Powerful Partnerships In
   addition to these strengthened review them in FY1997.) The money from
   the procedures and the interagency portfolio as- Strategic Energy
   Cooperation Fund would sessment effort, needed improvements in the be
   mechanisms for development and manage- ment of international ERD3
   cooperation (1) allocated to the relevant agencies in the programs
   within the agencies include President's budget request as the out- come
   of a process engaging the agen- (1) use of competitive solicitations by
   the cies, the Office of Management and agencies, in cooperation with
   foreign Budget, and the Interagency Task Force counterparts, to
   identify the most prom- on Strategic Energy Cooperation and its ising
   approaches to achieving portfolio Advisory Board; and program goals,
   with a well devel- oped business plan for moving a tech- (2) multi-year
   in duration in most instances, nology through the RD3 pipeline a pre-
   to diminish the influence of annual requisite for winning a
   competition; funding cycles on project selection and continuation and
   to promote the continu- (2) identification, by the Cabinet Secretaries
   ity of commitment that has often been or administrators of the key
   agencies lacking in U.S. international-cooperation implementing the
   ERD3 cooperation efforts. portfolio, of appropriate accountable
   management chains with authority and Money made available, within the
   program's budgets for implementing international indicated FY2001-2005
   trajectory, by phasing ERD3 programs; out support for projects that
   either fail or that succeed and get taken over by the private sector
   (3) strengthening these agencies' interna- could be used for further
   high-leverage projects tional capabilities through training, tar-
   identified through the continuing interactions of geted hiring, and
   rotating national labo- agencies, the Interagency Task Force and its
   ratory staff and outside academic and Advisory Board, foreign partners,
   and other en- industrial technical experts through the ergy-technology
   users. agencies on a systematic basis, giving these persons senior
   professional status with significant responsibility for guid- ing
   program planning and policy. Conclusion The costs of the U.S.
   government contribu- tions to the initiatives described in this re- he
   United States and the world face an his- T port would be covered by a
   new Strategic toric window of opportunity. Energy Cooperation Fund,
   supplementing existing budgets for international ERD3 ac- Processes of
   energy-sector restructuring and tivities and the budgets proposed in
   the 1997 regulatory reform that will be completed PCAST study for U.S.
   domestic energy largely over the next decade will "lock in" R&D
   programs. The amounts estimated for the mechanisms that will determine
   success the four "foundation", four "end-use- or failure in the dual
   aims of attracting the efficiency", and three "energy-supply" ini-
   private capital needed to meet energy needs tiative clusters we have
   recommended sum for economic development while addressing to $250
   million per year in FY2001 and the huge public-goods and externality
   issues $500 million per year in FY2005. (The in- that the energy sector
   presents. crement for FY2001 adds an amount of new money for these
   types of activities approxi- Continuing processes of rapid urbanization
   mately equal to the total that was spent on in the developing countries
   mean that deci- ES-12 Executive Summary sions made in those countries
   in the next few nologies; and the globalization of environ- decades
   about the interaction of urban en- mental and security risks from
   inadequacies ergy supply, transportation networks, infor- in the global
   portfolio of deployed energy mation infrastructure, land-use planning,
   and options is sharply increasing the benefits to building
   characteristics will likewise sub- the United States of cooperation to
   improve stantially "lock in", for the next century and that portfolio.
   even beyond, important aspects of the en- ergy requirements and quality
   of life of the Strengthening North-South cooperation on large majority
   of the world's inhabitants liv- advanced energy technologies that can
   lower ing in these urban agglomerations. greenhouse-gas emissions while
   fueling sus- tainable economic development is by far the The time
   requirements for moving new most promising available approach to secur-
   technologies through the innovation pipeline ing developing-country
   participation in a mean that much of the research intended to larger
   collaborative framework for address- affect deployments in the 2020s,
   2030s, and ing the global energy-climate-develop-ment 2040s needs to be
   underway in the next dec- challenge. ade. And the long service
   lifetimes of most energy-supply technologies and much of the equipment
   and infrastructure governing en- ergy end-use efficiency means that
   much of The energy technologies and related what is deployed in the
   2020s, 2030s, and 2040s will still be in place toward the end of
   infrastructures that are developed and de- the next century. ployed
   over the next few decades will strongly influence the world energy Thus
   the energy technologies and related system for most of the next century
   infrastructures that are developed and de- ployed over the next few
   decades- supporting rapid energy growth in develop- ing and transition
   economies and replacing The needs and opportunities for enhanced inter-
   existing capital stock in industrialized national cooperation on
   energy-technology in- ones-will strongly influence the trajecto-
   novation supportive of U.S. interests and values ries of energy costs
   and end-use efficiencies, are thus both large and urgent. The costs and
   greenhouse-gas emissions, public-health im- risks are modest in
   relation to the potential pacts of air pollution, oil-import depend-
   gains. Now is the time for the United States to ence,
   nuclear-energy-system safety and pro- take the sensible and affordable
   steps outlined liferation resistance...and much else of im- here to
   address the international dimensions of portance about the world energy
   system for the energy challenges to U.S. interests and val- most of the
   next century. ues that the 21st century will present. The globalization
   of innovation capacities, together with tightening constraints on do-
   mestic R&D spending, have sharply in- creased the attractiveness of
   cooperation to the United States for purposes of developing the energy
   technologies this country will re- quire for domestic use.
   Simultaneously, the globalization of energy markets has in- creased the
   necessity of cooperation to gain access for United States energy
   companies to many of the largest markets for new tech- ES-13 Table
   ES-1: INITIATIVES AND BUDGETS (Budget in $Millions of Supplemental
   Spending Above Current Agency or PCAST 97 Levels) Initiative
   FOUNDATIONS OF ENERGY INNOVATION Page FY01 FY05 Capacity Building
   --Increase support for regional centers of ERD3 3-14 $20 M $40 M
   --Expand existing and develop new training programs on energy
   --(Interdisciplinary research-monitoring/evaluation/institutional
   change)* 3-15 Energy Sector --Technical/policy assistance for sector
   reform that gets "prices right," in- 3-20 20 40 Reform cluding
   externalities, and advances public benefits --Assistance establishing
   evolutionary regulatory frameworks for gas grids Demonstration
   --Encourage development of a Demonstration Support Facility 3-26 40 80
   And Buy-down --Award production tax credits for demonstrations that
   meet criteria --Assist in establishing a Clean Energy Technology
   Obligation Finance --Encourage MDBs to increase financing for
   clean/efficient energy tech- 3-34 40 80 nology; support activities with
   trust funds for using US experts --Facilitate market-based finance of
   clean/efficient energy technologies, including creating a fund
   administered by OPIC --(Technical, Financial, and Feasibility Analysis
   Assistance for US Firms)* 3-38 ES A PORTFOLIO OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY RD3
   -14 Buildings --Technical/policy assistance to develop/adopt efficiency
   standards, rat- 4-11 20 40 ings, labeling of building equipment; assist
   testing programs, etc. --Testing/policy assistance to develop/apply
   building des
