http://www-supernova.lbl.gov/public/papers/7resultswww.ps

   Measurements of the Cosmological Parameters \Omega and \Lambda from the
   First 7 Supernovae at z * 0:35\Lambda S. Perlmutter,1;2 S. Gabi,1;3 G.
   Goldhaber,1;2 A. Goobar,1;2;4 D. E. Groom,1;2 I. M. Hook,2;10 A. G.
   Kim,1;2 M. Y. Kim,1 J. C. Lee,1 R. Pain,1;5 C. R. Pennypacker,1;3 I. A.
   Small,1;2 R. S. Ellis,6 R. G. McMahon,6 B. J. Boyle,7;8 P. S.
   Bunclark,7 D. Carter,7 M. J. Irwin,7 K. Glazebrook,8 H. J. M. Newberg,9
   A. V. Filippenko,2;10 T. Matheson,10 M. Dopita,11 and W. J. Couch12
   (The Supernova Cosmology Project) Accepted by The Astrophysical
   Journal. ABSTRACT We have developed a technique to systematically
   discover and study high-redshift supernovae that can be used to measure
   the cosmological parameters. We report here results based on the
   initial seven of ?28 supernovae discovered to date in the high-redshift
   supernova search of the Supernova Cosmology Project. We find an
   observational dispersion in peak magnitudes of oeMB = 0:27; this
   dispersion narrows to oeMB;corr = 0:19 after "correcting" the
   magnitudes using the light-curve "width-luminosity" relation found for
   nearby (z ^ 0:1) type Ia supernovae from the Cal'an/Tololo survey
   (Hamuy et al. 1996). Comparing lightcurve-width-corrected \Lambda Based
   in part on data from the Isaac Newton Group Telescopes, KPNO and CTIO
   Observatories run by AURA, Mount Stomlo & Siding Spring Observatory,
   Nordic Optical Telescope, and the W. M. Keck Observatory 1Institute for
   Nuclear and Particle Astrophysics, E. O. Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory, 50-232, Berkeley, California 94720; saul@lbl.gov 2Center
   for Particle Astrophysics, U.C. Berkeley, California 94720 3Space
   Sciences Laboratory, U.C. Berkeley, California 94720 4University of
   Stockholm 5LPNHE, CNRS-IN2P3 and Universit'es Paris VI & VII, France
   6Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge, United Kingdom 7Royal Greenwich
   Observatory, Cambridge, United Kingdom 8Anglo-Australian Observatory,
   Sydney, Australia 9Fermilab, Batavia, Illinois 60510 10Department of
   Astronomym, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-3411
   11Mt. Stromlo and Siding Springs Observatory, Australia 12University of
   New South Wales, Sydney, Australia - 2 - magnitudes as a function of
   redshift of our distant (z = 0:35-0.46) supernovae to those of nearby
   type Ia supernovae yields a global measurement of the mass density,
   \Omega M = 0:88 +0:69\Gamma 0:60 for a \Lambda = 0 cosmology. For a
   spatially flat universe (i.e., \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1), we find
   \Omega M = 0:94 +0:34\Gamma 0:28 or, equivalently, a measurement of the
   cosmological constant, \Omega \Lambda = 0:06 +0:28\Gamma 0:34 (!0.51 at
   the 95% confidence level). For the more general Friedmann-Lema^itre
   cosmologies with independent \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda , the results
   are presented as a confidence region on the \Omega M-\Omega \Lambda
   plane. This region does not correspond to a unique value of the
   deceleration parameter q0. We present analyses and checks for
   statistical and systematic errors, and also show that our results do
   not depend on the specifics of the width-luminosity correction. The
   results for \Omega \Lambda -versus-\Omega M are inconsistent with
   \Lambda -dominated, low density, flat cosmologies that have been
   proposed to reconcile the ages of globular cluster stars with higher
   Hubble constant values. Subject headings: cosmology:
   observations--distance scale--supernovae:general 1. Introduction The
   classical magnitude-redshift diagram for a distant standard candle
   remains perhaps the most direct approach for measuring the cosmological
   parameters that determine the fate of the cosmic expansion (Sandage
   1961, 1989). The first standard candles used in such studies were
   first-ranked cluster galaxies (Gunn & Oke 1975, Kristian, Sandage, &
   Westphal 1978) and the characteristic magnitude of the cluster galaxy
   luminosity function (Abell 1972). More recent measurements have used
   powerful radio galaxies at higher redshifts (Lilly & Longair 1984,
   Rawlings et al. 1993). Both the early programs (reviewed by Tammann
   1983) and the recent work have proven particularly important for the
   understanding of galactic evolution, but are correspondingly more
   difficult to interpret as measurements of cosmological parameters. The
   type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia), the brightest, most homogeneous class of
   supernovae, offer an attractive alternative candle, and have features
   that address this evolution problem. Each supernova explosion emits a
   rich stream of information describing the event, which we observe in
   the form of multi-color light curves and time-varying spectra.
   Supernovae at high redshifts, unlike galaxies, are events rather than
   objects, and their detailed temporal behavior can thus be studied on an
   individual basis for signs of evolution relative to nearby examples.
   The disadvantages of using supernovae are also obvious: they are rare,
   transient events that occur at unpredictable times, and are therefore
   unlikely candidates for the scheduled observations necessary on the
   largest telescopes. The single previously identified high-redshift (z =
   0:31) SN Ia, discovered by a 2-year Danish/ESO search in Chile, was
   found (at an unpredictable time) several weeks after it had already
   passed its peak luminosity (No/rgaard-Nielsen et al. 1989). - 3 - To
   make high-redshift supernovae a more practical "cosmological tool," the
   Supernova Cosmology Project has developed a technique over the past
   several years that allows the discovery of high-redshift SNe Ia in
   groups of ten or more at one time (Perlmutter et al. 1997a). These
   "batch" discoveries are scheduled for a particular night, or nights,
   thus also allowing follow-up spectroscopy and photometry on the
   large-aperture telescopes to be scheduled. Moreover, the supernova
   discoveries are generally selected to be on the rising part of the
   light curves, and can be chosen to occur just before new moon for
   optimal observing conditions at maximum light. Since our demonstration
   of this technique with the discovery of SN 1992bi at z = 0:458
   (Perlmutter et al. 1994, 1995a), we have now discovered more than 28
   SNe, most in two batches of ,10 (Perlmutter et al. 1995b, 1997b).
   Almost all are SNe Ia detected before maximum light in the redshift
   range z = 0:35-0.65. We have followed all of these supernovae with
   photometry and almost all with spectroscopy, usually at the Keck
   10-meter telescope. Other groups have now begun high-redshift searches;
   in particular, the search of Schmidt et al. (1997) has recently
   reported the discovery of high-redshift supernovae (Garnavich et al.
   1996a,b). We report here the measurements of the cosmological
   parameters from the initial seven supernovae discovered at redshifts z
   * 0:35. Since this is a first measurement using this technique, we
   present some detail to define terms, demonstrate cross-checks of the
   measurement, and outline the directions for future refinements. Section
   2 reviews the basic equations of the technique and defines useful
   variables that are independent of H0. Section 3 discusses the current
   understanding of type Ia supernovae as calibrated standard candles,
   based on low-redshift supernova studies. Section 4 describes the
   high-redshift supernova data set. Section 5 presents several different
   analysis approaches all yielding essentially the same results. Section
   6 lists checks for systematic errors, and shows that none of these
   sources of error will significantly change the current results. In
   conclusion (Section 7), we find that the alternative analyses and
   cross-checks for systematic error all provide confidence in this
   relatively simple measurement, a magnitude versus redshift, that gives
   an independent measurement of \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda comparable to
   or better than previous measurements and limits. Other current and
   forthcoming papers discuss further scientific results from this data
   set and provide catalogs of light curves and spectra: Pain et al.
   (1996) present first evidence that high-redshift SN Ia rates are
   comparable to low-redshift rates, Kim et al. (1996) discuss
   implications for the Hubble constant, and Goldhaber et al. (1996)
   present evidence for time dilation of events at high redshift. 2.
   Measurement of \Omega \Lambda versus \Omega M from m-z relation The
   classical magnitude-redshift test takes advantage of the sensitivity of
   the apparent magnitude-redshift relation to the cosmological model.
   Within Friedmann-Lema^itre cosmological models, the apparent bolometric
   magnitude m(z) of a standard candle (absolute bolometric magnitude M )
   at a given redshift is a function of both the cosmological-constant
   energy density - 4 - \Omega \Lambda j \Lambda =(3H20) and the mass
   density \Omega M: m(z) = M + 5 log dL(z; \Omega M; \Omega \Lambda ; H0)
   + 25j M + 5 log DL(z; \Omega M; \Omega \Lambda ) \Gamma 5 log H0 + 25 ;
   (1) where dL is the luminosity distance and DL j H0dL is the part of
   the luminosity distance expression14 that remains after multiplying out
   the dependence on the Hubble constant (expressed here in units of km
   s\Gamma 1 Mpc\Gamma 1). In the low redshift limit, Equation 1 reduces
   to the usual linear Hubble relation between m and log cz: m(z) = M + 5
   log cz \Gamma 5 log H0 + 25 = M + 5 log cz ; (2) where we have
   expressed the intercept of the Hubble line as the magnitude "zero
   point"M j M \Gamma 5 log H0 + 25. This quantity can be measured from
   the apparent magnitude and redshift of low-redshift examples of the
   standard candle, without knowing H0. Note that the dispersions of M and
   M are the same, oeM = oeM , since 5 log H0 is constant. (In this paper,
   we use script letters to represent variables that are independent of
   H0; the measurement of H0 requires extra information, the absolute
   distance to one of the standard candles, that we do not need for the
   measurement of the other cosmological parameters.) Thus, with a set of
   apparent magnitude and redshift measurements (m(z)) for high-redshift
   candles, and a similar set of low-redshift measurements to determine M,
   we can find the best fit values of \Omega \Lambda and \Omega M to solve
   the equation m(z) \Gamma M = 5 log DL(z; \Omega M; \Omega \Lambda ) :
   (4) (An equivalent procedure would be to fit the low- and high-redshift
   measurements simultaneously to Equation 4, leaving M free as a fitting
   parameter.) For candles at a given redshift, this fit yields a
   confidence region that appears as a diagonal strip on the plane of
   \Omega \Lambda versus \Omega M. Goobar & Perlmutter (1995) emphasized
   that the integrand for the luminosity distance DL depends on \Omega M
   and \Omega \Lambda with different functions of redshift,13 so that the
   slope of the confidence-region strip increases with redshift. This
   change in slope with redshift makes possible a future measurement 14We
   reproduce the equation for the luminosity distance, both for
   completeness and to correct a typographical error in Goobar &
   Perlmutter (1995): dL(z; \Omega M; \Omega \Lambda ; H0) = c(1 + z)
   H0pj^j S`pj ^j Z z 0 \Theta (1 + z0)2(1 + \Omega Mz0) \Gamma z0(2 +
   z0)\Omega \Lambda \Lambda \Gamma 1 2 dz0' ; (3) where, for \Omega M +
   \Omega \Lambda ? 1, S(x) is defined as sin(x) and ^ = 1 \Gamma \Omega M
   \Gamma \Omega \Lambda ; for \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda ! 1, S(x) =
   sinh(x) and ^ as above; and for \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1, S(x) = x
   and ^ = 1. The greater-than and less-than signs were interchanged in
   the definition of S(x) in the printed version of Goobar & Perlmutter,
   although all calculations were performed with the correct expression. -
   5 - of both \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda separately, using supernovae at
   a range of redshifts from z = 0:5 to 1.0; see Figure 1 of Goobar &
   Perlmutter. Traditionally, the magnitude-redshift relation for a
   standard candle has been interpreted as a measurement of the
   deceleration parameter, q0, primarily in the special case of a \Lambda
   = 0 cosmology where q0 and \Omega M are equivalent parameterizations of
   the model. However, in the most general case, q0 is a poor description
   of the measurement, since DL is a function of \Omega M and \Omega
   \Lambda independently, not simply the combination q0 j \Omega M=2
   \Gamma \Omega \Lambda . Thus the slope of the confidence-region strip
   is not parallel to contours of constant q0, except at redshifts z !! 1.
   We therefore recommend that for cosmologies with a non-zero
   cosmological constant, q0 not be used by itself to describe the
   measurements of the cosmological parameters from the magnitude-redshift
   relation at high redshifts, since it will lead to confusion in the
   literature. Steinhardt (1996) recently pointed out that cosmological
   models can be constructed with other forms of energy density besides
   \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda , such as the energy density due to
   topological defects. These energy density terms will not in general
   lead to the same functional dependence of luminosity distance on
   redshift. In this current paper, we do not address these cosmologies
   with additional (or different) energy density terms, since this first
   set of high-redshift supernovae span a relatively narrow range of
   redshifts. Although constraints on these cosmological models can be
   found from this limited data, our upcoming larger data sets with a
   larger redshift range will be much more appropriate for this purpose.
   3. Low-Redshift SNe Ia and Calibrated Magnitudes To measure the
   magnitude "zero point" M, it is important to use low-redshift
   supernovae that are far enough into the Hubble flow that their peculiar
   velocities are not an appreciable contributor to the redshift. It is
   also better if the sample of low-redshift supernovae were discovered in
   a systematic search, since this more closely approximates the
   high-redshift sample; our high-redshift search technique yields a more
   uniform (and measurable) magnitude limit than typical of most
   serendipitous supernova discoveries. The Cal'an/Tololo supernova search
   has discovered and followed a sample of 29 supernovae in the redshift
   range z = 0:01-0.10 (Hamuy et al. 1995, 1996). Of these, 18 were
   discovered within 5 days of maximum light or sooner. This subsample is
   the best to use for determining M, since there is little or no
   extrapolation in the measurements of the peak apparent magnitude or the
   light curve decline rate. The absolute B-magnitude distribution of
   these 18 Cal'an/Tololo supernovae exhibits a relatively narrow RMS
   dispersion, oeHamuyMB = 0:26 mag, with a mean magnitude zero point of
   MB = \Gamma 3:17 \Sigma 0:03 (Hamuy et al. 1996). Recent work on
   samples of SNe Ia at redshifts z ^ 0:1 has focussed attention on
   examples of differences within the SN Ia class, with observed
   deviations in luminosity at maximum light, color, light curve width,
   and spectrum (e.g. Filippenko et al. 1992a,b; Phillips et al. 1992; - 6
   - Leibundgut et al. 1993; Hamuy et al. 1994). It appears that these
   deviations are generally highly correlated, and--perhaps
   surprisingly--approximately define a single-parameter supernova family,
   presumably of different explosion strengths, that may be characterized
   by any of these correlated observables. It thus seems possible to
   predict, and hence correct, a deviation in luminosity using such
   indicators as light curve width (Phillips 1993; Hamuy et al. 1995;
   Riess, Press, & Kirshner 1995), U \Gamma B color (Branch, Nugent, &
   Fisher 1997), or spectral feature ratios (Nugent et al. 1996). 3.1.
   Light Curve Width Calibration The dispersion oeHamuyMB = 0:26 mag thus
   can be improved by "calibrating," using the correlation between the
   time scale of the supernova light curve and the peak luminosity of the
   supernova. The correlation is in the sense that broader, slower light
   curves are brighter while narrower, faster light curves are fainter.
   Phillips (1993) proposed a simple linear relationship between the
   decline rate \Delta m15, the magnitude change in the first 15 days past
   B maximum, and the peak B absolute magnitude. (In practice,
   low-redshift supernova light curves are not always observed during
   these 15 days, and therefore the photometry data are fit to a series of
   alternative template SN Ia light curves that span a range of decline
   rates; \Delta m15 is actually found by interpolating between the \Delta
   m15 values of the templates that fit best.) Hamuy et al. (1995, 1996)
   have now fitted a linear relation for all of the 18 Cal'an/Tololo
   supernovae that were discovered near maximum brightness, and for the
   observed range of \Delta m15 between 0.8 and 1.75 mag they obtain:
   MB;corr = (0:86 \Sigma 0:21)(\Delta m15 \Gamma 1:1) \Gamma (3:32 \Sigma
   0:05) : (5) This fit provides a prescription for "correcting"
   magnitudes to make them comparable to an arbitrary "standard" SN Ia
   light curve of width \Delta m15 = 1:1 mag: Add the correction term
   \Delta f1:1gcorr = (\Gamma 0:86 \Sigma 0:21)(\Delta m15 \Gamma 1:1) to
   the measured B magnitude, so that mB;corr = mB + \Delta f1:1gcorr . (We
   use the f1.1g superscript as a reminder that this correction term is
   defined for the arbitrary choice of light curve width, \Delta m15 = 1:1
   mag.) The residual magnitude dispersion after adding this correction to
   the Cal'an/Tololo supernova magnitudes drops from oeHamuyMB = 0:26 to
   oeHamuyMB;corr = 0:17 magnitudes. It is important to notice that the
   magnitude zero point, MB = \Gamma 3:17 \Sigma 0:03, calculated from the
   uncorrected magnitudes is not the same as Mf1:1gB;corr = \Gamma 3:32
   \Sigma 0:05, the intercept of Equation 5 at \Delta m15 = 1:1 mag; this
   simply reflects the fact that \Delta m15 = 1:1 is not the value for the
   average SN Ia. Riess, Press, & Kirshner (1995) have presented a
   different analysis of this light curve width-luminosity correlation
   that adds or subtracts different amounts of a "correction template" to
   a standard light-curve template (Leibundgut et al. 1991), creating a
   similar family of broader and narrower light curves. They use a simple
   linear relationship between the amount of this - 7 - correction
   template added and the absolute magnitude of the supernova, resulting
   in a similarly small dispersion in the B and V absolute magnitude after
   correction, oeRPK1MB;V ss 0:20 mag. More recent results of Riess,
   Press, & Kirshner (1996) show even smaller dispersion (oeRPK2MB;V ss
   0:12 mag) if multiple color light curves are used and extinction terms
   included in the fit. There remains some question concerning the details
   of the light curve width-luminosity relationship. It is not clear that
   a straight line is the "true" model relating \Delta m15 to MB, nor that
   a linear addition or subtraction of a Riess et al. correction template
   best characterizes the range of light curves in all bands. However, a
   simple inspection of the absolute magnitude as a function of \Delta m15
   from Hamuy et al. (1995, 1996) shows primarily a narrow MB dispersion
   (oeMB ss 0:2 mag) for most of the supernovae, those with light curve
   widths near that of the Leibundgut standard template (\Delta m15 = 1:1
   mag), as well as a few slightly brighter, broader supernovae and a tail
   of fainter, narrower supernovae. For the purposes of this paper, a
   simple linear fit appears to be sufficient, since the differences from
   a more elaborate fit are well within the photometry errors. To make our
   results robust with respect to this correction, we have analyzed the
   data (a) as measured, i.e., with no correction for the width-luminosity
   relation, adopting the uncorrected "zero point" of Hamuy et al., MB =
   \Gamma 3:17 \Sigma 0:03; and (b) with the correction and zero point of
   Equation 5 for the five supernovae that can be corrected with the Hamuy
   et al. calibration. We have also compared the "correction template"
   approach for the supernova for which photometry was obtained in bands
   suitable for this method, following the prescription and template light
   curves of Riess et al. (1996). 3.2. Stretch-Factor Parameterization For
   the analysis of \Delta m15 in this paper, we use a third
   parameterization of the light curve width/shape, a stretch factor s
   that linearly broadens or narrows the rest-frame timescale of an
   average (e.g. Leibundgut et al. 1991) template light curve. This
   stretch factor was proposed (Perlmutter 1997a) as a simple heuristic
   alternative to using a family of light curve templates, since it fits
   almost all supernova light curves with a dispersion of ! 0:05 mag at
   any given time in the light curve during the best-measured period from
   10 days before to 80 days after maximum light. (Physically, the stretch
   factor may reflect a temperature-dependent variation in opacities and
   hence the diffusion time-scale of the supernova atmosphere; see
   Khohklov, M"uller, & H"oflich 1993.) The stretch factor s can be
   translated to a corresponding \Delta m15 via the best-fit line \Delta
   m15 = (1:96 \Sigma 0:17)(s\Gamma 1 \Gamma 1) + 1:07 : (6) Using this
   relation, the best-fit s-factor for the template supernovae used by
   Hamuy et al. reproduces their \Delta m15 values within \Sigma 0.01 mag
   for the range 0:8 ^ \Delta m15 ^ 1:75 mag covered by the 18
   low-redshift supernovae. This provides a simple route to interpolating
   \Delta m15 for supernovae - 8 - that fall between these templates. In
   our analysis, we use Equation 6 together with the Hamuy et al.
   width-luminosity relation (Equation 5) to calculate the magnitude
   correction term, \Delta f1:1gcorr , from the stretch factor, s. Note
   that Equation 5 is based on the \Delta m15 interpolations of Hamuy et
   al., not on a direct measurement of s, and it will be recalculated once
   the Hamuy et al. light curves are published. However, for available
   light curves we get close agreement (within approximately 0.04 mag)
   between published \Delta m15 values interpolated between light curve
   templates by Hamuy et al. and the values interpolated using s and
   Equation 6. The uncertainty introduced by this translation is much
   smaller than the uncertainties in the measurement of s for the
   high-redshift supernovae and the uncertainties from approximating the
   width-luminosity relation as a straight line in Equation 5. 3.3. Color
   and Spectroscopic Feature Calibrators In addition to these
   parameterizations of the light-curve width or shape, several other
   observable features appear to be correlated with the absolute magnitude
   of the supernova. Vaughan et al. (1995) suggested that a color
   restriction B \Gamma V ! 0:25 mag eliminated the subluminous supernovae
   from a sample of low-redshift supernovae, and Vaughan, Branch, &
   Perlmutter (1996) confirmed this with a more recent sample of
   supernovae. Branch et al. (1996) presented a potentially stronger
   correlation with U \Gamma B color, and showed a very small dispersion
   in graphs of MB or \Delta m15 versus U \Gamma B. This result is
   consistent with the variation in UV flux for a series of spectra at
   maximum light, ranging from the broad, bright SN 1991T to the fast,
   faint SN 1991bg, presented in Figure 1 of Nugent et al. (1996). This
   figure also showed a correlation of absolute magnitude with ratios of
   spectral features on either side of the Ca II H and K absorption trough
   at 3800 *A and with ratios of Si II absorption features at 5800 *A and
   6150 *A. Such multiple correlations with absolute magnitude can provide
   alternative methods for calibrating the SN Ia candle. In the current
   analysis, we use them as cross-checks for the width-luminosity
   calibration when the data set is sufficiently complete. For future data
   sets they may provide better, or more accessible, primary methods of
   magnitude calibration. 3.4. Correlations with Host Galaxy Properties
   There have been some indications that the low luminosity members of the
   single-parameter SN Ia family are preferentially found in spheroidal
   galaxies (Hamuy et al. 1995) or that the more luminous SNe Ia prefer
   late spirals (Branch, Romanishin, & Baron 1996). If correct, this
   suggests that calibration within the SN Ia family, whether by light
   curve shape, color, or spectral features, is particularly important
   when comparing SNe Ia from a potentially evolving mix of host galaxy
   types. - 9 - 4. The High-Redshift Supernova Data Set 4.1. Discovery and
   Classification The seven supernovae discussed in this paper were
   discovered during 1992-94 in coordinated search programs at the Isaac
   Newton 2.5 m telescope (INT) on La Palma and the Kitt Peak 4 m
   telescope, with follow-up photometry and spectroscopy at multiple
   telescopes, including the William Herschel 4 m, the Kitt Peak 2.3 m,
   the Nordic Optical 2.5 m, the Siding Springs 2.3 m, and the Keck 10 m
   telescopes. The light-curve data were primarily obtained in the
   Johnson-Cousins R-band (Harris set; see Massey et al. 1996), with some
   additional data points in the Mould I, Mould R, and Harris B bands. SN
   1994G was observed over the peak of the light curve in the Mould I band
   (Harris set). All of the supernovae were followed for more than a year
   past maximum brightness so that the host galaxy light within the
   supernova seeing disk could be measured and subtracted from the
   supernova photometry measurements. Spectra were obtained for each of
   the supernova's host galaxies, and for the supernova itself in the case
   of SN 1994F, SN 1994G, and SN 1994an. The redshifts were measured from
   host-galaxy spectral features, and their uncertainties are all !,
   0:001. Table 1 lists the primary observational data obtained from the
   light-curve photometry and spectroscopy. We consider several types of
   observational evidence in classifying a supernova as a type Ia: (a)
   Ideally, a spectrum of the supernova is available and it matches the
   spectrum of a low-redshift type Ia supernova observed the appropriate
   number of rest-frame days past its light-curve maximum (e.g.,
   Filippenko 1991.) This will usually differentiate types Ib, Ic, and II
   from type Ia. For example, near maximum light SNe Ia usually develop
   strong, broad features, while the spectra of SNe II are more
   featureless. Distinctive features such as a trough at 6150*A (now
   believed to be due to blueshifted Si II *6355) uniquely specify a SN
   Ia. (b) The spectrum and morphology of the host galaxy can identify it
   as an elliptical or S0, indicating that the supernovae is a type Ia,
   since only SNe Ia are found in these galaxy types. (Of course, the
   converse does not hold, since SNe Ia are also found in late spirals, at
   an even higher rate than in ellipticals, locally.) We will here
   consider E or S0 host galaxies to indicate a SN Ia, with the caveat
   that it is possible, in principle, that someday a SN II may be found in
   these galaxy types. (c) The light curve shape can narrow the range of
   possible identifications by ruling out the plateau light curves of SNe
   IIP. (d) The statistics of the other classified supernovae discovered
   in the same search provide a probability that a random unclassified
   member of the sample is a SN Ia (given similar magnitudes above the
   detection threshold). Five of the seven supernovae discussed in this
   paper can be classified according to the criteria (a) and (b). Two are
   confirmed to be SNe Ia and three are consistent with SNe Ia: The
   spectrum of SN 1994an exhibits the major spectral features from 3700*A
   to 6500*A(SN rest frame wavelength) characteristic of SNe Ia ,3 days
   past maximum (rest frame time), including the Si II absorption near
   6150*A. SN 1994am was discovered in an elliptical galaxy, as identified
   by its morphology in a Hubble Space Telescope WFPC2 image (Figure 1),
   and by its spectrum, which matches that of - 10 - a typical present-day
   E or S0 galaxy. We take these two SNe, 1994an and 1994am, to be SNe Ia.
   The spectrum of the SN 1994al host galaxy is a similarly good match to
   an E or S0, but until the morphology can be confirmed we consider SN
   1994al to be consistent with a SN Ia. Spectra of both SN 1994F and SN
   1994G are more consistent with an SN Ia spectrum at the appropriate
   number of rest-frame days (tspect of Table 1) past the light curve
   maximum than any alternatives. The spectrum of SN 1994G was observed
   ,13 days past B maximum (rest frame) at the MMT by P. Challis, A.
   Riess, and R. Kirshner and ,15 days past maximum at the Keck telescope.
   The strengths of the Ca II H and K, Fe, and Mg II features closely
   match those of a SN Ia. The spectrum of SN 1994F was observed ,2 days
   before maximum (rest frame) by J. B. Oke, J. Cohen, and T. Bida during
   the commissioning of LRIS at the Keck telescope, and therefore was
   neither calibrated nor optimally sky-subtracted. The stronger SN I
   features (e.g. Ca II) do appear to be present nonetheless, so SN 1994F
   is unlikely to be a luminous SN II near maximum. The spectra for all of
   these supernovae will be reanalyzed and published once the late-time
   host-galaxy spectra are available, since host-galaxy features can
   confuse details of the supernova spectrum. To address the remaining two
   unclassified supernovae, we consider the classification statistics of
   our entire sample of ?28 supernovae discovered to date by the Supernova
   Cosmology Project. Eighteen supernovae have been observed
   spectroscopically, primarily at the Keck 10 m telescope. Of these, the
   16 supernovae at redshifts z * 0:35 discovered by our standard search
   technique are all consistent with a type Ia identification, while the
   two closer (z ! 0:35) supernovae are type II. This suggests that ?94%
   of the supernovae discovered by this search technique at redshifts z *
   0:35 are type Ia. Moreover, the shapes of the light curves we observe
   are inconsistent with the "plateau" light curves of SNe IIP, further
   reducing the probability of a non-type Ia. In this paper, we will
   therefore assume an SN Ia identification for the remaining two
   unclassified supernovae. 4.2. Photometry Reduction The two primary
   stages of the photometry reduction are the measurement of the supernova
   flux on each observed point of the light curve, and the fitting of
   these data to a SN Ia template to obtain peak magnitude and width
   (stretch factor). At high redshifts, a significant fraction (,50%) of
   the light from the supernova's host galaxy usually lies within the
   seeing-disk of the supernova, when observed from ground-based
   telescopes. We subtract this host galaxy light from each photometry
   point on the light curve. The amount of host galaxy light to be
   subtracted from a given night's observation is found from an aperture
   matched to the size and shape of the point-spread-function for that
   observation, and measured on the late-time images that are observed
   after the supernova has faded. The transmission ratio between the
   late-time image and each of the other images on the light curve is
   calculated from the objects neighboring the supernova's host galaxy
   that share a similar - 11 - (a) (b) (c) (d) SN 1994am Fig. 1.--
   Enlarged subimage showing the host galaxy of SN 1994am, and three
   neighboring galaxies before, during, and after the supernova explosion.
   (a) Isaac Newton 2.5-m Harris Rband observation on 19 December 1993,
   with 0.6 arcsec/pixel. (b) Kitt Peak 4-m Harris R-band observation on 4
   February 1994, with 0.47 arcsec/pixel, near maximum light of the
   supernova (indicated by arrow). (c) Cerro Tololo 4-m Harris R-band
   observation on 15 October 1995, with 0.47 arcsec/pixel. (d) Hubble
   Space Telescope (WFPC2) F814W I-band observation on 13 January 1995,
   with 0.1 arcsec/pixel. At this resolution, the host galaxy of SN 1994am
   can be identified as an elliptical, providing strong evidence that SN
   1994am is a type Ia supernova. - 12 - color (typically ?25 objects are
   used). This provides a ratio that is suited to the subtraction of the
   host galaxy light. Another ratio between the images is calculated for
   the supernova itself, taking into account the difference between the
   color of the host galaxy and the color of the supernova at its
   particular time in the light curve by integrating host-galaxy spectra
   and template supernova spectra over the filter and detector response
   functions. (These color corrections were not always necessary since the
   filter-and-detector response function often matched for different
   observations.) The magnitudes are thus all referred to the late-time
   image, for which we observe a series of Landolt (1992) standard fields
   and globular cluster tertiary standard fields (Christian et al. 1985;
   L. Davis, private communication). The instrumental color corrections
   account for the small differences between the instruments used, and
   between the instruments and the Landolt standard filter curves. This
   procedure is checked for each image by similarly subtracting the light
   in apertures on numerous (,50) neighboring galaxies of angular size,
   brightness, and color similar to the host galaxy. If these test
   apertures, which contain no supernova, show flat light curves then the
   subtraction is perfect. The RMS deviations from flat test-lightcurves
   provide an approximate measurement, oetest, of photometry uncertainties
   due to the matching procedure together with the expected RMS scatter
   due to photon noise. We generally reject images for which these
   matching-plus-photon-noise errors are more than 20% above the estimated
   photon-noise error alone (see below). (Planned HST light curve
   measurements will make these steps and checks practically unnecessary,
   since the HST point-spread-function is quite stable over time, and
   small enough that the host galaxy will not contribute substantial light
   to the SN measurement.) Photometry Point Error Budget. We track the
   sources of photometric uncertainty at each step of this analysis to
   construct an error budget for each photometry point of each supernova.
   The test-lightcurve error, oetest, then provides a check of almost all
   of these uncertainties combined. The dominant source of photometry
   error in this budget is the Poisson fluctuation of sky background
   light, within the photometry apertures, from the mean-neighborhood-sky
   level. A typical mean sky level on these images is Nsky = 10; 000
   photoelectrons (p.e.) per pixel, and it is measured to approximately 2%
   precision from the neighboring region on the image. Within a 25-pixel
   aperture, the sky light contributes a Poisson noise of (25Nsky)1=2 ss
   500 p.e. The light in the aperture from the supernova itself and its
   host galaxy is typically ,6,000 p.e., and contributes only ,77 p.e. of
   noise in quadrature, negligible compared to the sky background noise.
   Similarly, the noise contribution from the sky light in the subtracted
   late-time images after the supernova fades is also negligible, since
   the late time images are typically ?,9 times longer exposures then the
   other images. The supernova photometry points thus typically each have
   oephoton ss 11% photon-noise measurement error. Much smaller
   contributions to the error budget are added by the previously-mentioned
   calibration and correction steps: The magnitude calibrations have
   uncertainties between 1% and 4%, and uncertainties from instrumental
   color corrections are ^1%. Uncertainties introduced in the
   "flat-fielding" correction for pixel-to-pixel variation in quantum
   efficiency are less than 1=p10 of - 13 - the sky noise per pixel, since
   ?,10 images are used to calculate the "flat field" for quantum
   efficiency correction. This flat-fielding error leads to ,32 p.e.
   uncertainty in the supernova-and-host-galaxy light, which is an
   additional 5% uncertainty in quadrature above oephoton. For most images
   the quadrature sum of all of these error contributions agrees with the
   overall test dispersion, oetest. The exceptions mentioned above
   generally arise from point-spread-function variations over a given
   image in combination with extremely poor seeing, and such images are
   generally rejected unless oetest is within 20% of the expected
   quadrature sum of the error contributions. Since the target fields for
   the supernova search were chosen at high Galactic latitudes whenever
   possible, the uncertainties in our Galaxy extinction, AR (based on
   values of E(B \Gamma V ) from Burstein & Heiles 1982), are generally
   !1% on the photometry measurement. The one major exception is SN
   1994al, for which there is more substantial Galactic extinction, AR =
   0:23 mag, and hence we quote a more conservative extinction error of
   \Sigma 0.11 mag for this supernova. All of these sources of
   uncertainties are included in the error budget of Table 1. The
   photometry data points derived from this first stage of the reduction
   are shown in Figure 2. Although we observe *2 images for each night's
   data point to correct for cosmic rays and pixel flaws, these images
   have been combined in producing these plots (and in the preceding noise
   calculations, for direct comparison). Since the error bars depend on
   the uncertainty in the host-galaxy measurement, there is significant
   correlation between them, particularly for nights with similar seeing.
   Therefore, the usual point-to-point statistics for uncorrelated data do
   not apply for these plots. Further details concerning the calibration
   observations, color corrections, and data reduction, with mention of
   specific nights, telescopes, and supernovae, are given in Perlmutter et
   al. (1995), and the forthcoming data catalog paper. 4.3. Light Curve
   Fit At z ss 0:4, the light that leaves the supernova in the B band
   arrives at our telescopes approximately in the R band. The second stage
   of the photometry reduction, fitting the light curve, must therefore be
   performed using a K-corrected SN Ia light curve template: We use
   spectra of several low-redshift supernovae, well-observed over the
   course of their light curves, to calculate a table of cross-filter K
   corrections, KBR(t), as a function of light curve time. These
   corrections account for the mismatch between the redshifted B band and
   the R band (including the stretch of the transmission-function width),
   as well as for the difference in the defined zero points of the two
   magnitude systems. For each high-redshift supernova, we can then
   construct a predicted R-band template light curve as would be observed
   for the redshift, T observeR , based on the B-band "standard" template
   (i.e., with \Delta m15 = 1:1 mag) as actually observed in the SN rest
   frame: T observeR (t0) = T restframeB (t) + KBR(t); (7) - 14 - -0.2 0.0
   0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 No rm aliz ed R fl ux
   SN1992biz = 0.458 25 24 23 22 Ob ser ved R ma gni tud e 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6
   0.8 1.0 No rm aliz ed R fl ux SN1994Hz = 0.374 25 24 23 22 21 Ob ser
   ved R ma gni tud e No rm aliz ed R fl ux SN1994alz = 0.420 26 25 24 23
   22 Ob ser ved R ma gni tud e -50 0 50 100 150 200 250 300Observed days
   from peak Observed days from peak 500 700 900 -50 0 50 100 150 Fig.
   2.-- (Continued on next page.) R-band light curve photometry points for
   the first seven highredshift supernovae discovered by the Supernova
   Cosmology Project, and best-fit template SN Ia light curves. The left
   panels show the relative flux as function of observed time (not
   supernovarest-frame time). The right panels show observed R-band
   magnitude versus observed time. Note that there is significant
   correlation between the error bars shown, particularly for observations
   with similar seeing, since the error bars depend on the uncertainty in
   the host-galaxy measurement that have been subtracted from these
   measurements (see text). An I-band light curve is also shown for SN
   1994G; other photometry points in I and B for the seven supernovae are
   not shown on this plot. The rising slope (in mag/day) of the template
   light curve before rest-frame day \Gamma 10 (indicated by the grey part
   of the curves) is not well-determined, since few low-redshift
   supernovae are discovered this soon before maximum light. A range of
   possible rise times was therefore explored (see text). - 15 - 0.0 0.2
   0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 No rm aliz ed R fl ux SN1994Fz = 0.354 Ob ser ved R
   ma gni tud e 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 No rm aliz ed R fl ux SN1994amz =
   0.372 25 24 23 22 26 25 24 23 22 Ob ser ved R ma gni tud e 0.0 0.2 0.4
   0.6 0.8 1.0 No rm aliz ed flux SN1994Gz = 0.425 R band I band 25 24 23
   22 Ob ser ved ma gni tud e -0.2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 No rm aliz ed R
   fl ux SN1994anz = 0.378 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 500 700 900 -50 0
   50 100 15026 25 24 23 22 Ob ser ved R ma gni tud e Observed days from
   peak Observed days from peak Fig. 2.-- continued. - 16 - where the
   observed time dependence, t0 j t(1 + z), accounts for the time dilation
   of events at redshift z. The calculations of KBR(t) are described and
   tabulated, in Kim, Goobar, & Perlmutter (1996), with an error analysis
   that yields uncertainties of !0.04 mag for redshifts z ! 0:6. Table 1
   lists the values of KBR at maximum light for the redshifts of the seven
   supernovae. For the exceptional case of SN 1994al, with significant
   E(B\Gamma V ) from our own Galaxy, we also calculate the extinction,
   AR, as a function of supernova-rest-frame time, again using a series of
   redshifted supernova spectra multiplied by a reddening curve for an
   E(B\Gamma V )B&H value given by Burstein & Heiles (1982). For this
   particular supernova's redshift, AR = 0:23 \Sigma 0:11, with variations
   of 0.01 magnitude for the dates observed on the light curve. For the
   redshifts of all seven supernovae, we find essentially the same ratio
   RR = AR=E(B\Gamma V )B&H = 2:58 \Sigma 0:01, at maximum light. The
   photometry data points for each supernova are fit to the as-observed
   R-band template,T observeR , with free parameters for the
   stretch-factor, s, the R magnitude at peak, mR, the date of peak,
   tpeak, and the additive constant flux, gresid, that accounts for the
   residual host-galaxy light due to Poisson error in the late-time image:
   f (t; mR; s; tpeak; gresid) = 10\Gamma 0:4[mR\Gamma m 0 R+T observeR
   (t0s\Gamma tpeak)] + gresid ; (8) where m0R is the calibration
   zero-point for the R observations and T observeR (t) is normalized to
   zero at t = 0. (For one of the supernovae with sufficient I band data,
   SN 1994G, the fitting function f also includes the redshifted,
   K-corrected V -band template, and an additional parameter for the
   R\Gamma I color at maximum is fit.) We fit to flux measurements, rather
   than magnitudes, because the error bars are symmetric in flux, and
   because the data points have the late-time galaxy light subtracted out
   and hence can be negative. In this fit, particular care is taken in
   constructing the covariance matrix (see, e.g., Barnett et al. 1996) to
   account for the correlated photometry error due to the fact that the
   same late-time images of the host galaxy are used for all points on a
   light curve. Light Curve Error Budget. We compute uncertainties for mR
   and s using both a Monte Carlo study and a mapping of the O/2 function;
   both methods yield similar results. Table 1 lists the best-fit values
   and uncertainties for mR and s. Usually, many data points contribute to
   the template fit, so the uncertainty in the peak, mR, is less than the
   typical ,11% photometry uncertainty in each individual point. However,
   our Monte Carlo studies show that it is usually very important that
   high quality late-time and pre-maximum data points be available to
   constrain both s and mR. We have explored the consequences of adding or
   subtracting observations on the light curves, although the error bars
   reflect the actual light curve sampling observed for a given supernova.
   The rising slope of the template light curve before rest-frame day
   \Gamma 10 (indicated by the grey part of the curves in Figure 2) is not
   well-determined, since few low-redshift supernovae are discovered this
   soon before maximum light. A range of possible rise times was therefore
   also - 17 - explored. Only two of the supernovae show any sensitivity
   to the choice of rise time. The effect is well within the error bars of
   the stretch factor, and negligible for the other parameters of the fit.
   For the analyses of this paper, we translate these observed R
   magnitudes back to the "effective" B magnitudes, mB = mR \Gamma AR
   \Gamma KBR, where all the quantities (see Table 1) are for the light
   curve B-band peak (SN rest frame), and we have corrected for Galactic
   extinction, AR, at this stage. In the following section, we directly
   compare these "effective" B magnitudes with the B magnitudes of the
   low-redshift supernovae using the equations of Section 2, substituting
   the K-corrected effective B magnitudes, mB, and the B-band zero point,
   MB, for the bolometric magnitudes, m and M. 5. Results for the
   High-Redshift Supernovae 5.1. Dispersion and Width-Brightness Relation
   Before using a width-luminosity correction, it is important to test
   that it applies at high redshifts, and that the magnitude dispersions
   with and without this correction are consistent with those of the
   low-redshift supernovae. We study the peak-magnitude dispersion of the
   seven high-redshift supernovae by calculating their absolute magnitudes
   for an arbitrary choice of cosmology. This allows the relative
   magnitudes of the supernovae at somewhat different redshifts (z =
   0:35-0.46) to be compared. The slight dependence on the choice of
   cosmology is negligible for this purpose, for a wide range of \Omega M
   and \Omega \Lambda . Choosing \Omega M = 1 and \Omega \Lambda = 0, the
   RMS dispersion about the mean absolute magnitude for the seven
   supernovae is oeMB = 0:27. (We find the same RMS dispersion for the
   best-fit cosmology discussed below in Section 5.3.) Figure 3 shows the
   difference between the measured and the "theoretical" (Equation 4 for
   \Omega M = 1, \Omega \Lambda = 0 and M = Mf1:1gB;corr) uncorrected
   effective B magnitudes, mB \Gamma mtheoryB , as a function of the
   best-fit stretch factor s or, equivalently, \Delta m15. The zero-point
   intercept, Mf1:1gB;corr, from Equation 5 was used in the calculation of
   mtheoryB , so that the data points could be compared to the Equation 5
   width-luminosity relation found for the nearby sample of Hamuy et al.
   (the solid line of Figure 3). A different choice of (\Omega M, \Omega
   \Lambda ) or of the magnitude zero-point M would move the line in the
   vertical direction relative to the points, so the comparison should be
   made with the shape of the relation, not the exact fit. The
   width-luminosity relation seen for nearby supernovae appears
   qualitatively to hold for the high-redshift supernovae. To make this
   result quantitative, we use the prescription of Equation 5 to "correct"
   the magnitudes to that of a supernova with \Delta m15 = 1:1 mag, by
   adding magnitude corrections, \Delta f1:1gcorr = \Gamma 0:86(\Delta m15
   \Gamma 1:1), where we derive \Delta m15 from s using Equation 6. Note
   that the resulting corrected magnitude, mB;corr = mB + \Delta f1:1gcorr
   , listed in Table 1, has an uncertainty that is not necessarily the
   quadratic sum of the uncertainties for mB and \Delta f1:1gcorr ,
   because the best-fit values for s and mR (and hence mB) are correlated
   in the light-curve template fit. - 18 - 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4
   1.6Stretch factor, s0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 - 0.2 - 0.4 - 0.6 mB - m Bth
   eor y (\Omega M= 1, \Omega \Lambda = 0) 0.40.60.81.01.21.62.03.04.0
   \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Delta m15 (mag) Fig. 3.--
   The difference between the measured and "theoretical" (Equation 4 for
   \Omega M = 1, \Omega \Lambda = 0, and M = Mf1:1gB;corr) B magnitudes
   (uncorrected for the width-luminosity relation) versus the bestfit
   stretch factor, s, for the high-redshift supernovae. The stretch factor
   is fit in the supernova rest frame, i.e., after correcting for the
   cosmological time dilation calculated from the host-galaxy redshift
   (see Equations 7 and 8). If different values of (\Omega M, \Omega
   \Lambda ) had been chosen the labels would change, but the data points
   would not vary significantly within their error bars, since the range
   of redshifts is not large for these supernovae. The upper axis gives
   the equivalent values of \Delta m15 = 1:96(s\Gamma 1 \Gamma 1) + 1:07
   (Eq. 6). The solid line shows the width-luminosity relation (Eq. 5)
   found by Hamuy et al. (1995, 1996) for an independent set of 18 nearby
   (z ^ 0:1) SNe Ia, for which 0:8 !, \Delta m15 !, 1:75 mag. This range
   of light-curve widths is indicated by the shaded region. The curve and
   data points outside of this range are plotted in a different shade to
   emphasize that the relation is only established within this range. A
   different choice of (\Omega M, \Omega \Lambda ) or of the magnitude
   zero-point M would move the line in the vertical direction relative to
   the points. - 19 - Two of the high-redshift supernovae (shown with
   different-shaded symbols in Figure 3 and subsequent figures) have
   values of \Delta m15 that are outside of the range of values studied in
   the low-redshift supernova data set of Hamuy et al. The
   width-luminosity correction for these supernovae is therefore less
   reliable than for the other five supernovae, since it depends on an
   extrapolation. It is also possible that the true values of \Delta m15
   for the two supernovae fall within this range, given the fit error
   bars. (One of these, SN 1992bi at z = 0:458, has very large error bars
   because its light curve has larger photometric uncertainties and the
   lightcurve sampling was not optimal to constrain the stretch factor s.)
   In Table 1, the corrections, \Delta f1:1gcorr , and corrected
   magnitudes, mB;corr, for these supernovae are therefore listed in
   brackets, and we also give the corrected magnitudes, mextremeB;corr ,
   obtained using only the most extreme \Delta f1:1gcorr corrections found
   for low-redshift supernovae. In the following analysis we calculate all
   results using just the other five supernovae that are within the Hamuy
   et al. range of \Delta m15. As a cross-check, we then provide the
   result using all seven supernovae, but without width-luminosity
   correction. The peak-magnitude RMS dispersion for the five
   high-redshift supernovae that are within the \Delta m15 range improves
   from oeMB = 0:25 mag before applying the width-luminosity correction to
   oeMB;corr = 0:19 mag after applying the correction. These values agree
   with those for the 18 low-redshift Cal'an/Tololo supernovae, oeHamuyMB
   = 0:26 and oeHamuyMB;corr = 0:17 mag, suggesting that the supernovae at
   high-redshift are drawn from a similar population, with a similar
   width-luminosity correlation. Note that although the slope of the
   width-luminosity relation, Equation 5, stays the same, it is possible
   that the intercept could change at high redshift, but this would be a
   remarkable conspiracy of physical effects, since the time scale of the
   event appears naturally correlated with the strength and temperature of
   the explosion (see Nugent et al. 1996). 5.2. Color and Spectral
   Indicators of Intrinsic Brightness With the supplementary color
   information in the I and B bands, and the spectral information for
   three of the supernovae, we can also begin to test the other indicators
   of intrinsic brightness within the SN Ia family. The broadest, most
   luminous supernova of our five-supernova subsample, SN 1994H, is bluer
   than B\Gamma R = 0:7 at the 95% confidence level 2 \Sigma 2 days before
   maximum light (this is only a limit because of possible clouds on the
   night of the B calibration). For comparison, Nugent (1996, private
   communication) has estimated observed B\Gamma R colors within ,4 days
   of maximum light as a function of redshift using spectra for a range of
   SN Ia sub-types, from the broad, superluminous SN 1991T to the narrow,
   subluminous SN 1991bg. SN 1994H is only slightly bluer than the B\Gamma
   R ss 1:0 \Sigma 0:15 color of SN 1991T at z = 0:374 (where the error
   represents the range of possible host-galaxy reddening). However, SN
   1994H does not agree with the redder colors (at z = 0:374) of SN 1981B
   (B\Gamma R ss 1:7 mag) and SN 1991bg (B\Gamma R ss 2:6 mag). SN1991T
   has a broad light curve width of \Delta m15 = 0:94 \Sigma 0:07, which
   agrees within error with the light curve width of SN 1994H, \Delta m15
   = 0:91 \Sigma 0:09, whereas SN 1981B and SN 1991bg both have "normal"
   or narrower light curve widths, \Delta m15 = 1:10 \Sigma 0:07 and
   \Delta m15 = 1:93 \Sigma 0:10 mag. - 20 - The multi-band version of the
   "correction template" analysis (Riess et al. 1996) is designed to fit
   simultaneously for the host galaxy extinction (discussed later) and the
   intrinsic brightness of the supernova. The rest frame V light curve
   (approximately redshifted into our observed I) is the strongest
   indicator of the SN Ia family parameterization when using this
   approach. We thus use this technique to analyze SN1994G, with its well
   sampled I light curve in addition to R data. We find that the supernova
   is best fit by a correction template that indicates that it is
   intrinsically overluminous by 0:06 \Sigma 0:38 magnitudes, compared to
   a Leibundgut-template supernova. This is consistent with the 0:05
   \Sigma 0:22 overluminosity found using the width-luminosity correlation
   and the best-fit stretch factor. (The "correction template" fit gives
   larger error bars than a simple stretch-factor fit because the
   correction templates have significant uncertainties, with day-to-day
   correlations that are, unfortunately, not tabulated. Currently, the
   fits to B-band correction templates have even larger uncertainties than
   V -band, possibly due to a poor fit of the linear correction model to
   the low-redshift data. This approach is therefore not useful for the
   other six high-redshift supernovae of this first set, since these large
   correction-template uncertainties propagate into ?1 magnitude
   uncertainties in the fits to the observed R band data.) Both
   intrinsically fainter supernovae and supernovae with host galaxy
   extinction can appear redder in R\Gamma I (corresponding to
   approximately B\Gamma V in the supernova rest frame). For the several
   supernova for which we have scattered I-band photometry, we thus can
   use it to estimate extinction only after the supernova sub-type has
   been determined using the stretch factor. SN 1994G fit closely to the s
   = 1 template. An s = 1 supernova at z = 0:420 will have an expected
   observed color R \Gamma I = 0:16 \Sigma 0:05 mag at observed-R maximum
   light. For SN 1994G, we observed R \Gamma I = \Gamma 0:12 \Sigma 0:17
   mag. This gives E(R\Gamma I)observed ss E(B \Gamma V )restframe =
   \Gamma 0:28 \Sigma 0:18 mag, or AV ! 0:01 mag at the 95% confidence
   level. The Riess et al. "correction template" analysis of SN 1994G also
   yields a bound on extinction of AV ! 0:01 mag (90% confidence). The
   more recent high-redshift supernovae studied by the Supernovae
   Cosmology Project have more complete color and spectral data, and so
   should soon provide further tests of these additional SN Ia luminosity
   indicators. In addition, the spectrum of SN 1994an covers both
   wavelength regions in which the Nugent et al. (1996) line ratios
   correlate well with supernova magnitudes. This analysis awaits the
   availability of the spectrum of the host galaxy without the supernova
   light, so that we can subtract the galaxy-spectrum "contamination" from
   the supernova spectrum. Further late-time B-band images of SN 1994an
   will also allow B\Gamma R color cross-checks using B images that were
   observed four days after maximum. 5.3. Magnitude-Redshift Relation and
   the Cosmological Parameters Figure 4(a) shows the Hubble diagram, mB
   versus log cz, for the seven high-redshift supernovae, along with
   low-redshift supernovae of Hamuy et al. (1995) for visual comparison.
   The - 21 - solid curves are plots of mtheoryB , i.e., Equation 4 with M
   = MB for three \Lambda = 0 cosmologies, (\Omega M, \Omega \Lambda ) =
   (0, 0), (1, 0), and (2, 0); the dotted curves, which are practically
   indistinguishable from the solid curves, are for three flat
   cosmologies, (\Omega M, \Omega \Lambda ) = (0.5, 0.5), (1, 0), and
   (1.5, \Gamma 0.5). These curves show that the redshift range of the
   present supernova sample begins to distinguish the values of the
   cosmological parameters. Figure 4(b) shows the same magnitude-redshift
   relation for the data after adding the width-luminosity correction
   term, \Delta f1:1gcorr ; the curves of mtheoryB in (b) are calculated
   for M = Mf1:1gB;corr. Figure 5 shows the 68% (1oe), 90%, and 95% (2oe)
   confidence regions on the \Omega M-\Omega \Lambda plane for the fit of
   Equation 4 to the high-redshift supernova magnitudes, mB;corr, after
   width-luminosity correction, using M = Mf1:1gB;corr. In this fit, the
   magnitude dispersion, oeHamuyMB;corr = 0:17, is added in quadrature to
   the error bars of mB;corr to account for the residual intrinsic
   dispersion, after width-correction, of our model (low-redshift)
   standard candles. The two special cases represented by the solid lines
   of Figure 5 yield significant measurements: We again fit Equation 4 to
   the high-redshift supernova magnitudes, mB;corr, but this time with the
   fit constrained first to a \Lambda = 0 cosmology (the horizontal line
   of Figure 5), and then to a flat universe (the diagonal line of Figure
   5, with \Omega total j \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1). In the case of a
   \Lambda = 0 cosmology, we find the mass density of the universe to be
   \Omega M = 0:88 +0:69\Gamma 0:60. For a flat universe (the diagonal
   line of Figure 5, with \Omega total j \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1),
   we find the cosmological constant to be \Omega \Lambda = 0:06
   +0:28\Gamma 0:34, consistent with no cosmological constant. For
   comparison with other results in the literature, we can also express
   this fit as a 95% confidence level upper limit of \Omega \Lambda !
   0:51. Finally, this fit can be described by the value of the mass
   density, \Omega M = 1 \Gamma \Omega \Lambda = 0:94 +0:34\Gamma 0:28.
   (For brevity, we will henceforth only quote the \Omega \Lambda fit
   results for the flat-universe case, since either \Omega \Lambda or
   \Omega M can be used to parameterize the flat-universe fit.) The
   goodness-of-fit is quantified by Q(O/2j*), the probability of obtaining
   the best-fit O/2 or higher for * = NSNe \Gamma 1 degrees of freedom
   (following the notation of Press et al. 1986, p. 165). For both the
   \Lambda = 0 and flat universe cases, Q(O/2j*) = 0:75. The error bars on
   the measurement of \Omega \Lambda or \Omega M for a flat universe are
   about two times smaller than the error bars on \Omega M for a \Lambda =
   0 universe. This can be seen graphically in Figure 5, in which the
   confidence region strip makes a shallow angle with respect to the
   \Omega \Lambda = 0 line but crosses the \Omega total = 1 line at a
   sharper angle. Note that these error bars in the constrained
   one-dimensional fits for \Lambda = 0 or \Omega total = 1 are smaller
   than the intersection of the constraint lines of Figure 5 and the 68%
   contour band. This is because a different range of \Delta O/2 j O/2
   \Gamma O/2min corresponds to 68% confidence for one free parameter, * =
   1 degree of freedom, as opposed to two free parameters, * = 2 (see
   Press et al. 1986, pp. 532-7). We also analyzed the data for the same
   five supernovae "as measured," that is, without correcting for the
   width-luminosity relation, and taking the uncorrected zero point,M B =
   \Gamma 3:17 \Sigma 0:03 of Hamuy et al. (1996). We find essentially the
   same results: \Omega M = 0:93 +0:69\Gamma 0:60 for \Lambda = 0 and
   \Omega \Lambda = 0:03 +0:29\Gamma 0:34 for a flat \Omega total = 1
   universe. The measurement uncertainty for - 22 - 14 16 18 20 22 24
   Hamuy et al.fl(1995) data (b) Corrected forfl light curve width (a)
   Uncorrected forfl light curve width log(cz) Present dataflfrom Table 1
   22.0 22.5 21.55.02 5.04 5.06 5.08 5.10 5.12 5.14 22.0 22.5 21.55.02
   5.04 5.06 5.08 5.10 5.12 5.14 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.514 16 18 20 22 0.02
   0.05 0.1 0.2 0.5 1.0z mB ,cor r mB Fig. 4.-- Hubble diagrams for the
   first seven high-redshift supernovae, (a) uncorrected mB, with
   low-redshift supernovae of Hamuy et al. (1995) for visual comparison;
   (b) mB;corr after "correction" for width-luminosity relation. The
   square points are not used in the analysis, because they are corrected
   based on an extrapolation outside the range of light curve widths of
   low-redshift supernovae (see text and Table 1). Insets show the
   high-redshift supernovae on magnified scales. The solid curves in (a)
   and (b) are theoretical mB for (\Omega M, \Omega \Lambda ) = (0, 0) on
   top, (1, 0) in middle, and (2, 0) on bottom. The dotted curves, which
   are practically indistinguishable from the solid curves, are for the
   flat universe case, with (\Omega M, \Omega \Lambda ) = (0.5, 0.5) on
   top, (1, 0) in middle, and (1.5, \Gamma 0.5) on bottom. The inner error
   bars on the data points show the photometry measurement uncertainty,
   while the outer error bars add the intrinsic dispersions found for
   low-redshift supernovae, oeHamuyMB for (a) and oeHamuyMB;corr for (b),
   for comparison to the theoretical curves. Note that the zero-point
   magnitude used for (b), Mf1:1gB;corr, and hence the effective mB scale,
   is shifted slightly from the uncorrected MB used for the curves of (a).
   - 23 - \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma
   \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma \Gamma 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.00.0-3 -2 -1 0
   1 2 3 \Omega M \Omega \Lambda Age < 9.6 GyrAge < 9.6 Gyr No Big BangNo
   Big Bang \Lambda = 0\Lambda = 0 \Omega total = 1\Omega total = 1 68%
   68% 90% 95% 95% Fig. 5.-- Contour plot of the 68% (1oe), 90%, and 95%
   (2oe) confidence regions in the \Omega \Lambda versus \Omega M plane,
   for the first seven high-redshift supernovae. The solid lines show the
   two special cases of a \Lambda = 0 cosmology and a flat (\Omega total j
   \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1) cosmology. (Note that the constrained
   one-dimensional confidence intervals for \Lambda = 0 or \Omega total =
   1 are smaller than the intersection of these lines with the
   two-dimensional contours, as discussed in the text.) The two labeled
   corners of the plot are ruled out because they imply: (upper left
   corner) a "bouncing" universe with no big bang (see Carroll et al.
   1992), or (lower right corner) a universe younger than the oldest heavy
   elements, t0 ! 9:6 Gyr (Schramm 1990), for any value of H0 * 50 km
   s\Gamma 1 Mpc\Gamma 1. - 24 - the analysis using light-curve-width
   correction is not significantly better than this one, without
   correction, because for this particular data set the smaller calibrated
   dispersion, oeMB;corr as opposed to oeMB , is offset by the
   uncertainties in the measurements of the light curve widths. The
   goodness of fit, however, for the uncorrected magnitudes is lower,
   Q(O/2j*) = 0:34, for both the \Lambda = 0 and flat universe. This
   indicates that the width-luminosity relation provides a better model,
   although this was already seen in the improved RMS dispersion of the
   corrected magnitudes. Table 2 summarizes the results. As a cross-check,
   we also analyzed the results for all seven supernovae, not
   "width-corrected," including the two that had measured widths outside
   the range of the low-redshift width correction. We find \Omega M = 0:70
   +0:57\Gamma 0:49 for \Lambda = 0 and \Omega \Lambda = 0:15 +0:24\Gamma
   0:28 for \Omega total = 1. We emphasized in Section 2 that the 1oe
   confidence region of Figure 5 is not parallel to the contours of
   constant q0. For comparison, the q0 contours are drawn (dashed lines)
   in Figure 6. The closest q0 contour varies from ,0.5 to ,1 in the
   region with \Omega M ^ 1. Any single value of q0 would thus be only a
   rough approximation to the true confidence interval dependent on \Omega
   M and \Omega \Lambda shown in Figure 6. 6. Checks for Sources of
   Systematic Error Since this is a first measurement of cosmological
   parameters using SNe Ia, we list here some of the more important
   concerns, together with the checks and tests that would address them.
   By considering each of the separate subsamples of SNe that avoid a
   particular source of bias, we can show that no one source of systematic
   error alone can be responsible for the measured values of \Omega M and
   \Omega \Lambda . We cannot, however, exclude a conspiracy of biases
   each moving an individual supernova's measured values into agreement
   with this result. Fortunately, this sample of seven supernovae is only
   the beginning of a much larger data set of SNe Ia at high redshifts,
   with more complete multiband light curves and spectral coverage.
   Width-Brightness Correction. For the present data set, the measurements
   of \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda are the same whether or not we apply the
   light-curve width-luminosity correction, and so do not depend upon our
   confidence in this empirical calibration. This is due to the similar
   distribution of light curve widths for the high-redshift supernovae and
   the low-redshift supernovae used for calibration. For future data sets,
   it is possible that the width distribution will differ, for example if
   we were to find more supernovae in clusters of ellipticals and confirm
   the tendency to find narrower/fainter supernovae in ellipticals. (Note
   that SN 1994am, in an elliptical host, does in fact have a somewhat
   narrow light curve, with s = 0:84.) For such a data set the result
   would depend on the validity of the width-luminosity correction. Such a
   correction dependence could be checked by restricting the analysis to
   the supernovae that pass the Vaughan et al. (1995) B\Gamma V color test
   for "normals," and then applying no width-luminosity correction. - 25 -
   12.9 * (70/H0) Gyr 10.7 * (70/H0) Gyr 8.6 * ( 70/H0) Gyr 8.6 * ( 70/H0)
   Gyr 7 * (70 /H0) Gy r 17.1 * (70/H0 ) Gyr 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.00.0-3
   -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \Omega M \Omega \Lambda Fig. 6.-- Contour plot of the 1oe
   (68%) confidence region in the \Omega \Lambda versus \Omega M plane,
   for the first seven high-redshift supernovae. The solid lines show
   contours for the age of the universe (in Gyr), normalized to H0 = 70 in
   units of km s\Gamma 1 Mpc\Gamma 1. The dashed lines are the contours of
   constant deceleration parameter q0 = 0.0 (top), 0.5 (middle), 1.0
   (bottom). - 26 - Extinction. While the extinction due to our own Galaxy
   has been incorporated in this analysis, we do not know the SN
   host-galaxy extinctions. Note that correcting for any neglected
   extinction for the high-redshift supernovae would tend to brighten our
   estimated SN effective magnitudes and hence move the best fit of
   Equation 4 towards even higher \Omega M and lower \Omega \Lambda than
   the current results. We can check that the extinction is not strongly
   affecting the results by considering two supernovae for which there is
   evidence against significant extinction. SN 1994am is in an elliptical
   galaxy, and for SN 1994G there is the previously-mentioned R\Gamma I
   color that provides evidence against significant reddening. The best
   fit values for this two-SN subset are consistent with that of the full
   set of SNe: \Omega M = 1:31 +1:23\Gamma 0:98 for \Lambda = 0 and \Omega
   \Lambda = \Gamma 0:15 +0:47\Gamma 0:61 for \Omega total = 1. If there
   were uncorrected host-galaxy extinction for the low-redshift supernovae
   used to find the magnitude zero point M, this would lead to an opposite
   bias. The 18 Cal'an/Tololo supernovae, however, all have unreddened
   colors (B \Gamma V ! 0:2 mag). For the range of widths of these
   supernovae (0:8 !, \Delta m15 !, 1:75 mag), the range of intrinsic
   color at maximum light should be \Gamma 0:05 !, B \Gamma V !, 0:5 mag,
   so the color excess is limited to E(B \Gamma V ) ! 0:25 mag. A stronger
   constraint can be stated for the seven of these 18 Cal'an/Tololo
   supernovae that were included in a sample studied by Riess et al.
   (1996), who used the multicolor correction-template method to estimate
   extinction. They found that only one of these seven supernovae showed
   any significant extinction. (For that one supernova, SN 1992P, they
   found AV = 0:11 mag.) It is thus unlikely that host-galaxy extinction
   of the Cal'an/Tololo supernovae is strongly biasing our results,
   although it will be useful to test the remaining supernovae of this set
   for evidence of extinction, using the multicolor correction-template
   method. (It should be noted that the method of Riess et al. estimates
   total extinction values for several supernovae that are significantly
   less than the Galactic extinction estimated by Burstein & Heiles 1982,
   hence some caution is still necessary in interpreting these results.) A
   general argument can be made even without these color measurements: the
   intrinsic magnitude dispersions, oeHamuyMB;corr = 0:17 or our value
   oeMB;corr = 0:19 mag, provide an upper bound on the typical extinction
   present in either the low redshift or the high redshift supernova
   samples, since a broad range of host-galaxy extinction (which would
   have a larger mean extinction) would inflate these dispersions. We use
   Monte Carlo studies to bound the amount of bias due to a distribution
   of extinction that would inflate a hypothetical intrinsic dispersion of
   oehypothesisMB = 0:13 to the values actually measured, oeHamuyMB;corr =
   0:17 \Sigma 0:04 and oeMB;corr = 0:19 \Sigma 0:08 mag. We find, at the
   90% confidence level, less than 0.06 magnitude bias towards higher
   \Omega M and lower \Omega \Lambda and less than 0.10 magnitude bias
   towards lower \Omega M and higher \Omega \Lambda . These measurements
   and bounds on extinction will be even more important as we study
   supernovae at still higher redshifts and need to check for evolution in
   the host galaxy dust. We choose high Galactic latitude fields whenever
   possible, so that the extinction correction for our own Galaxy and its
   uncertainty are negligible. The one major exception in this current
   data set is SN 1994al, with AR ss 0:23 mag. (This supernova also
   appears to be a somewhat - 27 - fainter outlier among the
   width-corrected magnitudes on Figure 4b.) Since there is more
   uncertainty in the Galactic extinction correction for this supernova,
   we have fit just the other four width-corrected supernova magnitudes.
   For SN 1994H, SN 1994am, SN 1994G, and SN 1994an, we find \Omega M =
   1:25 +0:82\Gamma 0:69 for \Lambda = 0 and \Omega \Lambda = \Gamma 0:12
   +0:33\Gamma 0:40 for \Omega total = 1. K Correction. The generalized K
   correction used to transform R-band magnitudes of high redshift SNe to
   B-band rest frame magnitudes was tested for a variety of SN Ia spectra
   and found to vary by less than 0.04 mag for redshifts z ! 0:6 (Kim,
   Goobar, & Perlmutter 1996). The test spectra sample included examples
   in the range of light-curve widths between \Delta m15 = 0:94 mag (for
   SN 1991T) and \Delta m15 = 1:47 mag (for SN 1992A), but K corrections
   still need to be calculated to check for possible difference outside of
   this regime of the SN Ia family. Two of the five supernovae we used in
   our measurement fall just outside of this range of widths. As a check
   of a possible systematic error due to this, we consider just the
   subsample of three supernovae, SN 1994al, SN 1994am, and SN 1994G, with
   light curve widths within the studied range of K corrections. We find
   \Omega M = 0:61 +0:89\Gamma 0:61 for \Lambda = 0 and \Omega \Lambda =
   0:18 +0:35\Gamma 0:43 for \Omega total = 1. Malmquist Bias. The
   tendency to find the most luminous members of a distribution at large
   distances in a magnitude-limited search would appear to bias our
   results towards larger values of \Omega M and lower values of \Omega
   \Lambda . However, as the SN Ia Hubble diagram uses the peak brightness
   rather than that at detection, and the supernovae are "corrected" from
   different intrinsic brightnesses, any such Malmquist bias would not
   operate the same way it does for a population of normally-distributed
   static standard candles. The key issue is whether supernova samples are
   strongly biased at the detection level, as would be the case if most
   supernovae were discovered close to the threshold value. Our
   detection-efficiency studies (see Pain et al. 1996) show that the seven
   high-redshift supernovae were detected approximately 0.5 to 2
   magnitudes brighter than our limiting (50% efficiency) detection
   magnitude, md\Gamma 50 (see the final row of Table 1), and the
   efficiency on our CCD images drops off slowly beyond this limit.
   (Several of the SNe that we find at a significantly brighter magnitude
   than our threshold are in clusters that are closer than the limiting
   distance for a SN Ia. Such inhomogeneities in galaxy distribution can
   lead to a sample of supernovae that are not distributed primarily near
   the magnitude limit as expected in a magnitude limited search.) In
   contrast, the Cal'an/Tololo survey detected most of the low-redshift
   supernovae within ,0.7 magnitude of detection threshold and their
   efficiency on photographic plates dropped quickly beyond that limit
   (Maza, private communication). Malmquist bias may therefore result,
   counter-intuitively, in a slightly more luminous sample of the
   intrinsic SN Ia distribution for the low-redshift photographic search
   than for the high-redshift CCD search. Since, however, our current
   results already suggest a relatively high value for \Omega M and low
   value for \Omega \Lambda , we have nonetheless checked the possibility
   of Malmquist bias distorting the distributions of magnitudes we find at
   high redshift. First, as a rough test, we have compared the results
   (uncorrected for light-curve width) for the three supernovae discovered
   closest to the 50%-efficiency detection threshold, md\Gamma 50 , to the
   three supernovae discovered farthest from the threshold. We find that
   the difference in measured \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda between these
   two subsets is not - 28 - significant, and it is opposite to the
   direction of Malmquist bias. A more detailed quantitative study was
   based on a Monte Carlo analysis, in which the detection efficiency
   curve for each supernova was used with the Cal'an/Tololo "corrected"
   magnitude dispersion, oeHamuyMB;corr, to estimate the magnitude bias
   that should be present for each of the seven fields on which we
   discovered high-redshift supernovae. We find that only one supernova,
   SN 1994G, is on a field that shows any significant magnitude bias. Even
   for this supernova the bias, 0.01 mag, is still well below the
   intrinsic dispersion of the supernovae. Hence, when we reanalyze the
   data set, correcting SN 1994G by this amount, we find an insignificant
   change in our results for \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda . Because the
   high-redshift supernovae include both intrinsically narrow, subluminous
   cases and intrinsically broad, overluminous cases at comparable
   redshifts, a simple cross-check for Malmquist bias that is independent
   of detection-efficiency studies can be made by comparing the results
   for these two subsets separately. Malmquist bias would affect these two
   subsets differently, leading to a higher \Omega M and lower \Omega
   \Lambda for the broad, overluminous subsample than for the narrow,
   subluminous subsample. With our current sample we can compare only two
   supernovae in each of these subsamples that are in the "correctable"
   range of \Delta m15, so this will be a particularly interesting test to
   apply to the full sample of high-redshift supernovae when their
   light-curve observations are completed. The current data show no
   evidence of Malmquist bias. Supernova Evolution. Although there are
   theoretical reasons to believe that the physics of the supernova
   explosion should not depend strongly on the evolution of the progenitor
   and its environment, the empirical data are the final arbiters. Both
   the low-redshift and high-redshift supernovae are discovered in a
   variety of host galaxy types, with a range of histories. The small
   dispersion in intrinsic magnitude across this range, particularly after
   the width-luminosity correction, is itself an indication that any
   evolution is not changing the relationship between the light curve
   width/shape and its absolute brightness. (Note that the one supernova
   in an identified elliptical galaxy gives results for the cosmological
   parameters consistent with the full sample of supernovae; such a
   comparative test will of course be more useful with the larger
   samples.) In the near future, we will be able to look directly for
   signs of evolution in the ?18 spectra observed for the larger sample of
   high-redshift supernovae. So far, the spectral features studied match
   the low-redshift supernova spectra for the appropriate day on the light
   curve (in the supernova rest frame), showing no evidence for evolution.
   A more detailed analysis will soon be possible, as the host galaxy
   spectra are observed after the supernovae fade, and it becomes possible
   to study the supernova spectra without galaxy contamination.
   Gravitational Lensing. Since the mass of the universe is not
   homogeneously distributed, there is a potential source of increased
   magnitude dispersion, or even a magnitude shift, due to overdensities
   (or underdensities) acting as gravitational lenses that amplify (or
   deamplify) the supernova light. This effect was analyzed in a
   simplified "swiss cheese" model by Kantowski, Vaughan, & Branch (1995),
   and more recently using a perturbed Friedmann-Lema^itre cosmology - 29
   - by Frieman (1996) and an n-body simulation of a \Lambda CDM cosmology
   by Wambsganss et al. (1996). The conclusion of the most recent analyses
   is that the additional dispersion is negligible at the redshifts z !
   0:5 considered in this paper: Frieman estimates an upper limit of less
   than 0.04 magnitudes in additional dispersion. Any systematic shift in
   magnitude distribution is similarly small: Wambsganss et al. give the
   difference between the median of the distribution and the true value
   for their particular mass-density distribution, which corresponds to a
   ,0.025 magnitude shift at z = 0:5. We can take this as a bound on the
   magnitude shift, since our averaged results should be closer to the
   true value than the median would be. Alternative models for the mass
   density distribution must satisfy the same observational constraints on
   dark matter power at small scales (from pairwise peculiar velocities
   and abundances of galaxy clusters) and therefore should give similar
   results. 7. Discussion We wish to stress two important aspects of this
   measurement. First, although we have considered many potential sources
   of error and possible approaches to the analysis, the essential results
   that we find are independent of almost all of these complications: this
   direct measurement of the cosmological parameters can be derived from
   just the peak magnitudes of the supernovae, their redshifts, and the
   corresponding K corrections. Second, we emphasize that the
   high-redshift supernova data sets provide enough detailed information
   for each individual supernova that we can perform tests for many
   possible sources of systematic error by comparing results for supernova
   subsets that are affected differently by the potential source of error.
   This is a major benefit of these distance indicators. There have been
   many previous measurements and limits for the mean mass density of the
   Universe. The methods that sample the largest scales via peculiar
   velocities of galaxies and their production through potential
   fluctuations have tended to yield values of \Omega M close to unity
   (Dekel, Burstein, & White 1996 but see Davis et al. 1996 and Willick et
   al. 1997). Such techniques, however, only constrain fi = \Omega 0:6M =b
   where b is the biasing factor for the galaxy tracers, which is
   generally unknown (but see Zaroubi et al. 1996). Alternative methods
   based on cluster dynamics (Carlberg et al. 1995) and gravitational
   lensing (Squires et al. 1996) give consistently lower values of \Omega
   M '0.2-0.4. There are many reasons, however, why these values could be
   underestimates, particularly if clusters are surrounded by extensive
   dark halos. The measurement using supernovae has the advantage of being
   a global measurement that includes all forms of matter, dark or
   visible, baryonic or non-baryonic, "clumped" or not. Our value of
   \Omega M = 0:88 +0:69\Gamma 0:60 for a \Lambda = 0 cosmology does not
   yet rule out many currently favored theories, but it does provide a
   first global measurement that is consistent with a standard Friedmann
   cosmology. Our measurement for a flat universe, \Omega M = 0:94
   +0:34\Gamma 0:28, is more constraining: even at the 95% confidence
   limit, \Omega M ? 0:49, this result requires non-baryonic dark matter.
   - 30 - In a flat universe (\Omega total = 1), the constraint on the
   cosmological constant from gravitational lens statistics is \Omega
   \Lambda ! 0:66 at the 95% level (Kochanek 1995; see also Rix 1996 and
   Fukugita et al. 1992). (In establishing this limit, Kochanek included
   the statistical uncertainties in the observed population of lenses,
   galaxies, quasars, and the uncertainties in the parameters relating
   galaxy luminosity to dynamical variables; he also presented an analysis
   of the various models of the lens, lens galaxy, and extinction to show
   the result to be insensitive to the sources of systematic error
   considered.) Our upper limit for the flat universe case, \Omega \Lambda
   ! 0:51 ( 95% confidence level), is somewhat smaller than the
   gravitational lens upper limit, and provides an independent, direct
   route to this important result. The supernova magnitude-redshift
   approach actually provides a measurement, \Omega \Lambda = 0:06
   +0:28\Gamma 0:34, rather than a limit. The probability of gravitational
   lensing varies steeply with \Omega \Lambda down to the \Omega \Lambda
   ss 0:6 level, but is less sensitive below this level, so the limits
   from gravitational lens statistics are unlikely to improve
   dramatically. The uncertainty on the \Omega \Lambda measurement from
   the high-redshift supernovae, however, is likely to narrow by p3 as we
   reduce the data from the next ,18 high-redshift supernovae that we are
   now observing. For the more general case of a Friedmann-Lema^itre
   cosmology with the sum of \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda unconstrained,
   the measured bounds on the cosmological constant are, of course,
   broader. A review of the observational constraints on the cosmological
   constant by Carroll, Press, & Turner (1992) concluded that the best
   bounds are \Gamma 7 ! \Omega \Lambda ! 2, based on the existence of
   high-redshift objects, the ages of globular clusters and cosmic nuclear
   chronometry, galaxy counts as a function of redshift or apparent
   magnitude, dynamical tests (clustering and structure formation), quasar
   absorption line statistics, gravitational lens statistics, and the
   astrophysics of distant objects. Even in the case of unconstrained
   \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda , we find a significantly tighter bound on
   the lower limit: \Omega \Lambda ? \Gamma 2:3 (at the two-tailed 95%
   confidence level, for comparison). Our upper limit is similar to the
   previous bounds, but provides an independent check: \Omega \Lambda !
   1:1 for \Omega M !, 1 or \Omega \Lambda ! 2:1 for \Omega M !, 2. These
   current measurements of \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda are inconsistent
   with high values of the Hubble constant (H0 ? 70 km s\Gamma 1 Mpc\Gamma
   1) taken together with ages greater than t0 = 13 billion years for the
   globular cluster stars. This can be seen in Figure 6, which compares
   the confidence region for the high-redshift supernovae on the \Omega
   M-\Omega \Lambda plane with the t0 contours. Above the 68% confidence
   region, only a small fraction of probability lies at ages 13 Gyr or
   higher for H0 * 70 km s\Gamma 1 Mpc\Gamma 1, and this age range favors
   low values for \Omega M. Once again, the analysis of our next set of
   high-redshift supernovae will test and refine these results. We wish to
   acknowledge the community effort of many observers who contributed to
   the data, including Susana Deustua, Bruce Grossan, Nial Tanvir, Emilio
   Harlaftis, J. Lucy, J. Steel, George Jacoby, Michael Pierce, Chris
   O'Dea, Eric Smith, Wilfred Walsh, Neil Trentham, Tim Mckay, Marc
   Azzopardi, Jean-Paul Veran, Roc Cutri, Luis Campusano, Roger Clowes,
   Matthew Graham, Luigi Guzzo, and Pierre Martin. We thank Marc Postman,
   Tod Lauer, William Oegerle, and John Hoessel, in particular, for their
   more extended participation in the observing, in coordination with - 31
   - the Deeprange Project. We thank David Branch and Peter Nugent for
   discussions and comments. The observations described in this paper were
   primarily obtained as visiting/guest astronomers at the Isaac Newton
   and William Herschel Telescopes, operated by the Royal Greenwich
   Observatory at the Spanish Observatorio del Roque de los Muchachos of
   the Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias; the Kitt Peak National
   Observatory 4-meter and 2.1-meter telescopes and Cerro Tololo
   Inter-American Observatory 4-meter telescope, both operated by the
   National Optical Astronomy Observatory under contract to the National
   Science Foundation; the Keck I 10-m telescope, operated by the
   California Association for Research in Astronomy as a scientific
   partnership between the California Institute of Technology and the
   University of California and made possible by the generous gift of the
   W. M. Keck Foundation; the Nordic Optical 2.5-meter telescope; and the
   Siding Springs 2.3-meter telescope of the Australian National
   University. We thank the staff of these observatories for their
   excellent assistance. This work was supported in part by the Physics
   Division, E. O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory of the U. S.
   Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF000098, and by the
   National Science Foundation's Center for Particle Astrophysics,
   University of California, Berkeley under grant No. ADT-88909616. A. V.
   F. acknowledges the support of NSF grant No. AST-9417213 and A. G.
   acknowledges the support of the Swedish Natural Science Research
   Council. - 32 - REFERENCES Abell, G. C. 1972, in External Galaxies and
   Quasi-Stellar Objects, IAU Symp. 44, ed. D. S. Evans (Dordrecht:
   Reidel), 341 Barnett, R. M., et al. 1996, Phys. Rev., D54, 1 Branch,
   D., Nugent, P., & Fisher, A. 1997, Thermonuclear Supernovae, eds. P.
   Ruiz-Lapuente, R. Canal, & J. Isern (Dordrecht: Kluwer), 1997 Branch,
   D. Romanishin, W. & Baron, E. 1996, ApJ, 465, 73 Burstein, D., &
   Heiles, C. 1982, AJ, 87, 1165 Carlberg, R. G., Yee, H. C. & Ellingson,
   E. 1996, ApJ, in press (astro-ph/9509034) Carroll, S. M., Press, W. H.,
   & Turner, E. L. 1992, Ann. Rev. Astro. Astrophys., 30, 499 Christian,
   C. A. , Adams, M., Barnes, J. V., Butcher, H. , Hayes, D. S., Mould, J.
   R., & Siegel, M. 1985. PASP, 9, 363 Davis, M., Nusser, A. & Willick, J.
   A. 1996, ApJ, 473, 22 Dekel, A., Burstein, D., White, S. 1996, in
   Critical Dialogues in Cosmology, ed. N. Turok (World Scientific), in
   press (astro-ph/9611108) Filippenko, A. V. 1991, in Supernovae and
   Stellar Evolution, eds. A. Ray & T. Velusamy (Singapore: World
   Scientific), 34 Filippenko, A. V., et al. 1992a, ApJ, 384, L15
   Filippenko, A. V., et al. 1992b, AJ, 104, 1543 Frieman, J. 1996,
   Comments on Astrophysics, in press Fukugita, M., Futamase, T., Kasai,
   M., & Turner, E. L. 1992, ApJ, 393, 3 Garnavich, P., et al. 1996a,
   Internat. Astronomical Union Circular, no. 6332 Garnavich, P., et al.
   1996b, Internat. Astronomical Union Circular, no. 6358 Goldhaber, G.,
   et al. 1997, in Thermonuclear Supernovae, eds. P. Ruiz-Lapuente, R.
   Canal, & J. Isern (Dordrecht: Kluwer) Goobar, A. & Perlmutter, S. 1995,
   ApJ, 450, 14 Gunn, J. E. & Oke, J. B. 1975, ApJ, 195, 255 Hamuy, M., et
   al. 1994, AJ, 108, 2226 - 33 - Hamuy, M., Phillips, M. M., Maza, J.,
   Suntzeff, N. B., Schommer, R., & Aviles, R. 1995, AJ, 109, 1 Hamuy, M.,
   Phillips, M. M., Schommer, R., Suntzeff, N. B., Maza, J., & Aviles, R.
   1996, AJ, in press Kantowski, R., Vaughan, T., & Branch, D. 1995, ApJ,
   447, 35 Khohklov, A., M"uller, E., & H"oflich, P. 1993, A&A, 270, 223
   Kim, A., et al. 1997, ApJ, 476, L63 Kim, A., Goobar, A., & Perlmutter,
   S. 1996, Pub. Astr. Soc. Pacific, 108, 190 Kochanek, C. S. 1995, ApJ,
   453, 545 Kristian, J., Sandage, A. R. & Westphal, J. 1978, ApJ, 221,
   383 Landolt, A. U. 1992, AJ, 104, 340 Leibundgut, B., Tammann, G. A.,
   Cadonau, R., & Cerrito, D. 1991, Astron. Astrophys. Suppl. Ser., 89,
   537 Leibundgut, B., et al. 1993, AJ, 105, 301 Lilly, S. J. & Longair,
   M. S. 1984, MNRAS, 211, 833 Massey, P., Armandroff, T., De Veny, J.,
   Claver, C., Harmer, C., Jacoby, G., Sc hoening, B., & Silva, D. 1996,
   Direct Imaging Manual for Kitt Peak (Tucson: NOAO) No/rgaard-Nielson,
   H. U., Hansen, L., Jorgensen, H. E., Salamanca, A. A., Ellis, R. S., &
   Couch, W. J. 1989, Nature, 339, 523 Nugent, P., Phillips, M., Baron,
   E., Branch, D. & Hauschildt, P. 1996, ApJ (Lett.), in press Pain, R.,
   et al. 1996, ApJ, 473, 356 Perlmutter, S., et al. 1994, Internat.
   Astronomical Union Circular, nos. 5956 and 5958 Perlmutter, S., et al.
   1995a, ApJ, 440, L41 Perlmutter, S., et al. 1995b, Internat.
   Astronomical Union Circular, no. 6270 Perlmutter, S., et al. 1997a,
   Thermonuclear Supernovae, eds. P. Ruiz-Lapuente, R. Canal, & J. Isern
   (Dordrecht: Kluwer) Perlmutter, S., et al. 1997b, Nuclear Physics B
   (Proc. Suppl.), 51B, 123 Phillips, M. M., et al. 1992, AJ, 103, 1632 -
   34 - Phillips, M. M. 1993, ApJ, 413, L105 Press, W. H., Flannery, B.
   P., Teukolsky, S. A., & Vetterling, W. T. 1986, Numerical Recipes,
   (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press) Rawlings, S., Lacey, M. &
   Eales, S. 1993, Gemini Newsletter (RGO) Riess, A. G., Press, W. H., &
   Kirshner, R. P. 1995, ApJ, 438, L17 Riess, A. G., Press, W. H., &
   Kirshner, R. P. 1996, ApJ, 473, 88 Rix, H.-W. 1996, in Astrophysics
   Applications of Gravitational Lensing, IAU Symp. 173, eds. C. S.
   Kochanek & J. N. Hewitt (Dordrecht: Kluwer), in press Sandage, A. R.
   1961, ApJ, 133, 355 Sandage, A. R. 1989, Ann. Rev. Astr. Astrophys.,
   26, 561 Schmidt, B., et al. 1997, Thermonuclear Supernovae, eds. P.
   Ruiz-Lapuente, R. Canal, & J. Isern (Dordrecht: Kluwer) Schramm, D. N.
   1990, In Astrophysical Ages and Dating Methods, eds. E. Vangioni-Flam
   et al. (Gif sur Yvette:Edition Frontiers) Squires, G., Kaiser, N.,
   Fahlman, G., Babul, A. & Woods, D. 1996, ApJ, in press
   (astroph/9602105) Tammann, G. 1983, In Clusters and Groups of Galaxies,
   eds. Mardirossian et al., (Dordrecht:Kluwer), 561 Vaughan, T., Branch,
   D., Miller, D., & Perlmutter, S. 1995, ApJ, 439, 558 Vaughan, T.,
   Branch, D., & Perlmutter, S. 1995, preprint Wambsganss, J., Cen, R.,
   Xu, G. & Ostriker, J. P. 1996, ApJ, 475, L81 Willick, J., et al. 1997,
   ApJ, submitted (astro-ph/9612240) Zaroubi, S., Dekel, A., Hoffman, Y. &
   Kolatt, T. 1996, ApJ, in press (astro-ph/9603068) This preprint was
   prepared with the AAS LATEX macros v4.0. - 35 - Table 1. Supernova Data
   and Photometry Error Budget SN 1992bi SN 1994H SN 1994al SN 1994F SN
   1994am SN 1994G SN 1994an z [a] 0.458 0.374 0.420 0.354 0.372 0.425
   0.378 mR 22.01 (9)b 21.38 (5) 22.42 (6) 22.06 (17) 21.73 (6) 21.65 (16)
   22.02 (7) AR [c] 0.003 (1) 0.039 (4) 0.228 (114) 0.010 (1) 0.039 (4)
   0.000 (1) 0.132 (13) KBR \Gamma 0.70 (1) \Gamma 0.58 (3) \Gamma 0.65
   (1) \Gamma 0.56 (3) \Gamma 0.58 (2.5) \Gamma 0.66 (1) \Gamma 0.59 (2.5)
   mB 22.71 (9) 21.92 (6) 22.84 (13) 22.61 (18) 22.27 (7) 22.31 (16) 22.48
   (7) s 1.45 (18) 1.09 (5) 0.95 (12) 0.67 (15) 0.86 (3) 1.01 (13) 0.77
   (9) \Delta m15 0.47 (17) 0.91 (9) 1.17 (27) 2.04 (65) 1.39 (10) 1.04
   (25) 1.65 (32) \Delta f 1:1gcorr [0.55 (20)]d 0.16 (9) \Gamma 0.06 (23)
   [\Gamma 0.81 (59)]d \Gamma 0.25 (10) 0.05 (22) \Gamma 0.47 (30) mB;corr
   [23.26 (24)]d 22.08 (11) 22.79 (27) [21.80 (69)]d 22.02 (14) 22.36 (35)
   22.01 (33) tspect [e] 84 (3) 219 (2) 209 (2)f -2 (2)g 203 (2)f 13 (1)h
   3 (2) Bands R B; R R R R B; R; I B; R md\Gamma 50 [j] 1.0 1.9 0.8 0.4
   0.9 0.5 1.5 Note. -- The uncertainties in the least significant digit
   are given in parentheses. Section 4 of the text defines the variables.
   aThe redshifts were measured from host-galaxy spectral features, and
   their uncertainties are all ! ,0.001. bThis value for mR of SN 1992bi
   incorporates more recent light curve and calibration data than were
   available when Perlmutter et al. (1995) was prepared. These new data
   have improved the photometry error bars, as that paper suggested. The
   small change in the mR value quoted is also partly due to the extra
   degree of freedom in the new fit of the template light curve to a
   stretch factor, s. cExtinction for our Galaxy, AR = RRE(B\Gamma V )B&H,
   where RR = 2:58 \Sigma 0:01 was calculated using well-observed SN Ia
   spectra redshifted appropriately for each supernova, and the E(B\Gamma
   V )B&H values for each supernova coordinate are from Burstein & Heiles
   (1982) and Burstein, private communication (1996). dSince SN 1992bi and
   SN 1994F have \Delta m15 values outside of the range for low-redshift
   SNe, we do not use these lightcurve-width-corrected values for mB;corr
   for any of the results of this paper. In the figures, we do plot them
   as grey squares, along with white squares for the following alternative
   values that are corrected only to the extreme of \Delta f 1:1gcorr
   values for low-redshift supernovae: mextreme B;corr = 22:97(24) for SN
   1992bi, and mextremeB;corr = 22:05(69) for SN 1994F. etspect is the
   number of days past B maximum in the supernova rest frame of the first
   spectrum. Generally, only the host galaxy spectrum is bright enough to
   be useful later than tspect ?, 30 days. fSpectrum of host galaxy showed
   the strong 4000*A break of an elliptical galaxy, indicating that SN
   1994al and SN 1994am are type Ia supernovae (see also Figure 1). gKeck
   spectrum of SN 1994F observed by J.B. Oke, J. Cohen, and T. Bida. hMMT
   spectrum observed by P. Challis, A. Riess, and R. Kirshner. We also
   observed a spectrum at the Keck telescope 15 rest-frame days past B
   maximum. jm d\Gamma 50 is the magnitude difference between the
   discovery magnitude and the detection threshold, i.e. the magnitude at
   which 50% of simulated supernovae are detected for the image in which
   the supernova was discovered. Note that the discovery magnitude is
   generally fainter than the peak magnitude, mR, since most discoveries
   are before maximum light. - 36 - Table 2. Cosmological Parameters from
   SNe 94H, 94al, 94am, 94G, and 94an \Omega M \Omega \Lambda for
   no-\Lambda universe for flat universe (\Omega \Lambda = 0) (\Omega
   total j \Omega M + \Omega \Lambda = 1) Light-Curve-Width Correcteda
   0:88 +0:69\Gamma 0:60 0:06 +0:28\Gamma 0:34 Uncorrectedb 0:93
   +0:69\Gamma 0:60 0:03 +0:29\Gamma 0:34 aThe results are the best fit of
   the lightcurve-width-corrected data, mB;corr = mB + \Delta f 1:1gcorr ,
   of Table 1 to Equation 4, with M = Mf1:1g B;corr = \Gamma 3:32 \Sigma
   0:05. The probability of obtaining the best-fit O/2 or higher for both
   the \Lambda = 0 and flat universes is Q(O/2j*) = 0:75. bThe results are
   the best fit of the data, mB, of Table 1 to Equation 4, with M = MB =
   \Gamma 3:17 \Sigma 0:03. The probability of obtaining the best-fit O/2
   or higher for both the \Lambda = 0 and flat universes is Q(O/2j*) =
   0:34.
