http://nickles.senate.gov/contact/privacystatement.cfm

                           US Senator Don Nickles

                                   Contact
                            Information About the
                              Senator Strictly
                               Oklahoma Press
                              Releases Services
                         for Oklahomans Legislative
                               Issues Student
                                Senate Search
                                  Page Home
                                    Page

                  Privacy Statement

                  Privacy Statement for Senator Don Nickles

   Thank you for visiting the virtual office of Senator Don Nickles.
   Protecting the personal privacy of individuals who choose to use this
   site is important. The privacy policy for visitors of this site is: the
   Internet site collects no personal information about you when you visit
   the site unless you choose to provide that information so that we can
   contact you about an issue, help you with a problem, or gather opinions
   from various sources to help keep us better informed of the needs of
   the Constituents of Oklahoma. For further details on specific uses of
   information, please review the following topics:
     * Sending Senator Nickles E-Mail, Signing the Guest Book or Personal
       Casework Information
     * Senate Collection of Non-Identifying Information
     * Links to Other Sites. If you have any questions or comments please
       contact Senator Nickles' Webmaster at Webmaster@nickles.senate.gov.

     Sending Senator Nickles E-Mail, Signing the Guest Book or Personal
                            Casework Information

   Senator Nickles' Web site is not set up to collect any personal
   information about you when you visit the site unless you choose to
   provide that information. To send Senator Nickles an electronic mail
   message expressing your views or concerns specifically related to
   legislative issues or the legislative agenda, you can send the email to
   senator@nickles.senate.gov. If you are interested in sending general
   comments to Senator Nickles, please sign our guest book at the
   following e-mail address: guestbook@nickles.senate.gov. This
   information, if you choose to provide it, is used to contact you about
   your issues of interest and/or to provide an acknowledgement to your
   comments. A form for casework assistance is available for download and
   will be used solely for any assistance regarding problems you may be
   experiencing in dealing with a government agency. The information is
   available to members of Senator Nickles' staff so they can help in
   responding to your message or request.

   If you are requesting help with a casework matter, it also may be
   necessary for our office to share the information you provide with the
   government agency from which you are requesting assistance, in order to
   respond to your request. Senator Nickles' office will not share any
   personal information communicated through the Internet site with any
   outside organization or individual, except in the following situations:
   (1) when needed to perform constituent casework at your request; or (2)
   in the course of an authorized law enforcement investigation or
   emergency posing an imminent risk to public safety.

              Senate Collection of Non-Identifying Information

   The U.S. Senate collects aggregate data about visits to Senate Internet
   sites, such as statistics that show which parts of each Internet site
   were visited the most. The following information is also collected when
   you visit any U.S. Senate Internet site: the domain from which you
   access the site, the date and time of your visit, the pages you visit,
   and the address of the site, if any, that provided the link from which
   you reached the Senate site. This information is gathered only to help
   the Senate improve the services provided to Senate on-line visitors. No
   individual identifying information (such as your name) is automatically
   gathered when you visit any Senate Internet site. Senator Nickles site
   does not use intrusive cookies or other means to track personal
   information about your visit in any way. For more information about
   Senate Internet security, go to U.S. Senate Internet Security and
   Privacy Policy.

                            Links to Other Sites

   Senator Nickles Internet site has links to other useful sites on the
   Internet, including sites of other government agencies and sites
   relating to Oklahoma. If you follow any link to a location outside this
   Web site, you should refer to that site's own privacy policy.

                             Back to Front Page

                  Image of the State of Oklahoma
                             Contact Information
                                Office Locations
                          E-Mail Senator Nickles
                              Sign the Guestbook
