http://sabr.ngdc.noaa.gov




   [null.gif]

   DMSP Orbits | Global Mosaics |MODIS Pilot Project | DMSP Film Archive |
                                    SPIDR

   [null.gif]

     DMSP Archive Description

     Description of DMSP Sensors

     Data Availability

     Data Services/Pricing

     Projects - Past and Present

     Space Physics Interactive Data Resource (SPIDR)

     City Lights at Night

     Tropical Cyclone Images

     Posters and Slides

   [null.gif]




                                [dmspTl.gif]
                                 DMSP Orbits
   Individual OLS orbits are available whole or subset into latitude
   range. On average, each satellite records 14 orbits per day. Each orbit
   contains both visible and thermal infrared data interleaved by line.
   The latitude and longitude of the nadir pixel is recorded for each
   line. Each line contains 1465 pixels of data with a ground sample
   distance of 2.7 km. The visible band records values of 0 - 63. The
   thermal infrared band records values of 0 - 255, corresponding to
   temperatures of 190 to 310 K.
   For additional information about the DMSP satellites and sensors,
   please refer to information pages at dmsp.ngdc.noaa.gov

                                  tutorial

                               [mosaicTl.gif]
                                DMSP Mosaics
   The orbit data from DMSP satellites are geolocated into a 3 arc-minute
   grid (20 pixels per degree) and mosaicked together each hour. Several
   mosaics are available: most recent thermal infrared from F13, F14 and
   F15 and a most recent combined mosaic using data from the three
   satellites. Visible band mosaics are available from F14 and F15 for
   nighttime (ascending passes)and daytime (descending passes). Hourly
   mosaics for today, yesterday, and the day before yesterday are
   available for browsing. Prior days have mosaics available at 6 hour
   intervals. For additional information about the DMSP satellites and
   sensors, please refer to information pages at dmsp.ngdc.noaa.gov

                                  tutorial

                                [modisTl.gif]
                               MODIS Granules
   The NGDC MODIS LTA pilot project demonstrated the electronic transfer,
   ingest and dissemination of MODIS Level 1B data. A total of 2.8 TB of
   MODIS data were transferred using NGDC's Abiline (Internet 2)
   connection. NGDC ingested the MODIS data, creating browse image,
   coverage maps, and records in a relational database while writing the
   data into a full resolution data into a tape library system. NGDC
   developed an on-line system , SABR, inpart to provide query, browse,
   and retrieval
   of MODIS data from the tape library. This is a demonstartion of the
   prototype.

                                  tutorial

                               [archiveTl.gif]
                                Film Archive

   DMSP OLS data were recorded on film prior to March 1992. These data are
   being "rescued" (i.e. scanned for use digitally). Data that have been
   scanned are available in Mr.Sid format. Orbits have been divided into
   several sections for ease of scanning. The SABR preview system will
   allow you to browse these important holdings by date and retreive
   desired images.

          Download a free Mr. Sid viewer from Lizard Tech, Inc. at
                          http://www.lizardtech.com

                                  tutorial

                                [spidrTl.gif]
                                    SPIDR
   The Space Physics Interactive Data Resource (SPIDR) is designed to
   allow a solar terrestrial physics customer to intelligently access and
   manage historical space physics data for integration with environment
   models and space weather forecasts. SPIDR is a distributed network of
   synchronous databases and 100% Java middle-ware servers accessed via
   World Wide Web. By enabling easy data mirroring and eliminating the
   network bottlenecks associated with transcontinental links, the
   distributed system architecture is a key factor for low latency in
   multimedia data visualization and fast data delivery.

                                  tutorial
