http://www.nci.nih.gov/FAQ/

   text only skip navigation
   National Cancer Institute Cancer.gov
                                        dictionary
                                        sitemap
                                        search

   home about NCI cancer information clinical trials statistics research
                  programs research funding


      FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)

   I am new to the site, where do I start?
   What information is available on Cancer.gov?
   Is Cancer.gov information credible?
   How frequently is Cancer.gov updated?
   Is Cancer.gov accessible to all users?
   What is PDQ?
   How do I find information about participating in clinical trials?
   Does the NCI have information about complementary and alternative
   therapies?
   What if there are medical terms I don't understand?
   How do I order NCI publications?
   Where can I find cancer incidence and mortality rates?
   How can I find information about preventing cancer?
   How can I find funding for my research?
   Where do I find information about research that NCI is currently
   supporting?
   What is a Best Bet?
   What if I can't find the information I'm looking for?



                                return to top

   Welcome to Cancer.gov! This Web site provides current and accurate
   information from the National Cancer Institute, the Federal
   government's principal agency for cancer research. You will find a wide
   range of cancer information, including treatment options, clinical
   trials, ways to reduce cancer risk, ways to cope with cancer, and
   resources for researchers and health care professionals.

I am new to the site, where do I start?

   To learn how to find information on Cancer.gov, go to Cancer.gov Help.
   The Site Map provides direct links to all of Cancer.gov's main
   sections. Also, you will gain a good overview of the site by reading
   these FAQs.



                                return to top

What information is available on Cancer.gov?

   Cancer.gov is the Web site of the National Cancer Institute (NCI), the
   Federal government's principal agency for cancer research. Patients and
   their loved ones, advocates, health professionals, researchers, and
   anyone else interested in cancer will find a wide range of
   authoritative cancer information here. Arranged topically for easy
   navigation, the Web site's broad content categories include:

          Cancer Information
          Clinical Trials
          Statistics
          Research Programs
          Research Funding



                                return to top

Is Cancer.gov information credible?

   Yes. Cancer.gov is the National Cancer Institute (NCI) on the Web. The
   NCI is the Federal government's principal agency for cancer research
   and a component of the National Institutes of Health. The information
   sources on Cancer.gov include NCI's comprehensive cancer database, PDQ,
   which contains peer-reviewed summaries of the latest information about
   cancer treatment, screening, prevention, genetics, and supportive care,
   as well as a clinical trials directory. Cancer.gov also offers
   authoritative information about NCI research funding opportunities,
   current research programs, and key cancer statistics compiled by NCI.



                                return to top

How frequently is Cancer.gov updated?

   The information on Cancer.gov comes from a wide variety of sources
   within and outside NCI and is updated regularly on a variety of
   schedules. Wherever possible, a Cancer.gov item will display the date
   on which it was originally posted or last updated.



                                return to top

Is Cancer.gov accessible to all users?

   Cancer.gov is the umbrella site of the National Cancer Institute and
   includes links to many other Web sites within and outside NCI, some of
   which may not be entirely accessible. However, the NCI is committed to
   making Cancer.gov itself accessible to all users, regardless of special
   need. The site is compatible with screen readers and other assistive
   devices. If you are using assistive devices and have difficulty
   accessing the information on Cancer.gov, please send an email to
   cancer.gov_staff@mail.nih.gov and include the URL(s) of the page(s) you
   are having trouble with.



                                return to top

What is PDQ?

   PDQ is an NCI database containing the latest information about cancer
   treatment, screening, prevention, genetics, and supportive care, plus
   clinical trials. This information is based on advances in cancer
   research and is updated and reviewed frequently by cancer experts.



                                return to top

How do I find information about participating in clinical trials?

   For background information about clinical trials -- what they are,
   whether they might be of benefit to you -- go to Understanding Clinical
   Trials. Ways to find specific cancer clinical trials are listed on
   Finding Clinical Trials. Other clinical trial-related information can
   be found elsewhere within the Clinical Trials section of Cancer.gov.



                                return to top

Does the NCI have information about complementary and alternative therapies?

   The Cancer Information area of Cancer.gov contains information about
   complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). NCI's Office of Cancer
   Complementary and Alternative Medicine coordinates NCI activities and
   research related to CAM.



                                return to top

What if there are medical terms I don't understand?

   Use Cancer.gov's Dictionary (see navigation bar at the top of each
   Cancer.gov page). The Dictionary contains definitions of medical terms
   along with a phonetic spelling for many terms.



                                return to top

How do I order NCI publications?

   NCI offers a wide variety of free educational print materials. The link
   to NCI's Publications Locator can be found on the sidebar throughout
   Cancer.gov and takes you to a site where you can view and/or order
   publications online. You can also order publications by calling the
   NCI's Cancer Information Service at 1-800-4-CANCER (1-800-422-6237).



                                return to top

Where can I find cancer incidence and mortality rates?

   Simply click on Statistics on Cancer.gov's home page or on the
   navigation bar that appears at the top of all Cancer.gov pages.



                                return to top

How can I find information about preventing cancer?

   NCI's Division of Cancer Prevention Web site is a central place to find
   prevention information. The Cancer Information area of Cancer.gov also
   includes a section, Prevention, Genetics, Causes, with information
   about preventing cancer.



                                return to top

How can I find funding for my research?

   The Research Funding area of Cancer.gov includes links to NCI funding
   announcements, application forms, and information on application review
   procedures and funding policies.



                                return to top

Where do I find information about research that NCI is currently supporting?

   The Research Programs area of Cancer.gov contains detailed information
   about research that NCI is supporting at institutions throughout the
   country and here at the NCI. In this section is the NCI's Cancer
   Research Portfolio, a comprehensive database of all NCI-supported
   research projects, searchable by specific cancer and by type of
   research area.



                                return to top

What is a Best Bet?

   Cancer.gov's Best Bets feature matches cancer-related search terms and
   editorially selected Web sites or pages (the Best Bets). When you use
   the "search" tool on Cancer.gov, and a Best Bets list is available, the
   search retrieves the appropriate Best Bets list and displays it at the
   top of the total search results.



                                return to top

What if I can't find the information I'm looking for?

   For help in finding information on Cancer.gov, go to Cancer.gov Help.
   There you will also learn how to get NCI cancer information by phone,
   fax, email, or mail. Information from cancer organizations other than
   NCI can be found on our Links to Other Web Sites.



   return to top




   ______________

   Advanced submit search

   Andrew von Eschenbach Named Director of the NCI
   NCI Launches Redesigned, Cancer Resource Web Site
   Past Highlights
   NewsCenter

   Help

   Cancer.gov Help
   FAQs
   Index of NCI Sites

                            Español   Text Only


   HOME SEARCH SITE MAP CONTACT HELP ACCESSIBILITY PRIVACY POLICY National
   Institutes of Health Department of Health and Human Services
   FirstGov.gov
