http://developers.ivv.nasa.gov/collab/pubs/ltpbroch2.2.pdf

   Learning Technologies Project (LTP) Ames Research Center (ARC) Learning
   Technologies Channel Quest Sharing NASA Internet Video Series Dryden
   Flight Research Center Goddard Space Flight Center Jet Propulsion
   Laboratory promotes the growth of a national information infrastructure
   Project SPACE using the vast amount of information the National
   Aeronau- Telescopes in Education tics and Space Administration (NASA)
   has acquired since its Johnson Space Center creation. Kennedy Space
   Center Virtual Science Mentor Program Langley Research Center Access to
   this knowledge allows the public and industry to K-12 Education
   Outreach Centers. NASA Langley's Kids Corner MarsQuest contribute to
   rapid and significant advances in science, engi- Center projects
   breathe life and immediacy into NASA Connect neering, and technology.
   curricula - incorporating technology to en- Off to a Flying Start hance
   learning, and using technological ad- PRC .nasa.gov vances to serve
   educational goals. Glenn Research Center Marshall Space Flight Center
   Stennis Space Center LTP is part of a larger government initiative, the
   High Performance Com- K-14 Aeronautics Projects. Eight distinct and
   Aerodynamics in Sports Technology puting and Communications (HPCC)
   program, whose mission is to accel- exciting projects are funded by
   NASA's Learn- ALLSTAR Network erate the development, application, and
   transfer of high-performance tech- ing Technologies Project for the
   express pur- Aviation Academy 2000 nologies to the US engineering and
   science communities. pose of using the Internet to teach science, K-8
   Aeronautics Internet Textbook mathematics, engineering, and aeronautics
   in LDAPS: Engineering in Kindergarten LTP projects increase public
   grades K-14. Plane Math access to scientific databases, SHaring
   Aeronautics Projects Electronically: develop new applications and
   Digital Library Technology (DLT) Projects. SHAPE pilot programs for
   using sci- These projects support the development of new Student
   program for Aeronautics Resources for ence data, and create new cur-
   technologies that facilitate public access to Knowledge: SPARK riculum
   products and tools for NASA data via computer networks. Take Off! K-12
   and K-14 education - all NASA's Observatorium of this via the Internet:
   Special Projects. LTP's Special Projects are "Exploring the Internet
   NASA" CD-ROM designed to encourage the development of in- h t t p : //
   novative applications of Earth and space sci- le a r n . iv v. n a s a
   . g o v ence remote sensing data. By stimulating broad public use, via
   the Internet, of the databases maintained by NASA and other agencies,
   the program encourages schools, businesses, and citizens to access and
   use Earth and space sci- ence data. IITA - Legacy Projects. A project
   of the Na- http://learn.ivv tional Aeronautics and Space Administration
   (NASA), IITA funded more than fifty different projects before its
   conclusion in 1997. Postage recipients address LTP Address?
