http://www.foia.state.gov/faqs.asp


                           U.S. Department of State
                                          Menu picks

   Skip to main content   Freedom of Information Act

   Electronic Reading Room


   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [menu_r1_c1.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to the FOIA home page [menu_r2_c2.gif] [menu_r2_c3.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   Link to welcome [menu_r3_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to the about FOIA page [menu_r4_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to References [menu_r5_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to FOIA Documentation Collections [menu_r6_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to Search Out Web Site [menu_r7_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to other useful web sites [menu_r8_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   GS [spacer.gif]
   Popular Links Below [spacer.gif]
   Link to FOIA Documentation Collections [menu_r11_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [menu_r12_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to the 9 FAM (Foreign Affairs Manual on Visas) [menu_r13_c2.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   Key Officers Listing [menu_r14_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Link to the Information Directory including the Alpha Listing, Key
   Officers Listing, World Time Table, etc. [menu_r15_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [menu_r16_c2.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [menu_r17_c1.gif] [spacer.gif]
     FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)
   Provided by the Bureau of Administration (A/RPS/IPS)
   About State Department Records

What is a record?
What kind of records can I obtain from the State Department?
Does the State Department keep all of its records?
What is a Records Disposition Schedule?
What is the difference between a permanent and a temporary record?
When are State Department records transferred to the National Archives?
Are all records released when they become 25 years old?
What is "classified" information?
How are State Department records organized?
What is the official filing system for State Department’s records?

   About the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

What is the purpose of FOIA?
How do I make a FOIA request?
Will I be charged for making a FOIA request?
What happens when the State Department receives my FOIA request?
Will I receive documents dating up to the date when the search is conducted
for the records I requested?
Will I receive all the records I've asked for?
Can I appeal a decision of denial of access?
Can I appeal a decision not to waive or reduce fees?

   About the Privacy Act

What is the purpose of the Privacy Act?
What records can be requested under the Privacy Act?
Who can request records under the Privacy Act?
How do I request my own records?
Will there be a charge for documents obtained under the Privacy Act?
May I request records pertaining to another individual?
What if I want the records of a deceased individual?
What if I am not a US citizen or permanent resident alien and I want records
about myself?
How do I decide which Act - the Freedom of Information Act or the Privacy Act
- pertains to the records I want?

About State Department Records

                                                     Return to top of page

   What is a record?

     According to 44 United States Code 3301, records are "all books,
     papers, maps, photographs, machine-readable materials, or other
     documentary materials regardless of physical form or
     characteristics, made or received by an agency of the United States
     Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction
     of public business, and preserved or appropriate for preservation by
     that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the
     organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures,
     operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the
     informational value of data in them." Return

   What kind of records can I obtain from the State Department?

     Through the FOIA and Executive Order 12958, you may request access
     to records that document (1) the formulation and execution of U.S.
     Foreign policy and (2) the administration and operations of the
     Department of State and its missions abroad. For information on
     State Department records go to:
     FAM (Foreign Affairs Manual), Foreign Affairs Regulation, 1 FAM -
     for description of the organization and functions of the Department
     Department of State Records - for a listing of records by bureau or
     office
     Government Information Locator Service (GILS)

     Through the Privacy Act, you may request access to records about
     yourself, if you are a U.S. Citizen or permanent resident alien,
     that are kept in name-retrievable form by the Department of State.
     These records include, for example, visa, consular, personnel,
     medical, security, and administrative. For information on
     name-retrievable records, see Government Printing Office's Privacy
     Act Issuances, 1995 & 1997 Compilation. Return

   Does the State Department keep all of its records?

     No. Records no longer needed by an office, are destroyed or retired
     in accordance with a Records Disposition Schedule approved by the
     National Archives and Records Administration.

     Permanent records will be retired to an agency storage facility or a
     Federal Records Center and eventually transferred to the National
     Archives, which is responsible for providing public access to the
     permanent records of the Federal Government.

     Temporary records will be destroyed either in the office or after
     they have been retired. By law, no records can be destroyed without
     an approved Records Disposition Schedule. Return

   What is a Records Disposition Schedule?

     A records disposition schedule identifies categories of records
     created and maintained by the agency, whose final disposition has
     been approved by NARA. The schedule provides mandatory instructions
     for what to do with records (and non-record materials) no longer
     needed for current Government business. Return

   What is the difference between a permanent and a temporary record?

     A permanent record is one that NARA has appraised (through a records
     disposition schedule) as having sufficient historical or other value
     to warrant continued preservation. A temporary record is one which
     NARA has approved for disposal either immediately or after a
     specified period of time. Return

   When are State Department records transferred to the National Archives?

     Under Executive Order 12958, permanent records must be reviewed,
     declassified and transferred to the National Archives at 25 years of
     age. These records then become the property of the National
     Archives. For requests for such records, see the Introduction of the
     Gopher Menu maintained by NARA. It gives directions for retrieving
     documents from NARA. For more information on State Department
     records at the National Archives, see our Records at the National
     Archives and the National Archives and Records Administration web
     site. Return

   Are all records released when they become 25 years old?

     No. Certain categories of information may be protected from
     disclosure beyond 25 years, for example, information which would
     cause an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, privileged trade
     secrets, commercial and financial information, and national security
     information classified under an executive order. Return

   What is "classified" information?

     Information about the national defense or foreign relations of the
     United States which requires protection against unauthorized
     disclosure may be "classified" under the terms of Executive Order
     12958 (E.O. 12958). Classified records contain such information,
     appropriately identified and marked according to Parts One and Two
     of E.O. 12958. Access to classified information requires a security
     clearance and a need to know. Return

   How are State Department records organized?

     State Department records are organized into three basic file series:
     the Central Foreign Policy file, Post files, and Lot files. The
     Central Foreign Policy file contains all telegrams sent or received
     by the State Department and selected internal memoranda, written
     correspondence, diplomatic notes, congressionals, memorandums of
     conversations and documents from other agencies. Post files are the
     records of U.S. Embassies, consulates and other diplomatic missions
     abroad. Lot files are collections of records generated by offices in
     the Department of State. Return

   What is the official filing system for State Department’s records?

     The Department’s official filing system, called Traffic Analysis by
     Geography and Subject (TAGS) and Terms provides an easy to use,
     subject-oriented means to store and find information. Return


About the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

                                                     Return to top of page

   What is the purpose of FOIA?

     The FOIA gives a person the right to request access to Federal
     records. However, some records may be protected from release,
     including but not limited to:

     a. National security records which have been classified under
         an executive order, and remain classified;
     b. Records the disclosure of which would constitute an
         unwarranted invasion of and individual's personal privacy;
     c. Records compiled for law enforcement purposes;
     d. Records protected from release by statute

     For the complete list of FOIA exemptions, go to the Text of the 1996
     FOIA. Return

   How do I make a FOIA request?

     FOIA requests must be made in writing. You may FAX (202-261-8580) or
     mail -- but not E-mail -- your request. Describe the records you are
     seeking as clearly and precisely as you can (See the Department's
     regulations concerning FOIA requests at 22CFR171.10-17). Include a
     daytime telephone number in case we need to contact you. State your
     willingness to pay the applicable fees or provide a justification to
     support a fee waiver. Write "Freedom of Information Act Request" on
     the envelope and send it to: Margaret P. Grafeld, Information and
     Privacy Coordinator, U.S. Department of State, A/RPS/IPS, SA-2,
     Washington, D.C. 20522-6001. If you want help with your request
     letter, go to Making A FOIA Request. Return

   Will I be charged for making a FOIA request?

     The State Department is entitled to charge a fee to recover the
     costs of document search, duplication and review. Under certain
     conditions, documents may be furnished without charge or at a
     reduced charge. For determining when fees may be waived or reduced,
     go to 22 CFR 171.15. Return

   What happens when the State Department receives my FOIA request?

     The State Department will respond to your request within 20 working
     days of its receipt. The response will advise you of the date of
     receipt, the case number assigned to your request, and whether or
     not the records you are seeking are under the Department's control.
     Whenever possible, the records requested will be furnished within 20
     working days. In general, requests are sorted according to the
     amount of work or time involved in responding to them, so that
     relatively simpler requests may be processed more quickly. If a
     request presents unusual circumstances -- such as the volume of the
     records sought -- you will be notified and offered an opportunity to
     limit the scope of your request in order to facilitate its
     processing. You will receive a substantive response when your
     request is fulfilled, denied in part or denied in full. If your
     request is complex, you may receive more than one substantive
     response. For further information about processing FOIA requests, go
     to 22 CFR 171, Subpart B. Return

   Will I receive documents dating up to the date when the search is
   conducted for the records I requested?

     No. The Department has established that the cutoff date for
     retrieving records is the date of the initial request letter. Only
     records that were created on or before the date of your request will
     be retrieved. This makes the process manageable for the Department,
     and keeps the requester's costs down as well. Many requests require
     multiple searches, and searches are conducted on a first-come,
     first-serve basis within each track. Extending the cutoff date to
     the date of each search would result in multiple cutoff dates, and
     confusion all around. It is quicker and more efficient to use one
     date as a cutoff for retrieving documents. This also means that
     requesters who want to "update" a request in order to receive
     records created after the date of the initial request must file a
     new request. Notice of this procedure is sent to each requester in
     the Department's acknowledgment letter. It will soon be included in
     the Department's FOIA regulations. Return

   Will I receive all the records I've asked for?

     It is the State Department’s policy to release information to the
     maximum extent possible. If some information must be deleted from a
     record which is released in part, the amount of information deleted
     will be indicated at the place where the deletion is made. If an
     entire record is withheld, you will be informed of the volume --
     number of documents, for example -- which has not been released.
     Return

   Can I appeal a decision of denial of access?

     Yes, if your request is denied or material is withheld, you may file
     an appeal. For a description of the appeals process and a sample
     letter appealing a decision to withhold material, go to Appealing a
     FOIA or Privacy Decision or 22 CFR 171, Subpart B. Return

   Can I appeal a decision not to waive or reduce fees?

     Yes, for a description of the appeals process and a sample letter
     appealing a decision not to waive or reduce fees, go to Appealing A
     FOIA or Privacy Decision. Also refer to 22 CFR 171, Subpart B, for
     State Department regulations. Return


About the Privacy Act

                                                     Return to top of page

   What is the purpose of the Privacy Act?

     The Privacy Act is a Records Management act that provides safeguards
     against invasion of personal privacy through the misuse of records
     by Federal agencies. Congress passed the Act in 1974 to establish
     controls over what personal information is collected, maintained,
     used and disseminated by the Federal government. The Act applies to
     records about individuals maintained by agencies in the executive
     branch of the Federal government. The Privacy Act guarantees three
     primary rights: 1) the right to see records about oneself, subject
     to Privacy Act exemption; 2) the right to request the amendment of
     records that are not accurate, relevant, timely or complete; and 3)
     the right to bring civil action against the Department for
     violations of the statute -- including permitting others to see
     another person's records, unless specifically permitted by the act.
     Return

   What records can be requested under the Privacy Act?

     The Privacy Act is concerned essentially with name-retrievable
     records systems. Examples of such systems would include passport,
     medical, and employment records. For a description of State
     Department systems of records maintained on individuals, go to the
     Government Printing Office's Privacy Act Issuances, 1995 & 1997
     Compilation. For the State Department's regulations concerning
     Privacy Act requests, go to Subpart C of 22 CFR 171. Return

   Who can request records under the Privacy Act?

     You must be a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted
     for permanent residence to the U.S. to make a request for Privacy
     Act records. Return

   How do I request my own records?

     You do not need a special form. Make your request in writing and
     provide your full name and date and place of birth. Provide other
     names you have used. Describe the records you believe the Department
     of State maintains about you and why. Give an approximate time
     period if you are asking about a specific event. Sign and date the
     letter, and mail it (do not fax it) to:

     Margaret P. Grafeld, Information & Privacy Coordinator
     U.S. Department of State
     A/RPS/IPS, SA-2
     Washington, D.C. 20522-6001
     Return

   Will there be a charge for documents obtained under the Privacy Act?

     No. The Department of State does not charge for initial release of
     documents under the Privacy Act request. However, the Department may
     charge $0.25 per page for subsequent copies. Return

   May I request records pertaining to another individual?

     Yes, you may request records concerning another individual, with
     their written permission. This kind of request is called a "third
     party request". A third party request that is accompanied by proper
     written consent will be processed as if it were made by the first
     party. Requests not accompanied by written consent may result in a
     denial of access pursuant to subsection (b)(6) of the FOIA. The
     person’s written consent requires an original signature that must be
     notarized.

     or

     If you are unable to visit a notary, you may instead have the
     individual attest to the truth and correctness of the authorization
     by adding the following statement to the consent form:

     "I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United
     States of America, that the foregoing is true and correct."

     This statement is then signed by the individual who the records
     pertain to, and must be an original, not a copy or fax. Return

   What if I want the records of a deceased individual?

     You may request the records of a deceased person if you can provide
     proof of death. You should provide the person’s date and place of
     birth and a copy of the death certificate or a newspaper obituary.
     You should explain the type of material you seek and why you think
     that the Department of State would have records. Your request will
     be processed under provisions of the FOIA. Return

   What if I am not a US citizen or permanent resident alien and I want
   records about myself?

     You may request records concerning yourself, even if you are not a
     US citizen, but your request will be processed under the Freedom of
     Information Act -- not Privacy. Return

   How do I decide which Act - the Freedom of Information Act or the
   Privacy Act - pertains to the records I want?

     You do not have to make that decision. When a request is received at
     the State Department, the Freedom of Information and Privacy Act
     staff members will process your request according to the act that
     assures the greatest access permitted by law. Return

   *For information about what happens when the Department receives your
   Privacy Act request, and making an appeal, refer to the appropriate FAQ
   in the About the Freedom of Information (FOIA) section above or go to
   22 CFR 171 in the Reference section.

   Click anyone of the buttons below to get more specific information..

   FOIA information page     Privacy page      FOIA request process page  Appeal
                                                                         process
                         Fee for services page   Exception codes page


   Return to top of page

    FOIA Home | About FOIA | FAQs | Other Sites | Reference | Site Search
    Document Collections | Disclaimers & Preferences | Contact Webmaster

                          Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
                          Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
            Note: This link will send you to the Adobe home page.

                         This site is 508 Compliant.
