http://www.mhc.gov/mandate.html


   [mhc2p1a.gif]        [mhc2p1b.gif] [mhc2p1c.gif]
   [USEMAP:mhc2p1d.gif] [mhc2p1e.gif] [mhc2p1f.gif]
   [USEMAP:mhc2p1g.gif] [mhc2p1h.gif] [mhc2p1i.gif]


   [mhchp1c.gif] Legislative Mandate [mhchp1link1-divide.gif] Mission
   Statement [mhchp1d.gif] [mhchp1e.gif]
   Commissioners [mhchp1link3-divide.gif] Task Forces
   [mhchp1link4-divide.gif] News Room [mhchp1f.gif]
   [mhchp1g.gif]
                            [mhclink6.gif]

   Announcing Creation of Commission

   Announcing Commission’s First Meeting

   Legislative Mandate

   The Millennial Housing Commission was established as part of Public Law
   106-74 , the relevant section of which is provided below:

    a. ESTABLISHMENT—
       There is hereby established a commission to be known as the
       Millennial Housing Commission (in this section referred to as the
       ‘Commission’).
    b. STUDY—
       The duty of the Commission shall be to conduct a study that
       examines, analyzes, and explores—
         1. the importance of housing, particularly affordable housing
            which includes housing for the elderly, to the infrastructure
            of the United States;
         2. the various possible methods for increasing the role of the
            private sector in providing affordable housing in the United
            States, including the effectiveness and efficiency of such
            methods; and
         3. whether the existing programs of the Department of Housing and
            Urban Development work in conjunction with one another to
            provide better housing opportunities for families,
            neighborhoods, and communities, and how such programs can be
            improved with respect to such purpose.
    c. MEMBERSHIP—
         1. NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT—
            The Commission shall be composed of 22 members, appointed not
            later than January 1, 2000, as follows:
              A. Two co-chairpersons appointed by—
                   i. one co-chairperson appointed by a committee
                      consisting of the chairmen of the Subcommittees on
                      the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and
                      Urban Development, and Independent Agencies of the
                      Committees on Appropriations of the House of
                      Representatives and the Senate, and the chairman of
                      the Subcommittee on Housing and Community
                      Opportunities of the House of Representatives and
                      the chairman of the Subcommittee on Housing and
                      Transportation of the Senate; and
                  ii. one co-chairperson appointed by a committee
                      consisting of the ranking minority members of the
                      Subcommittees on the Departments of Veterans Affairs
                      and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent
                      Agencies of the Committees on Appropriations of the
                      House of Representatives and the Senate, and the
                      ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on
                      Housing and Community Opportunities of the House of
                      Representatives and the ranking minority member of
                      the Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation of
                      the Senate.
              B. Ten members appointed by the Chairman and Ranking
                 Minority Member of the Committee on Appropriations of the
                 House of Representatives and the Chairman and Ranking
                 Minority Member of the Committee on Banking and Financial
                 Services of the House of Representatives.
              C. Ten members appointed by the Chairman and Ranking
                 Minority Member of the Committee on Appropriations of the
                 Senate and the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
                 the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
                 the Senate.
         2. QUALIFICATIONS—
            Appointees should have proven expertise in directing,
            assemblying, or applying capital resources from a variety of
            sources to the successful development of affordable housing or
            the revitalization of communities, including economic and job
            development.
         3. VACANCIES—
            Any vacancy on the Commission shall not affect its powers and
            shall be filled in the manner in which the original
            appointment was made.
         4. CHAIRPERSONS—
            The members appointed pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) shall serve
            as co-chairpersons of the Commission.
         5. PROHIBITION OF PAY—
            Members of the Commission shall serve without pay.
         6. TRAVEL EXPENSES—
            Each member of the Commission shall receive travel expenses,
            including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with
            sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
         7. QUORUM—
            A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
            quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
         8. MEETINGS—
            The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairpersons.
    d. DIRECTOR AND STAFF—
         1. DIRECTOR—
            The Commission shall have a Director who shall be appointed by
            the Chairperson. The Director shall be paid at a rate not to
            exceed the rate of basic pay payable for level V of the
            Executive Schedule.
         2. STAFF—
            The Commission may appoint personnel as appropriate. The staff
            of the Commission shall be appointed subject to the provisions
            of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
            competitive service, and shall be paid in accordance with the
            provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of
            that title relating to classification and General Schedule pay
            rates.
         3. EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS—
            The Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services
            under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at
            rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of
            the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable for the General
            Schedule.
         4. STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES—
            Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal
            department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any
            of the personnel of that department or agency to the
            Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this
            Act.
    e. POWERS—
         1. HEARINGS AND SESSIONS—
            The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this
            section, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take
            testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers
            appropriate.
         2. POWERS OF MEMBERS AND AGENTS—
            Any member or agent of the Commission may, if authorized by
            the Commission, take any action which the Commission is
            authorized to take by this section.
         3. OBTAINING OFFICIAL DATA—
            The Commission may secure directly from any department or
            agency of the United States information necessary to enable it
            to carry out this Act. Upon request of the Chairpersons of the
            Commission, the head of that department or agency shall
            furnish that information to the Commission.
         4. GIFTS, BEQUESTS, AND DEVISES—
            The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts,
            bequests, or devises of services or property, both real and
            personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work
            of the Commission. Gifts, bequests, or devises of money and
            proceeds from sales of other property received as gifts,
            bequests, or devises shall be deposited in the Treasury and
            shall be available for disbursement upon order of the
            Commission.
         5. MAILS—
            The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
            manner and under the same conditions as other departments and
            agencies of the United States.
         6. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES—
            Upon the request of the Commission, the Administrator of
            General Services shall provide to the Commission, on a
            reimbursable basis, the administrative support services
            necessary for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities
            under this section.
         7. CONTRACT AUTHORITY—
            The Commission may contract with and compensate Government and
            private agencies or persons for services, without regard to
            section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5).
    f. REPORT—
       The Commission shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and
       Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and
       the Committees on Appropriations and Banking, Housing, and Urban
       Affairs of the Senate a final report not later than March 1, 2002.
       The report shall contain a detailed statement of the findings and
       conclusions of the Commission with respect to the study conducted
       under subsection (b), together with its recommendations for
       legislation, administrative actions, and any other actions the
       Commission considers appropriate.
    g. TERMINATION—
       The Commission shall terminate on June 30, 2002. Section
       14(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.;
       relating to the termination of advisory committees) shall not apply
       to the Commission.

   MHC Staff | Legislative Mandate | Mission Statement | Commissioners |
                          Task Forces | News Room
     Millennial Housing Commission, 800 N. Capitol St. NW, Suite 680,
                           Washington, DC 20002
   Tel: (202) 565-0060 | Fax: (202) 565-9544 | webmaster email address:
                             webmaster@mhc.gov
