http://www.wstf.nasa.gov/WSSH/Default.htm

   Site Index/Search
   About WSTF
   Site Closure Status
   Divider for Navigation menu
   Environmental
   Rocket Propulsion
   Materials
   Hazards Assessment
   Oxygen Systems
   Space Flight Hardware
   Launch & Landing
   Aerospace Services
   TDRSS
   divider bar for navigation menu
   Enabling Capabilities
   Doing Business
   with WSTF
   Educational Outreach
   Professional Associations
   Employment

   divider bar for navigation menu

   Johnson Space Center
   Home Page
   WSTF Internal Web


                              White Sands Space

                          White Sands Space Harbor

     White Sands Test Facility (WSTF) operates the White Sands Space
     Harbor (WSSH), the primary training area for space shuttle pilots
     flying practice approaches and landings in the shuttle-training
     aircraft (STA) and T-38 chase aircraft. The STA is a Gulfstream II
     aircraft modified to mimic the flight characteristics and
     instrumentation on the shuttle and provides a realistic simulation
     of the shuttle's landing from high altitudes to touchdown. WSSH is
     located approximately 30 miles (50 kilometers) west of Alamogordo,
     NM, on the U.S. Army White Sands Missile Range.

                                                            Different View

   Shuttle Training Aircraft and Chase Aircraft Practicing Approaches

     The WSSH runway facilities are located in Akalai Flats, a site
     formerly known as Northup Strip. In 1976, NASA selected Northrup
     Strip as the site for pilot training. A second runway was added, and
     in 1979 both lakebed runways were lengthened, allowing WSSH to serve
     as a shuttle backup landing facility. The facility was used during
     the landing of STS-3 in March 1982. After the STS-3 landing, WSSH
     became an emergency landing site, and the U.S. Congress designated
     the facility as the "White Sands Space Harbor."

                                 Larger View
                 Space Shuttle Columbia Landing at WSSH, 1982

     For additional information contact Robert Mitchell, (505) 524-5774.

                        White Sands Space Harbor Home
      The Runways | The Navigational Aids | Approach and Runway Lighting
                  Control Facilities | Deservice Facilities

          [ISMAP:footer3.gif]-Link to doing business with WSTF Page

                    Web Accessibility and Policy Notices
       Responsible NASA Official: Jim Krupovage  Curator: Judy Corbett
                           Last Updated: 12/12/2001
