http://www.nwr.noaa.gov/1press/press01.htm

   back arrow Fisheries Northwest Region Homepage


                      National Marine Fisheries Service
                National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration

                  Welcome to the Northwest Regional Office
                   Search for: ____________________ Submit

                                    space

                            NMFS Northwest Region
                            Recent News Releases
                  _________________________________________

                            2001 2000 Prior Years

   2001

   Oregon Coast Coho Decision
   November 9, 2001 - The Administration will focus its energy and
   resources on rebuilding salmon runs rather than appeal the court's
   decision

   NOAA FISHERIES APPROVES PROGRAM TO MAKE WEST COAST SABLEFISH HARVEST
   SAFER, MORE EFFICIENT
   August 23, 2001 - West Coast commercial fishermen harvesting sablefish
   may find their job safer, more efficient and a bit more profitable,
   thanks to important changes to how the fishery is managed, the National
   Marine Fisheries Service (NOAA fisheries) announced today.   Read
   more  38kb PDF file.   Federal Register Notice  61kb PDF file.

   NOAA Fisheries To Review Declines In Northwest Orca Population
   August 7, 2001 - The National Marine Fisheries Service (NOAA
   fisheries), an agency of the Commerce Department's National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), announced today that it will study
   the reasons behind a decline in the number of killer whales that
   congregate in Washington state's Puget Sound and Strait of Juan de Fuca
   in summertime.
      Read more   210kb PDF file.   Question and Answer Sheet  285kb PDF
   File
     The petition  542kb PDF File   Federal Register Notice  42kb PDF File

   NOAA DEVELOPS NEW INTERNET TRACKING OF PERMITS FOR ENDANGERED SALMON
   SPECIES IN NORTHWEST New Internet System Based on Commerce Secretary
   Don Evans' Initiative to Improve Customer Service
   June 27, 2001 - The Commerce Department's National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) National Marine Fisheries Service
   (NOAA fisheries) today announced the roll out of a new Internet-based
   pilot tracking system. The system will allow applicants to easily check
   on the progress of their permits as they move through the Endangered
   Species Act consultation process between the U.S. Army Corps of
   Engineers (COE) and NOAA fisheries Northwest Region.   Read more  17kb
   PDF file.

   Two Fishing Plans, Produced Under New Federal Guidelines, Will Allow
   Limited Harvest of Puget Sound's Chum, Chinook
   June 12, 2001 - The National Marine Fisheries Service, an agency of the
   Commerce Department's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
   has accepted two fishing plans that allow Washington State and all 17
   Puget Sound treaty Indian tribes a limited harvest of Hood Canal summer
   chum and Puget Sound chinook salmon. Read more

   Fisheries Service Says No ESA Protection Needed for Puget Sound's
   Herring and Rockfishes.
   April 2, 2001 - The National Marine Fisheries Service said today that
   Pacific herring and three species of rockfish, all found in Puget
   Sound, do not need federal protection under the Endangered Species Act.
   Read more

   Fisheries Service Determines that ESA Listing Not Warranted for Klamath
   Mountains Province Steelhead.
   March 30, 2001 - The National Marine Fisheries Service said today a
   population of steelhead salmon from southern Oregon and Northern
   California is among the more abundant in the region, making federal
   protection not needed. Read more

   Willamette Spring Chinook Fishery Management and Evaluation Plan
   Approved
   March 7, 2001 - NOAA's National Marine Fisheries Service has approved
   an innovative Oregon salmon plan. According to the Commerce Department
   agency and state officials, the plan will help recover Willamette Basin
   spring chinook, yet allow fishermen to catch a much higher number of
   hatchery-produced chinook than in the past. Read more

   Fisheries Service Issues Draft Environmental Assessment on Makah Gray
   Whale Hunt, Sets Public Hearing
   January 12, 2001 - The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's National Marine Fisheries Service has issued a draft
   environmental assessment that looks at the environmental effects of a
   gray whale hunt off the Washington coast. It also lays out a range of
   alternatives under which the Makah Indian tribe might continue its gray
   whale hunt for the next two years. The draft is a result of a federal
   appeals court decision last year that set aside an earlier
   environmental assessment. Under the National Environmental Policy Act,
   federal agencies are required to analyze their actions with respect to
   the environment. Read more

   2000

   Federal Caucus Releases Comprehensive Columbia-Snake River Salmon Plan
   December 21, 2000 - A team of nine federal agencies today released a
   long-term strategy to recover threatened and endangered fish in the
   Columbia Basin. It calls for significant habitat improvements in the
   Columbia estuary and its tributaries and changes in the hatchery
   system, while leaving the four lower Snake River dams in place. Read
   more

   Fisheries Service Determines ESA Listing Not Warranted for Three Puget
   Sound Fish Species
   November 22, 2000 - The National Marine Fisheries Service announced
   that it has made a final decision that Endangered Species Act listings
   are not warranted for Pacific hake, Pacific cod, and walleye pollock
   populations from Puget Sound, Washington. These are the first of
   several determinations that will address the ESA status of seven marine
   fish species in Puget Sound. Read more

   Federal Fisheries Agency to Review Status of Lower Columbia Coho
   November 6, 2000 - The National Marine Fisheries Service is reopening a
   biological review of lower Columbia River coho salmon, a step that
   could lead to its listing under the Endangered Species Act within two
   years. The agency had classified this population as a "candidate" in
   1995, saying although ESA-protection was not then warranted, its status
   would be reviewed as time and resources permitted. Read more

   Commencement Bay Trustees and Partners Celebrate Habitat Restoration
   Projects
   October 11, 2000 - NOAA today joined regional tribes, state agencies
   and other federal natural resource agencies to celebrate almost a
   decade of progress to restore habitat in Tacomas Commencement Bay. The
   event, hosted by the city of Tacoma and its port, highlighted four
   habitat restoration projects designed to restore critical urban marsh
   around the bay. Read more

   Federal Agencies Propose Comprehensive Salmon Recovery Strategy for
   Pacific Northwest
   July 27, 2000 - A team of federal agencies today proposed a
   comprehensive long-term strategy for restoring threatened and
   endangered salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River Basin of the
   Pacific Northwest. The agencies released two draft documents outlining
   actions to be taken by the federal government and proposing additional
   steps by tribal, state and local governments, which together would
   prevent the extinction and foster the recovery of 12 salmon populations
   currently protected under the Endangered Species Act. Read more

   Federal Agency Unveils Innovative ESA Salmon Rules
   June 20, 2000 - Saying it was instituting the most significant
   innovation in how the Endangered Species Act is implemented since it
   began listing West Coast salmon in 1991, NOAAs National Marine
   Fisheries Service today unveiled its 4(d) rules to protect 14
   populations of salmon and steelhead from California's Central Valley to
   Washington's Puget Sound. Read more

   Science Team Appointed to Set Recovery Standards for Chinook, Steelhead
   and Chum in Willamette, Lower Columbia
   May 31, 2000 - A group of ten scientists has been appointed to set
   biological standards to measure recovery efforts for salmon and
   steelhead in the Willamette and Lower Columbia rivers, the National
   Marine Fisheries Service announced today. The technical team is the
   second of what are expected to be eight science groups that will
   eventually set recovery standards for all 26 West Coast salmon and
   steelhead populations protected under the Endangered Species Act. Read
   more

   Science Review Panel Appointed to Guide West Coast Salmon Recovery
   May 3, 2000 - The federal agency charged with restoring more than two
   dozen populations of West Coast salmon and steelhead listed under the
   Endangered Species Act has appointed a panel of scientists to guide
   technical work on the fishes recovery over the next several years, it
   announced today. Read more

   West Coast's First Salmon Recovery Team Appointed; Will Examine Puget
   Sound Chinook, Chum, Sockeye
   April 4, 2000 - The West Coast's first salmon recovery team has been
   appointed and charged with setting biological standards for measuring
   recovery efforts for Puget Sound chinook, chum and sockeye, the
   National Marine Fisheries Service announced today. The eight-person
   group is formally known as a technical recovery team. Read more

   Three Additional Public Hearings Announced on Proposed Regulations to
   Protect Salmon and Steelhead
   February 9, 2000 - The National Marine Fisheries Service is inviting
   public input on an important set of rules to begin rebuilding West
   Coast populations of salmon and steelhead. The proposed regulations are
   known as "4(d) rules," from the section of the Endangered Species Act
   (ESA) that authorizes their use. Read more

   Commerce Secretary Announces West Coast Groundfish Fishery Failure
   January 19, 2000 - West Coast groundfish fishermen, who face a steep
   drop in their harvest this year, are a step closer to getting federal
   relief with Commerce Secretary William M. Daleys determination today of
   a commercial fishery failure for their industry. The official
   determination comes after a sharp decline in catches of groundfish --
   principally a wide variety of rockfishes -- from California to
   Washington. Read more

          line
   Contact Information

   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

   National Marine Fisheries Service - NW Region

   (206) 526-6613


   Privacy Notice |  Disclaimer
