http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/coastal.html

   text only, no javascript, no css page
   #text-only version

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Hurricane Damage to Coastal Forests
   Project Chiefs:  Dr. C. Edward Proffitt and Thomas Doyle, Ph. D.
   Phone:
   Email:Tom_Doyle@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   click for larger image click for larger image Coastal and island
   forests on the Caribbean coast of Honduras suffered direct impacts due
   to the passage of Hurricane Mitch (October 27 - 29 1998). The hurricane
   lingered in the vicinity of the island of Guanaja for several days; as
   a result of prolonged high-intensity winds (up to 150 mph) the island
   lost most of its pine trees (left image) due to defoliation and
   uprooting. Local communities and businesses (right image) were also
   destroyed. The island also lost almost all of its mangroves due to a
   combination of wind and wave shear as well as prolonged flooding
   stress.
   Forests on the island of Roatan were also damaged from the high winds
   associated with the passage of the hurricane. Forests on the mainland
   also received impacts, although to a lesser degree.
   Coastal forests represent a very important ecosystem, offering many
   valuable environmental and economic services such as aquifer recharge,
   flood protection, shoreline protection, carbon storage, timber and
   habitat for native, endangered and commercially-important animal
   species. The value of these services makes it important to manage
   coastal forests for long-term sustainability.
   The documentation of impacts to coastal forests due to Hurricane Mitch
   provides an important reference to evaluate recovery and restoration.
   The ability to predict future storm-related impacts is also an
   important tool for managing natural resources in this zone, by
   identifying areas of high sensitivity or areas where restoration may be
   more critical.. Tropical storms and hurricanes will continue to
   threaten the coast of Honduras, and the ability to predict impacts to
   the coastal environment will help natural resource managers and
   decision-makers elaborate plans for the successful sustainable
   management of the natural resources therein.
   Objectives
   1) To document post-hurricane damage to coastal forests and shoreline
   vegetation in the Bay Islands and along the north coast of Honduras.
   2) To correlate damage expression and extent of downed and defoliated
   forest resources in relation to Hurricane Mitch storm path and wind
   fields.
   3) To calibrate a hurricane wind simulation model (HURASIM) to the
   damage to coastal forests and shoreline vegetation in the Bay Islands
   and along the north coast of Honduras.
   Approach
    A. Aerial videography click for larger image
          + Low-altitude video capture of damage to coastal forests and
            shoreline vegetation:
          + Bay Islands, Honduras
          + Roatán - eastern end shoreline
          + Guanaja - shoreline and interior slope
          + North Coast, Honduras mainland
          + La Ceiba to Mosquito Coast - shoreline
    B. Image analysis
          + Forest Type and Density
          + Windfall Angles by Tree and Scene
          + Tree Heights and Diameters
          + Greenness Index: Percent Canopy Recovery
          + Damage Class Assessment
    C. Damage correlation
          + Critical Wind Speed Relations
          + Forest Type Susceptibility
          + Effect of Orographic Sheltering
          + Critical Wind Angle Assessment
          + Correlation with Simulated Wind Angle
          + Wind Funneling Effects of Landform
    D. HURASIM model
          + Tracks hurricane movement and circulation
          + Predicts site-specific wind speed profiles
          + Derives site-specific wind angles
          + Creates composite maps of hurricane force

   Lead Principal Investigators
   Thomas Doyle, Ph.D., USGS BRD (Tom_Doyle@usgs.gov)
   Thomas C. Michot, Ph.D. USGS BRD (Tommy_Michot@usgs.gov)
   Associated Investigators
   Jeffrey Balmat, B.Sc., JCWS
   Garret Girod, B.Sc.
   Benjamin Handley, B.Sc., JCWS
   Scott Kemmerer, B.Sc., JCWS
   Marcus Melder
   Fred Roetker, Ph.D.
   Jason Sullivan
   Cooperating Agencies
   SERNA: Lic. Adrian Oviedo
   Source Data
   click for larger image click for larger image Interpreted Aerial
   Videography
   Forest Type
   Windthrow Angles of Downed Trees
   Density of Impacted Forest
   Height of Downed Trees
   Simulated Hurricane Wind Profiles
   Predicted Wind Speed
   Projected Wind Angle
   Preliminary Results
   Products
   1) Final report in the USGS Technical Report; Bay Islands, Honduras
   2) Simulations of HURASIM model
   Locations
   Bay Islands, Honduras
   Data
   Project Tour
   Bay Islands, Honduras
   Guanaja:
   Damage to pine forest             click for larger image
   Damage to tropical montane forest click for larger image
   Damage to mangrove forest         click for larger image
   Aerial flight over Guanaja        click for larger image


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/coastal.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Tuesday, December 04, 2001
