http://www.publicaffairs.noaa.gov/oceanreport/

      Turning to the Sea: America’s Ocean Future

      “We must continue the critical dialogue that has begun and build
   together across party, regional, economic, and other interests a
   comprehensive oceans agenda for the 21st century. . . . We have to make
   this an American issue that transcends party and other philosophical
   differences, that is at the core of our own humanity and our obligation
   to our children and our grandchildren.”
   — President William Jefferson Clinton
   NATIONAL OCEAN REPORT:
   OCEAN POLICY AND ACTION FOR THE 21ST CENTURY

   At the National Ocean Conference last year in Monterey, California,
   President Clinton directed the United States Cabinet to report back
   with recommendations for a comprehensive ocean policy to guide U.S.
   federal efforts in the 21st century. In a report presented September 2,
   1999 to Vice President Al Gore, entitled "Turning to the Sea:
   American's Ocean Future," the Cabinet recommends nearly 150 actions in
   25 key areas to protect, restore, and explore America's ocean
   resources.

   To oversee implementation of the Cabinet recommendations, the Vice
   President announced a new high-level Oceans Report Task Force. The Task
   Force will prioritize the recommendations, appoint lead agencies for
   implementation of key recommendations, and meet quarterly to review
   progress. The Task Force will be co-chaired by the Chair of the Council
   on Environmental Quality and the Deputy National Security Advisor and
   will include high-level representatives of federal agencies with
   responsibility for ocean affairs.

      Contents
      Introduction
      Sustaining the Economic Benefits of the Oceans
      Marine Transportation
      Safe Navigation
      Coastal Tourism
      Coastal Communities
      Domestic Fisheries
      International Fisheries
      Aquaculture
      Biotechnology
      Offshore Oil and Gas
      Strengthening Global Security
      The Law of the Sea Convention
      Freedom of Navigation
      Maritime Law Enforcement
      Protecting Marine Resources
      Submerged Heritage Resources
      Coral Reefs
      Estuaries
      Marine Protected Species
      Marine Protected Areas
      Ocean and Coastal Habitats
      Water Quality
      Nonindigenous Species
      Marine Debris
      Discovering the Oceans
      Ocean Education
      Ocean Observations
      Ocean Research
      Ocean and Coastal Exploration


     "Oceans are critical, not just to our economy; not just to our food
   supply; not just to America's trade and security; but to the fabric of
     life itself. Those dark-blue waters are perhaps the single greatest
          natural treasure on God's Earth. —Vice President Al Gore

   To request hard copies of the report please e-mail, call or fax your
   request to:

   Robert Hansen
   Office of Public and Constituent Affairs
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   Washington, D.C. 20230
   Phone: 202-482-4594
   Fax: 202-482-3154
   Email: Robert.C.Hansen@noaa.gov

   To access the report via the Internet, please use the following links:

   A pdf version of the report, with complete graphics and text, is
   available on the NOAA Public Affairs site. The full report is a very
   large file, 18 megabytes. It will take more than an hour to download
   using a modem connection at 28.8 kps. You'll need Adobe Acrobat Reader
   to view the pdf version, which is free from Adobe.

   News Releases
   September 2, 1999 - White House News Release: REPORT FROM THE CABINET:
   AN OCEAN POLICY FOR THE 21ST CENTURY
   September 2, 1999 - Vice President Al Gore Announces New Action to Help
   Protect and Preserve U.S. Shores and Oceans
