http://www.history.noaa.gov/stories/pearlharbor.html

      NOAA History Banner

                            Return of the Ship EXPLORER
                       Following the Attack on Pearl Harbor

        NOAA History turns up many unexpected twists and turns. The
        following account by an officer in the United States Coast and
     Geodetic Survey (USC&GS), a forerunner of NOAA, details the actions
     taken and observations made by an unarmed C&GS ship in returning
     from operations in the central Pacific Ocean to the relative safety
     of Seattle, Washington, following the Japanese attack on Pearl
     Harbor. The original copy of this report resides in the NOAA Central
     Library.

                           Picture of the Explorer
   Coast and Geodetic Survey Ship EXPLORER underway. The new EXPLORER. In
                             service 1940-1968.
                    (Larger version of photo available.)

     Introduction
     On December 3, 1941, the USC&GS Ship EXPLORER was conducting
     operations northeast of Midway Island in the central Pacific Ocean.
     Approximately 800 miles to the north a great fleet of Japanese
     warships was steaming to the east making preparations for "a day
     that would live in infamy." That morning, the EXPLORER was the
     closest United States ship to that fleet. By a quirk of fate, the
     EXPLORER finished its operations in the vicinity of Midway and set
     sail for Johnston Atoll, a small island approximately 500 miles
     southwest of Honolulu, Hawaii. In doing so, it placed itself
     unwittingly in a relatively safe zone between Pearl Harbor and an
     attack on Wake Island that began December 11. During the next four
     days the small survey ship remained at the same relative distance
     from the Japanese battle fleet until reaching a point approximately
     120 nautical miles northwest of Johnston Atoll. That morning at 0630
     180th Meridian time (0830 Honolulu time) the ship's radio operator
     began hearing reports of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
     The following report by Ensign Fair J. Bryant, United States Coast
     and Geodetic Survey, describes the odyssey of the EXPLORER in
     returning to its home base of Seattle, Washington, in the early
     weeks of the Pacific War. His report to the Director of the Coast
     and Geodetic Survey captures the uncertainties, the fear, and
     sometimes near hysteria of these early days of United States
     participation in World War II.

               Picture of Fair J. Bryant in military uniform.
                    Fair J. Bryant (center) - circa 1950

     The Report -- A Survey Ship's Odyssey February 10, 1942.
     CONFIDENTIAL To: The Director
     From: Ensign Fair J. Bryant
     Subject: Return Voyage of Ship EXPLORER from Midway Islands.
     At about 1800 on December 3 the EXPLORER discontinued sounding
     operations in the vicinity of the reported shoal east of Midway
     Islands and sailed for Johnston Island. The voyage was uneventful
     until the morning of December 7. Shortly after 0630 (180th Meridian
     Time) on the 7th the radio operator on duty reported receipt of a
     radio broadcast from Honolulu to the effect that "Hawaii is under
     attack." At this time the ship was approximately 120 NW [probably
     meant 120 nautical miles NW] of Johnston Island, on course 157 True,
     speed 11.8 knots. The report was received with reserve, however, a
     message was immediately despatched to the Captain informing him of
     the report. Subsequent broadcasts soon confirmed the validity of the
     first report and at about 1000 a general broadcast by the Navy to
     all shipping, reporting the attack and advising all ships at sea to
     put into the nearest American or friendly ports, was received. The
     Honolulu radio continued on the air, directing relief measures by
     volunteer groups and advising the civilian population.
     During the remainder of the day the ship continued on course for
     Johnston Island. During the afternoon measures were taken to
     increase the safety of the ship and complement were undertaken. All
     ports and windows above deck were painted over while those below
     deck were covered with the storm shutters. Lookouts were posted
     astern and on the compass platform and the Watch Officers and
     Quartermaster took posts on the wings of the bridges where lookout
     could be maintained to best advantage. The boats were fully
     provisioned, their emergency equipment checked and navigating gear
     placed at hand. Two small depth charges were improvised, using the
     TNT carried aboard and the ship's arms, consisting of two .45 cal.
     automatic pistols and six .30 cal. rifles, were broken out, cleaned
     and loaded and placed to hand. Flashlights intended to be above deck
     were dimmed by painting over the lenses.
     The effect of these preparations was to attain a complete blackout
     of the ship, to insure the detection of a hostile submarine at the
     earliest possible moment and to have everything in readiness for
     rapid abandonment if necessary. The means available for defense were
     not hopefully regarded.
     Shortly after noon speed was reduced to about six knots, the ship
     continuing on course for Johnston Island. Since the naval radio
     there remained silent and radio broadcasts from various stations
     reporting widespread Japanese activity and success, much of it later
     proven false, continued to be received, doubt began to develop as to
     the safety of the exposed base at Johnston Island. At about 1930
     speed speed was increased to 90 RPM ( approximately 101/2 knots) and
     the ship placed on course for Honolulu, T. H. At this time the wind
     was from the northeast, force 6 to 7, the sea moderately rough and
     about ½ point on the port bow. The sky was clear save for passing
     clouds and the moon, nearly at the full, rose shortly before 9
     o'clock. No running lights were exhibited and the ship remained
     completely blacked out for the rest of the voyage. The night passed
     without event, the ship riding easily in the short seas though some
     spray was taken aboard.
     On the morning of the 8th between 0730 and 0800, 3 planes,
     apparently of the medium bomber land-based type, flying low and in
     formation were sighted some distance off to starboard. They passed
     about 2 miles off on a course which indicated that they might be en
     route from Johnston Island to Oahu and did not inspect the ship. At
     about 1400 two seaplanes of the cruiser-based type approached out of
     the sun and flew low over the ship, signalling by blinker. It was
     found impossible to reply by means of the fixed blinkers on the
     wings of the bridges so International Code flags to indicate the
     ships call letters were hoisted. Having satisfied themselves as to
     the identity of the vessel the planes made off to the southwest.
     A submarine alarm, to consist of three rings on the General Alarm,
     having previously been published, an aircraft warning system was
     instituted this day. Approach of an unidentified aircraft was
     announced over the loud speaker system and all hands cautioned to
     take cover. It was believed that the probable method of attack by
     hostile aircraft would be with fragmentation bombs and strafing with
     machine guns or light cannon. The procedure followed on the bridge
     was for the Junior Officer of the Watch to give the warning over the
     loudspeaker while the Senior Officer of the Watch observed the
     approach of the aircraft to learn their intentions and warned the
     helmsman to shift to hand steering preparatory to turning across the
     wind should they prove hostile. Code flags indicating the ship's
     call letters were kept at hand and hoisted on the approach of
     aircraft.
     The procedure established for the submarine alarm was for all hands
     not engaged in the operation of the ship to make their way to the
     superstructure deck with their life jackets prepared to abandon
     ship, while the helmsman was warned to shift to hand steering for an
     attempt to dodge and escape by zig-zagging.
     The remainder of the day and night passed without event, the weather
     remaining as before, the sea slightly rougher.
     On the morning of the 9th, during the forenoon watch two scouting
     planes of the carrier-based type approached, inspected the ship and
     departed to the northwest. At about 1400 two seaplanes of the
     carrier-based type were seen approaching the ship from directly in
     the sun. They circled the ship and continued on to the northeast.
     Planes approaching the ship invariably did so from the direction of
     the sun. With an alert lookout this is not an effective concealment
     but perhaps renders accurate anti-aircraft fire more difficult.
     During the afternoon numerous floating boxes and empty crates were
     passed. A search from the yardarm of the foremast revealed no
     indication of a ship ahead and it was concluded that the drift was
     from the Islands. After nightfall on this day gasoline carried in
     drums on the quarterdeck was jettisoned.
     As the ship now entered the danger zone around the Hawaiian Islands,
     instructions were issued by the Captain to increase speed gradually
     during the night so as to reach full speed by daybreak. By 0400 of
     December 10 speed had been increased to 115 RPM. As it was now
     beginning to be light speed was increased by small increment to
     avoid smoking until the maximum of 128 RPM (14.8 knots) was reached
     about 0530. The wind and sea continued from ahead, the seas slightly
     rougher. The ship rode easily though the heavy spray was carried
     over the bridge. At 0530 two seaplanes of the PBY type passed some
     distance off headed southwest.
     At about 0600, the ship being about 60 miles southwest of Oahu, T.
     H., an object was sighted on the water, bearing about 3 points on
     the starboard bow, about 2 miles distant. It was called to the
     attention of the Captain who was on the bridge and was identified as
     a seaplane. As the ship approached bursts of machine gun fire, to
     attract attention, were heard. Course and speed were maintained
     until the markings of the plane were identified as those of the U.
     S. Navy. As the plane came abeam course was changed to approach from
     windward. As the ship was turning the lookout on the compass deck
     reported an object on the port beam believed to be a submarine. The
     submarine alarm was sounded and the ship continued to turn away. The
     object sighted was soon identified as a floating ammunition box but
     as it was necessary to heave to in dangerous waters the crew were
     kept at abandon quarters for the time being. The ship hove to about
     400 meters to windward and the starboard whaleboat was lowered and
     pulled for the plane. Riding to a sea anchor the seaplane drifted to
     leeward so rapidly that only with considerable exertion could the
     whaleboat, under oars, be brought alongside. The aviator and his
     radio operator were taken from the plane and brought aboard.

                  Picture of plane and people in whaleboat.
   Picking up pilot and radio operator from recon airplane off Oahu Plane
      ran out of fuel and landed on water searching for Japanese fleet.
              Picked up by EXPLORER 3 days after Pearl Harbor.
                          Photo by Fair J. Bryant.
                    (Larger version of photo available.)

     The aviator, Lt. Thornton, advised that he thought it feasible to
     attempt taking the plane aboard and himself returned to make the
     lines fast. A line was passed to him and made fast but came adrift.
     A second line was made fast and held but while maneuvering the ship
     the line came taut and the plane capsized. Lt. Thornton managed to
     scramble to the bottom of the main ponton and was picked up by the
     whaleboat and returned to the ship. The plane drifted aft carrying
     the line under the stern. At this time a single seaplane of the
     cruiser based type approached the ship and seeing that the rescue
     had been effected returned towards Oahu.
     At about 0830 the attempt to salvage the plane was abandoned and the
     ship proceeded towards Honolulu. Lt. Thornton related that he had
     been forced down at about 1300 December 9, having run out of gas,
     and had lost hope of rescue when the EXPLORER was seen.
     As the ship approached Honolulu Harbor many warships were seen, a
     total of 14 being visible at one time. These were mostly destroyers
     but at least two were cruisers and one, seen at a considerable
     distance, is believed to have been an aircraft carrier. The EXPLORER
     lay off the buoyed channel while the anti-submarine net across the
     harbor entrance was being opened, then entered the harbor and, on
     instructions from the Coast Guard, berthed at Pier 12 at about 1700.
     The city and environs were completely blacked out after nightfall
     and throughout the night rifle fire, single shots and volleys
     sounded almost continuously. At about 2200 the glow of a large fire,
     apparently a canefield burning, was seen on the outskirts of town.
     Until about December 13 a scattering of rifle fire was heard
     throughout each night, apparently from nervous sentries. No evidence
     of any attempted uprising by Japanese elements of the population was
     seen though there were many rumors of overt acts having been
     attempted.
     While at Honolulu an armed guard was maintained on the ship at all
     times. During the night two officers, both armed, remained on watch
     above deck. In addition, lookouts were posted at bow and stern and
     the quartermaster stood by the gangway. The entire ship was painted
     dark gray and a crows nest, improvised from a launch sounding chair,
     was secured to the foremast below the yardarm. The pilot house
     windows were covered with steel plates with steel plate and
     arrangements for blacking out the ship improved.
     Work of repair and reconstruction was underway before the EXPLORER
     reached Honolulu. Little evidence of damage to military
     installations was visible to casual inspection. Damage was
     negligible in residential sections adjacent to military objectives
     and entirely absent in the business section. Considerable damage was
     seen at Hickam Field -- the barracks gutted by fire, severe bomb
     damage to several hangars and wreckage of planes on the flying
     field. The adjoining Fort Kamehameha was undamaged. In passing by
     Pearl Harbor wreckage of several small craft, apparently fleet
     auxiliaries was seen in the upper part of the harbor. The major
     damage reported could not be verified from that distance.
     While the EXPLORER continued at Honolulu the Liner President
     Coolidge with refugees from the Far East arrived and departed.
     Several convoys with troops and supplies arrived.
     On January 3 at 1530 the EXPLORER sailed in convoy from Honolulu for
     San Francisco. The other vessels in the convoy were the Naval
     Transport REGULUS, two Navy tankers, and two small freighters, the
     DIAMOND HEAD and MAKUANA. The convoy was escorted by a light cruiser
     and four destroyers, three of which turned back on the morning of
     January 4. The three Naval auxiliaries were armed.
     The convoy was formed in three columns of two ships each, the two
     freighters forming the center column. The Commanding Officer of the
     REGULUS was the convoy commander and the REGULUS as formation guide
     headed the right hand column. The EXPLORER followed astern of the
     REGULUS at a distance of 700 yards. The interval between adjacent
     columns was 1,000 yards.
     During the day the destroyer scouted ahead of the convoy while the
     cruiser brought up the rear. At sunset the cruiser moved up ahead
     with the destroyer and the EXPLORER fell back to zig-zag astern of
     the convoy. While zig-zagging a speed of 12 knots (104 RPM) was
     maintained.
     On moonless nights with the sky partially covered by clouds little
     difficulty was experienced in picking up the ships at distances of
     3,000 yards and more once the eyes were accustomed to darkness. On a
     dark night this required about ½ hour.
     For most of the voyage the wind was light and variable, the sea
     smooth, a waning moon, rising late. During daylight, weather
     permitting, two of the cruisers four planes were almost continually
     in the air scouting the area around the convoy. On January 9, 10,
     and 11, a long heavy swell from the northwest made landing the
     planes impossible and they were not launched.
     The voyage to the coast passed without event. On instructions from
     the Navy no information as to course, speed, disposition of the
     convoy, or position were entered in the log. Lookouts were increased
     in number and relieved every hour and three officers were assigned
     to each watch. All changes of course were signalled in advance by
     the convoy commander and were made by means of the "wheeling
     movement" in which each ship swings around keeping constant distance
     and relative bearing from the guide.
     The convoy as a whole did not zig-zag until the afternoon of January
     12. Zig-zagging was continued until sunset. During the day the
     visibility became steadily worse and by nightfall ships were barely
     visible at 800 yards. In attempting to zig-zag astern as usual the
     EXPLORER lost the convoy entirely and was able to rejoin only after
     some searching. The usual day time postion was then resumed.
     Zig-zagging was resumed at daybreak and, in conjunction with
     wheeling movements, continued until noon, apparently in order to
     kill time. Course for San Francisco Harbor was resumed about 1300
     and the convoy passed into San Francisco Bay and dispersed, the
     EXPLORER anchoring off Treasure Island about 1600.
     The EXPLORER remained at San Francisco until January 17. On that
     date, Captain Siems, having been designated convoy commander of a
     convoy for Portland and Seattle, the EXPLORER led the ships out of
     San Francisco Bay and the convoy formed up outside in five columns
     of three ships each, the EXPLORER, as formation guide, leading the
     center column.
     On this voyage difficulty was had in keeping the convoy in formation
     as the commanders of the merchant vessels showed considerable
     reluctance to close up to the designated distance and interval. The
     escort consisted of one destroyer which maintained position ahead of
     the inshore flank of the convoy.
     The voyage passed without major events. Several vessels traveling
     singly were seen and during the early morning of January 20 a
     southbound steamer passed through the convoy, guided by the escort.
     Running lights were briefly exhibited on meeting this vessel.
     Eight vessels bound for Portland, parted company off Columbia River
     entrance and the remaining seven continued for Puget Sound. On the
     afternoon of January 20 the remaining vessels of the convoy were
     formed in double column, the EXPLORER heading the left hand column
     the escorting destroyer heading the right. The Straits of Juan de
     Fuca were entered about 0200 January 21 and the convoy passed off
     Port Townsend at 0900 and broke up in some disorder, a dispersal
     point apparently not having been agreed on before hand. The EXPLORER
     continued into Puget Sound and Lake Union, berthing at Ables Dock at
     about 1630 January 21.
     Respectfully submitted:
     Fair J. Bryant Aid, U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey
     Epilogue
     The USC&GS Ship EXPLORER survive the war and spent much of its
     operational time engaged in surveys in the Aleutian Islands. This
     was not without its dangers as the Japanese had captured the island
     of Attu and Kiska in the western Aleutians. The EXPLORER came under
     fire once with no casualties from a Japanese war plane. Following
     the war, the ship continued operating in Alaskan waters until 1960
     when it was transferred to the Atlantic Coast and converted to an
     oceanographic vessel conducting studies throughout the North and
     Tropical Atlantic Ocean. The ship was decommissioned in 1967.
     Upon return to the United States, Ensign Fair J. Bryant was
     transferred to the United States Army as were many of his fellow
     C&GS officers. It was the intent of the law forming the commissioned
     service of the C&GS in 1917 that officers could be transferred to
     the other services requiring their technical expertise in the event
     of a national emergency. This law is still in effect for today's
     NOAA Corps, descendant organization of the commissioned service of
     the C&GS. During the First World War approximately ½ of C&GS
     officers were transferred into the Army, Navy, and Marines. This
     same ratio held true during the Second World War and C&GS officers
     served as Army and Marine artillery surveyors, regimental navigators
     and hydrographers for the Army amphibious engineers, Navy
     hydrographers conducting surveys in support of tactical ship
     operations and amphibious operations, cartographers and surveyors
     for the Army Air Forces, and geophysicists and scientists for Army
     and Navy scientific studies and developments. Their fellow officers
     who stayed on the home front, made tens of millions of charts for
     the Allied Forces, conducted surveys for military operations from
     Maine to Attu, and provided technical expertise in many realms for
     the defense effort.
     In December of 1944, then Major Fair J. Bryant was the survey
     officer of the 285th Field Artillery Observation Battalion. The
     observation battalions were lightly armed units that provided survey
     support for all heavy artillery and counter-battery target
     acquisition by sound and flash-ranging methods for a specific Army
     corps. On the morning of December 17, Battery B of the 285th FAOB
     was traveling to St. Vith to take up new positions. It encountered
     the lead element of a German heavy armored division that was the
     spearhead for the German attempt to split the Allied forces and
     capture a seaport at the beginning of the Battle of the Bulge. 83
     defenseless men of Battery B were executed by machine gun fire at
     what came to be known as the Malmedy Massacre. Fortunately for
     Bryant, he was with Battery A of the 285th FAOB on that particular
     day. Battery A moved down into Luxembourg and fought through the
     Battle of the Bulge. It is probable that Fair J. Bryant was one of
     the few individuals in the service of the United States that was in
     close proximity to Pearl Harbor and then ended up in the Battle of
     the Bulge. In particular, it is ironic that he was so close in time
     and space both to the attack " that shall live in infamy" and the
     Malmedy Massacre, the worst atrocity committed against American
     troops in Europe during the Second World War.

                               - Top of Page -

      spacer
   line
   Return to Home Page line
     * C&GS Stories and Tales


     line

       Publication of the NOAA Central Library and the Office of High
     Performance Computing and Communications.
     Last Updated: 06/07/01
