http://marad.dot.gov/Headlines/speeches/mtsoct18.htm

   DOT News Masthead

                                 REMARKS FOR
                       THE HONORABLE NORMAN Y. MINETA
                         SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

                       MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
                          NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
                             BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

                              OCTOBER 18, 2001
                                   1:30 PM

    Good afternoon, and thanks for this opportunity to talk with you
   again.  I also thank you for your ongoing efforts on behalf of one of
   America’s most important assets – namely, our marine transportation
   system.  As always, I will continue to rely on your good advice and
   counsel.

   When we met in Kings Point, New York, a little over six months ago, I
   sought your help in assessing whether or not America needs a marine
   counterpart to the federal statutory framework we already have in place
   for surface transportation and for aviation, TEA-21 and AIR-21
   respectively.

   I also asked you to consider ways to improve the efficiency of our
   existing MTS, within the framework of a SEA-21 or otherwise, focusing
   especially on ways of better bringing our separate landside
   transportation infrastructure together with the MTS to create true
   intermodalism for both passengers and freight.
   This Council has a unique combination of people with the skills and the
   wisdom to offer invaluable suggestions to the Department and to the
   Congress on these critical issues, and I look forward to your
   recommendations.

   However, as all of us know, the environment has changed radically since
   last we met.  The horrific attacks of September 11^th underscored the
   essential importance of a safe, stable and fully integrated
   transportation system to our economy and our national security.

   Although much of the media attention has focused on aviation safety,
   heightened security and awareness will be required from every mode of
   transportation.  None of us can afford to ignore the critical role of
   our MTS and gateway ports in the battle against terrorism…or their
   potential vulnerabilities.

   Within hours of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon,
   I authorized the Coast Guard to take actions necessary to control the
   anchorage and movement of vessels at all our major ports.  Since the
   attacks, the Coast Guard has aggressively established near shore and
   port domain awareness.

   They have also provided an offshore protective force, interdicting
   suspicious vessels before they reach U.S. shores, and I have approved
   an emergency 96-hour notice-of-arrival requirement for all ships
   entering our ports.

   The Coast Guard is currently using available information to identify
   and designate “high risk” vessels for the purpose of assigning
   additional controls and port security assets.  One aspect of these
   additional measures has involved a “Sea Marshal” ship-rider program in
   place at several ports.  The Coast Guard has done an outstanding job
   since the attacks, and I am prouder than ever to act as their Service
   Secretary.

   The entire Department of Transportation is now actively engaged in the
   fight against terrorism.  Subsequent to the September 11^th attacks, in
   addition to the two rapid response teams that examined aviation
   security, I established a National Infrastructure Security Committee,
   or NISC, to look at all modes of transportation.

   One component of the NISC is a Maritime Direct Action Group to advise
   me on port security issues generally, and on port security legislation
   pending before Congress specifically.  I expect to receive and review
   their report very soon.

   One of the very first meetings the Action Group held was with Chuck
   Raymond, who is doing such an outstanding job as chair of this group.
   And Chuck, I’d like to say again how much we at the Department, and
   indeed the entire country, benefit from your continuing leadership on
   MTS policy.

   There are a number of issues we will need to address in building a new,
   post September 11^th maritime security environment.  In particular, I’m
   concerned about the current gaps in planning for port security.

   In aviation, our airports have a level of coordinated security
   preplanning that allowed the FAA to respond quickly to threats in the
   aviation system on September 11^th.  We need to build the same kind of
   planning structure and response capability for our ports.  We need a
   more consistent framework for improved threat assessment, and a set of
   standardized procedures and protocols to follow if, God forbid,
   terrorists strike again.

   The Action Group also articulated noteworthy concerns relating to our
   knowledge of the contents in a marine container.  U.S. ports handle
   more than 17 million marine containers per year.  Containers raise a
   specific concern because they are, by design, intermodal.  The
   container unloaded at a port on one day can end up on a truck or train
   deep in the heartland of America on the next.

   Although existing laws require the manifesting of all inbound cargo, we
   rely almost entirely on the data provided by shippers to carriers and
   consignees for information on container contents.  And, with very few
   exceptions, we cannot track a specific container once it leaves the
   seaport.

   The attacks on our aviation security system revealed significant cracks
   in the personnel screening process at our nation’s airports, fissures
   that we will continue to take the necessary steps to fill.  Do we need
   to consider similar screening for personnel employed in security
   sensitive positions in the maritime industry?  And if so, how should we
   define what constitutes “security sensitive” in a maritime context?

   We need to understand what the various proposals under discussion will
   mean for the industry, and for the efficiency of maritime
   transportation.

   We can address some of these security challenges administratively, but
   many will require legislative action.  Congress has already introduced
   a number of security initiatives, and more may follow. Debate in the
   Senate may begin as early as next week.

   We must move quickly on the issue of maritime security.  We recognize
   it will take all of America’s resources – public and private sector
   alike – to win this war against terrorism in which we find ourselves
   today.

   That is why we need your help now more than ever.  The Maritime
   Transportation System National Advisory Council possesses both the
   historical perspective and the collective knowledge to offer specific
   guidance on reducing the vulnerability of maritime commerce and
   infrastructure to terrorist activity.  I know your security team met
   this morning, and I look forward to your input.

   Members of this Council understand better than most what will and won’t
   work as we seek to balance our national security needs in the
   post-attack threat environment with the need to continue growing our
   economy.  America needs the instincts and experience of the maritime
   stakeholder community in all of these deliberations.

   A fully coordinated and integrated public-private approach to port
   security has always been a key element of the Marine Transportation
   System.  Better communication provides the foundation for
   coordination.  Simply stated, we don’t speak with one another enough
   about this important topic – and we must.  In the short run, this
   Council provides a logical forum for these conversations.

   But in the longer run, providing for the national security must go
   beyond better law enforcement procedures.  We must continue to invest
   in our critical transportation infrastructure needs.  That remains the
   Council’s principal mission.

   It is true that we must couple our efforts to expand the capacity of
   our ports with an awareness of the need for greater security.  But, as
   we gear up to fight the war on terrorism, we cannot afford to ignore
   the gap between the growing demand for maritime transportation and our
   current capacity.

   President Bush said in his remarks to the families and friends of those
   who perished at the Pentagon, “Our cause is just…our nation is strong
   of heart, firm of purpose.   Inspired by all the courage that has come
   before, we will meet our moment and we will prevail.

   Indeed, the American people will prevail because of capable men and
   women like those of you here today, men and women who believe in the
   principles on which this great nation was founded – freedom, liberty,
   democracy.

   Time and time again, our nation’s maritime industry has responded to
   America’s call.  I know that you will do so again, tomorrow and for
   years to come.

   Again, thank you for this opportunity to join you. I look forward to
   continuing our work together.

                                    # # #

     __________________________________________________________________

                                Briefing Room
