http://www.dfi.ca.gov/FeaturedNews1.htm

                                                 featured.gif (1495 bytes)

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER
     AFFAIRS
             NEW OFFICE OF PRIVACY PROTECTION OPENS DOORS
             First State Agency in Nation Dedicated to Protecting Privacy
     Rights [privacy_logo_std.gif]

     Tip of the Month:
     Don’t carry your Social Security card in your purse or wallet. It’s
     an open invitation for a thief to get access to your personal
     information. Check your health plan and  other cards that may have
     your Social Security number on them. Carry only the minimum
     necessary identification.

     Contact Information:
     Office of Privacy Protection
     Toll Free number: (800) 952-5210
     Email: privacyprotection@dca.ca.gov
     Web site: http://www.privacyprotection.ca.gov/

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     CUNA Names New Chairman

     The Credit Union National Association (CUNA) Board Tuesday, October
     30, 2001 voted Barry Jolette, a former National Credit Union
     Association (NCUA) examiner and head of San Mateo Credit Union in
     California, as its new chairman. Jolette will succeed David Maus,
     chairman for the last two years who will leave the board after 11
     years. Texas Credit Union League President Dick Ensweiler was named
     vice chair and Juri Valdov named secretary. Don Larsen was voted
     treasurer. The CUNA Board also voted to endorse the final
     recommendations of the Renaissance Commission.

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Department of Corporations Wins Federal
     Consumer Protection Grant
     "Seniors Against Investment Fraud" Will Fight Predatory Investment
     Practices

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Microenterprise Lending: Crossing the
     Bridge to Self-Employment: A Federal Microenterprise Resource Guide
     available from the FDIC

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     GOVERNOR DAVIS URGES CONSUMERS TO BE ON
     THE LOOKOUT FOR PREDATORY LENDERS - California Consumers Warned to
     Beware of Unlawful and Unethical Lending Practices

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Financial Education Curriculum

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    NCUA Offers Pamphlet on How to Avoid
     Becoming a Victim of Identify Theft

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Payday Lending: Many check cashing
     businesses in California offer small sum, short-term, high-rate,
     unsecured personal loans. These loans go by many names, including
     "payday loans," "cash advance loans",  "post-dated check loans" or
     "deferred deposits."

             See Payday Lending Fact Sheet from the California Department
     of Corporations

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     FDIC Issues Special Alert on Counterfeit
     Cashier's Checks

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Fannie Mae Foundation Report -
     Low-Income and Minority Families
           Rely Increasingly on High-Cost Financial Services
             - Most Financially Vulnerable Pay More to Cash Checks,
     Transfer Money, and Get Loans
              Fannie Mae Foundation Report Shows How to Help Residents of
     Distressed Communities
              to Build Wealth

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Toll Free Number to Opt-Out

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     California Department of Financial
     Institutions Receives Re-accreditation from CSBS
             - Certifying that the Department maintains the highest
     standards and practices
              in state banking supervision

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Governor Davis Appoints Chief Deputy
     Commissioner

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    Economic Research and Planning -
     Department of Finance

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     Small Business Opportunities with the
     Department of Financial Institutions

     redball.gif (924 bytes)     State Announces April as Financial
     Literacy for Youth Month

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    DFI Launches Kids Page

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    Year of the Arts 2001 Campaign

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    Cesar Chavez 1927-1993

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    Flex your Power ... Be energy efficient!

     redball.gif (924 bytes)    DFI - In the Community
