http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/savrtfaq.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   U.S. Savings Bonds FAQ Area
   line divider

                  EE Savings Bonds Bought May 1997 or After

   This is a series of Frequently Asked Questions about the rate structure
   for Series EE U.S. Savings Bonds bought May 1997 or after.
     * 1) NEW RATE STRUCTURE FOR SERIES EE SAVINGS BONDS
        1.1) I've heard about the new savings bond rate structure. Does
            this mean that Treasury is issuing a new series of savings
            bonds?
            1.2) Why did Treasury change the way Series EE bonds earn
            interest?
     * 2) EFFECTIVE DATE
        2.1) When do the new rates for savings bonds take effect?
     * 3) INTEREST RATE AND MATURITY
        3.1) How did Treasury set the new rate?
            3.2) How is interest added to savings bonds after May 1, 1997?
            3.3) How long do I have to hold my bonds to get the new rates?
            3.4) If I cash a bond during the first five years, how is the
            penalty figured?
            3.5) Will I get compound interest?
            3.6) How long will my bonds earn interest?
            3.7) Can I be sure my bond will reach face value?
     * 4) IMPACT ON OTHER SAVINGS BONDS YOU OWN
        4.1) What happens to the Series EE and E savings bonds I already
            own?
            4.2) Are there any changes to Series HH or H bonds?
     * 5) SAFETY OF INVESTMENT
        5.1) How safe is my investment?

                          horizontal separator bar

     * 1) NEW RATE STRUCTURE FOR SERIES EE SAVINGS BONDS
            1.1) I've heard about the new savings bond rate structure.
            Does this mean that Treasury is issuing a new series of
            savings bonds?
            No. Treasury is making the familiar Series EE savings bond a
            more attractive way to save by moving to a higher rate and by
            increasing bond values every month instead of semiannually.
            1.2) Why did Treasury change the way Series EE bonds earn
            interest?
            This is the latest in a series of changes to Series EE bonds
            that will make them a more attractive way for Americans to
            save for the future.

   Return to Table of Contents
     * 2) EFFECTIVE DATE
            2.1) When do the new rates for savings bonds take effect?
            The new way of setting rates for Series EE savings bonds takes
            effect for bonds issued on or after May 1, 1997.

   Return to Table of Contents
     * 3) INTEREST RATE AND MATURITY
        3.1) How did Treasury set the new rate?
            Savings bonds will earn the new higher rates right from the
            start. The rate is 90 percent of the average 5-year Treasury
            market yields for the preceding six months. Treasury will
            announce a savings bond rate each May 1 and November 1. The
            rates announced each May and November are the annual rates
            that apply to bonds for that six month earning period. For
            example, the six month earning period for a bond issued in May
            is from May through October; for a bond issued in June, it's
            June through November. The rate that's announced is the rate
            bonds will earn during the 6-month earning period.
            3.2) How is interest added to savings bonds after May 1, 1997?
            New EE bonds will increase in value every month. The rate that
            Treasury announces each May and November will be applied to a
            bond for the 6-month earning period.
            3.3) How long do I have to hold my bonds to get the new rates?
            Savings bonds can be cashed in any time after 6 months. If you
            redeem a bond before 5 years, there is a 3-month interest
            penalty. See question 3.4 for more information.
            3.4) If I cash a bond during the first five years, how is the
            penalty figured?
            If you cash a bond before it is five years old, you give up
            the last three months worth of interest. For example, if you
            buy a bond in May 1997 and cash it 24 months later in May
            1999, you get your original investment back plus 21 months of
            interest. The value of the bond would be based on the
            announced rates applied over the 21 month period from May 1997
            through February 1999.
            3.5) Will I get compound interest?
            Yes. The Series EE bond interest rate is compounded
            semiannually.
            3.6) How long will my bonds earn interest?
            Series EE bonds will earn interest for 30 years. At the 30
            year mark, they reach final maturity and stop earning
            interest.
            3.7) Can I be sure my bond will reach face value?
            Yes. Series EE bonds are purchased at half their face value or
            denomination. Because EE bond interest is pegged to market
            rates that change every six months, there is no way to predict
            when a bond will reach its face value. For example, a bond
            earning an average of 5% would reach face value in 14½ years
            while a bond earning an average of 6% would reach face value
            in 12 years. In the unlikely event that rates are so low that
            a bond doesn't reach face value by the time it is 17 years
            old, Treasury will make a one-time adjustment to increase the
            bond's value to face value at that time.

   Return to Table of Contents
     * 4) IMPACT ON OTHER SAVINGS BONDS YOU OWN
        4.1) What happens to the Series EE and E savings bonds I already
            own?
            Nothing. Outstanding Series EE and E bonds as well as savings
            notes issued before May 1, 1997, are not affected by these
            changes. They will continue to earn interest under the terms
            in effect before May 1, 1997.
            4.2) Are there any changes to Series HH or H bonds?
            No. Series HH bonds remain unchanged. Series HH/H bonds issued
            or entering an extended maturity period on or after March 1993
            will pay interest at a level rate of 4%.

   Return to Table of Contents
     * 5) SAFETY OF INVESTMENT
        5.1) How safe is my investment?
            Your principal and interest are backed by the full faith and
            credit of the United States. This means that you will always
            get back your original investment and the interest it has
            earned when it comes time to redeem your bond.

   Return to Table of Contents
       This FAQ is maintained by the Bureau of the Public Debt's Savings
       Bond Operations Office. Keep in mind that these questions may not
       fit all situations and are only intended as guidelines. Please send
       any questions or comments to: SavBonds@bpd.treas.gov .

   Return to Main FAQ Menu
       See also:
       EE/E Bought May 1997 or After
       EE/E Bought May 1995 through April 1997
       EE/E Bought Before May 1995
       Market-Based Rates
       When Bonds Stop Earning Interest
       When Bonds Increase in Value

   Updated December 28, 2001
