http://fire.pppl.gov/GarwinSANDReport.pdf

   SAND2000-2515 Unlimited Release Printed October 2000 Pulsed Power Peer
   Review Committee Report Pulsed Power Peer Review Committee Dr. Richard
   Garwin, Chairman Prepared by Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque,
   New Mexico 87185 and Livermore, California 94550 Sandia is a
   multiprogram laboratory operated by Sandia Corporation, a Lockheed
   Martin Company, for the United States Department of Energy under
   Contract DE-AC04-94AL85000. Approved for public release; further
   dissemination unlimited. 3 Intentionally Left Blank 4 SAND2000-2515
   Unlimited Release Printed October 2000 Pulsed Power Peer Review
   Committee Report Pulsed Power Peer Review Committee Sandia National
   Laboratories P.O. Box 5800 Albuquerque, NM 87185-1182 Abstract In 1993,
   the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA, PL 103-62) was
   enacted. GPRA, which applies to all federal programs, has three
   components: strategic plans, annual performance plans, and metrics to
   show how well annual plans are being followed. As part of meeting the
   GRPA requirement in FY2000, a 14-member external peer review panel (the
   Garwin Committee) was convened on May 17-19, 2000 to review Sandia
   National Laboratories' Pulsed Power Programs as a component of the
   Performance Appraisal Process negotiated with the Department of Energy
   (DOE). The scope of the review included activities in inertial
   confinement fusion (ICF), weapon physics, development of radiation
   sources for weapons effects simulation, x-ray radiography, basic
   research in high energy density physics (HEDP), and pulsed power
   technology research and development. In his charge to the committee,
   Jeffrey Quintenz, Director of Pulsed Power Sciences (1600) asked that
   the review be based on four criteria: 1) quality of science,
   technology, and engineering, 2) programmatic performance, management,
   and planning, 3) relevance to national needs and agency missions, and
   4) performance in the operation and construction of major research
   facilities. In addition, specific programmatic questions were posed by
   the director and by the DOE/Defense Programs (DP). The accompanying
   report, produced as a SAND document, is the report of the committee's
   findings. 5 Intentionally Left Blank 6 Foreword In 1993, the Government
   Performance and Results Act (GPRA, PL 103-62) was enacted. GPRA, which
   applies to all federal programs, has three components: strategic plans,
   annual performance plans, and metrics to show how well annual plans are
   being followed. As part of meeting the GRPA requirement in FY2000, a
   14-member external peer review panel (the Garwin Committee) was
   convened on May 17-19, 2000 to review Sandia National Laboratories'
   Pulsed Power Programs as a component of the Performance Appraisal
   Process negotiated with the Department of Energy (DOE). The scope of
   the review included activities in inertial confinement fusion (ICF),
   weapon physics, development of radiation sources for weapons effects
   simulation, x-ray radiography, basic research in high energy density
   physics (HEDP), and pulsed power technology research and development.
   In his charge to the committee, Jeffrey Quintenz, Director of Pulsed
   Power Sciences (1600) asked that the review be based on four criteria:
   1) quality of science, technology, and engineering, 2) programmatic
   performance, management, and planning, 3) relevance to national needs
   and agency missions, and 4) performance in the operation and
   construction of major research facilities. In addition, specific
   programmatic questions were posed by the director and by the
   DOE/Defense Programs (DP). The accompanying report, produced as a SAND
   document, is the report of the committee's findings. This is not the
   first such external review of our Pulsed Power Programs. The table
   lists previous reviews, both those self requested and sponsored by
   Sandia and those requested and sponsored by DOE, since the late 1970s.
   The original composition of the Garwin Committee was 17 members.
   Because of the Cerro Grande fire, the three from Los Alamos National
   Laboratory (Stephen Younger, James A. "Jas" Mercer-Smith, and Stirling
   Colgate) were not able to attend. In addition to the formal agenda in
   Appendix II, on May 17, Chris Keane of DP made some opening remarks to
   explain the context of pulsed power with respect to DP and the
   Stockpile Stewardship Program (SSP); Allan Hauer informally summarized
   LANL's use of Z in place of Bob Chrien and Fritz Swenson, who could not
   attend; and Mike Dunne of the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE)
   explained the role of Z in providing weapon physics data. On May 18 Al
   Romig, Vice President of 1000, and Paul Robinson, Sandia's President,
   explained the role of pulsed power at Sandia as a whole, and Ray Leeper
   briefly summarized the progress in diagnostics since the 1997 Welch
   Review. May 19 was devoted to committee deliberations and an
   outbriefing to Sandia management. 7 Planning for the review began in
   December 1999 and included monthly planning and semi-monthly logistics
   meetings. The following Sandians in 1600 participated in the planning:
   Jeff Quintenz, Jim Asay, Doug Bloomquist, Marti Martin, Keith Matzen,
   Dillon McDaniel, and Mary Ann Sweeney. In addition, Jerry Hanks,
   Elizabeth Gonzales, and Mary Payne from Org. 12141 (Integrated
   Management & Assessment) participated in the meetings. The Committee
   was supplied with the following: the Pulsed Power Sciences strategic
   plan (Pulsed Power Path Forward: A Strategy for Leadership), the two-
   page memo "Pulsed Power Review Theme," booklets of the vugraphs
   presented, and a summary of the recommendations of the two most recent
   peer review committees (The Welch Committees), which met February
   21-23, 1996 and March 24-25, 1997. 8 External Peer Reviews of Sandia's
   Pulsed Power Sciences Programs Name or purpose Chairman or Date(s)
   Requester or participants conducted sponsor Technical Review of
   Particle Beam Fusion Al Trivelpiece Nov. 1978 SNL Program AdHoc Experts
   Group on Fusion John Foster 1979 DOE (Foster Review of ICF Programs)
   (Oct. 17 report) Technical Review of Particle Beam Fusion Al
   Trivelpiece Jan. 15-17, 1980 SNL Program Davidson Review of Pulsed
   Power ICF Ronald Davidson Oct. 1983 SNL Davidson Review of Pulsed Power
   ICF Ronald Davidson Jan. 21-23, 1985 SNL NAS Review of ICF Programs
   Unknown 1985 DOE NAS Review of ICF Programs Will Happer 1986 DOE (Mar.
   report) Davidson Review of Pulsed Power ICF Ronald Davidson July 1987
   SNL Assessment of status of light ion program as Alex Glass, Gerry Oct.
   27, 1988 DOE part of overall review of ion, KrF, and solid Yonas,
   Charlie state laser programs Martin, Ronald Davidson, Ian Smith
   Davidson Review of Pulsed Power ICF Ronald Davidson Sept. 26-28, SNL
   1988 GAO audit of ICF Programs Victor Rezendes 1990 House Armed
   Services Comm. NAS Review of ICF Programs & Steve Koonin Nov. 3, 1989 &
   DOE LMF proposal Aug. 29, 1990 Fusion Policy Advisory Committee Guy
   Stever Sept. 1990 DOE Review of light ion beam fusion program Dave
   Hammer Dec. 16-17, 1991 SNL (Feb. 5 report) ICFAC Review of National
   ICF Program Venky Narayanamurti Dec. 16-18, 1992 DOE ICFAC Review of
   SNL light ion program Venky Narayanamurti Mar. 8-10, 1993 DOE ICFAC
   Review of Progress on NIF Venky Narayanamurti May 1994 DOE (SNL
   involved in target diagnostics, target chamber, and power conditioning)
   Jason Review of ICF role in stockpile Sid Drell June 1994 DOE
   stewardship (Oct. 26 report) ICFAC Review of Progress on Nova Venky
   Narayanamurti June 5-8, 1995 DOE technical contract and SNL light ion
   program Jason Review of ICF role in stockpile Sid Drell Jan. 17, 1996
   DOE stewardship (Feb. 20 report) Welch Review of pulsed power program
   in Jasper Welch Feb. 21-23, 1996 SNL Stockpile Stewardship Program
   (SSP) Welch Review to assess quality and Jasper Welch March 24-25, SNL
   relevance of z-pinch program to SSP 1997 Workshop on application of
   pulsed power to Steve Koonin, April 9, 1998 DOE request; SSP Marshall
   Rosenbluth, SNL/LANL Arthur Kerman sponsors Classified workshop on fast
   & slow pulsed Robin Staffin May 12-14, 1998 DP-1 request; power for SSP
   (SNL/LANL/LLNL SNL/LANL weapon scientists) sponsors HEDP Advisory
   Committee on Z shot plans No formal chairman; Aug. 1998 arranged by SNL
   participants gave at DOE request individual recommendations Review of
   conceptual design and cost, Bill Simmons Nov. 1998 DP-18 request;
   schedule, and performance of Z/Beamlet SNL sponsored 9 Intentionally
   Left Blank 10 11 Intentionally Left Blank 12 PULSED POWER PEER REVIEW
   COMMITTEE REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS I.
   ABSTRACT...............................................................
   .................................................5 II. FOREWORD
   .......................................................................
   ......................................7 III. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
   .......................................................................
   .............. 15 IV. INTRODUCTION
   .......................................................................
   ............................ 21 V. GENERAL
   COMMENTS...............................................................
   ........................ 21 VI. COMMITTEE RESPONSES TO SELF-ASSESSMENT
   EVALUATION CRITERIA
   .......................................................................
   ........................................ 22 A. QUALITY OF SCIENCE,
   TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING.
   .................................................................. 22
   B. PROGRAMMATIC PERFORMANCE, MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING.
   ..................................................... 24 C. RELEVANCE
   TO NATIONAL NEEDS AND DOE MISSION OTHER THAN STOCKPILE STEWARDSHIP
   ...... 25 D. SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING VALUE OF PULSED POWER FACILITIES
   FOR STOCKPILE STEWARDSHIP 26 * Weapons Science Applications
   .......................................................................
   .. 27 * Use of Z for EOS and Materials
   Applications.................................................. 27 *
   High Energy Density Physics
   .......................................................................
   .... 27 * Pulsed Power Development
   Laboratory...........................................................
   28 * Z Modernization
   .......................................................................
   ........................ 28 * Radiography
   .......................................................................
   .............................. 28 VII. RESPONSES TO PROGRAMMATIC
   QUESTIONS FROM THE PULSED POWER CENTER
   DIRECTOR...............................................................
   ............. 28 S1. How to address the eroding pulsed-power tech base
   and loss of expertise. S2. Z is oversubscribed (underfunded). S3. How
   to balance the Sandia effort across the four program elements: a)
   High-yield
   assessment.............................................................
   ..................................................... 29 b) Leveraging
   pulsed power advances in France and Russia.
   ......................................................... 29 c) New
   applications of Z-pinch technology.
   .......................................................................
   .............. 30 d) Supporting NIF.
   .......................................................................
   .................................................... 30 S4.What is the
   "best" next step for a pulsed power facility? VIII. RESPONSES TO
   PROGRAMMATIC QUESTIONS FROM DOE/DP.........30 DP1 The utility of
   Z-pinches for weapon physics studies (no
   ignition).................................... 31 DP2. The utility of
   Z-pinches for NIF ignition
   studies...............................................................
   31 DP3. The utility of Z-pinches for attaining high yield.
   ................................................................ 31
   DP4. What areas of technology development should DP support?
   ............................................. 31 APPENDIX I: COMMITTEE
   MEMBERSHIP.......................................................... 23
   APPENDIX II: AGENDA
   .......................................................................
   ......................25 13 Intentionally Left Blank 14 Pulsed Power
   Program Peer Review May 17-19, 2000 Executive Summary 15 Intentionally
   Left Blank 16 17 18 Pulsed Power Peer Review Committee Report Richard
   L. Garwin, Chairman William Bookless David Forster Yogendra M. Gupta
   David A. Hammer Orval E. Jones Don Linger K. K. "Bud" Pyatt, Jr.
   Marshall N. Rosenbluth Ian D. Smith Marshall Sluyter William J.
   Tedeschi Alan J. Toepfer Richard A. Ward July 2000 19 Intentionally
   Left Blank 20 PULSED POWER PROGRAM PEER REVIEW I. Introduction Each
   year Sandia National Laboratories undertakes a Performance Objective
   Self- Assessment as part of the DOE/Sandia Performance Appraisal
   Process, which spans Management, Programmatic, Administration, and
   Operations performance. Pulsed power is a key element of Sandia's
   Science and Technology programs and as such was chosen by Sandia
   management for assessment in FY00. Similar reviews of the pulsed power
   programs, chaired by Dr. Jasper Welch were held in FY961 and FY97.2 An
   external review committee, chaired by Dr. Richard Garwin, was chartered
   by Sandia to meet and hear briefings by Sandia and outside
   collaborators on May 17 and 18, 2000. The FY00 assessment concentrated
   on the applications of pulsed power to the Stockpile Stewardship
   Program (SSP): the development of high energy density environments for
   Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF), application of z-pinch sources to
   weapon physics (with LLNL and LANL) development of compact radiographic
   capability in support of LANL sub-critical experiments, development of
   radiation sources for certification in hostile environments, and
   simulation of weapon effects in partnership with the DoD Defense Threat
   Reduction Agency (DTRA). The complete recommendations of the committee
   are presented in this report. Appendix I is a list of committee members
   that identifies each member's participation on panels which were formed
   to address DOE performance appraisal evaluation criteria. Appendix II
   lists the presentations that were made by Sandia and its collaborators
   in pulsed-power research to the committee. II. General Comments The
   committee believes that a program with the potential of the Z machine
   (Z), which has achieved the remarkable progress documented in this peer
   review should be nurtured. The benefits of doing this will support the
   Nation's Stockpile Stewardship (SSP), Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF)
   and High Energy Density Physics (HEDP) programs. Further progress is
   now limited more by funding constraints than by scientific or
   technological 1 J. Welch, et al., "Sandia National Laboratory External
   Advisory Committee on Pulsed Power-Based Stockpile Stewardship,"
   Science Applications International Corp, Albuquerque, NM (2 April,
   1996). 2 J. Welch, et al., "Meeting Report  Committee on Pulsed
   Power-Based Stockpile Stewardship," Science Applications International
   Corp, Albuquerque, NM (16 May, 1997). 21 obstacles. We are concerned
   that pulsed power ranks low in DOE's funding priorities, and believe
   that an increase in the priority of the Pulsed Power Program at Sandia
   is justified by the program's scientific achievements and relevance to
   the SSP, ICF and basic science. The DOE SSP and ICF Program Offices
   should support a robust, balanced, pulsed-power program at Sandia.
   Along with increased fiscal support, a set of clear goals and
   objectives that are supported by DOE/DP and Sandia executive management
   should be set for the Pulsed Power Center. To support this process, a
   DOE-DP external HEDP overview committee should be chartered to include
   all of the HEDP (ICF/WS) programs at the various laboratories in the
   stewardship context so as to optimize the effectiveness of overall ICF
   and weapon science experiments. III. Committee Responses to
   Self-Assessment Evaluation Criteria The committee was asked to address
   four evaluation criteria as input to the self- assessment process: A.
   Quality of Science, Technology and Engineering - Assess the quality of
   science, technology and engineering so far achieved and definitely
   planned for Z and other pulsed power facilities. The three years since
   the last review of the Sandia Pulsed Power Sciences Program have
   witnessed the transition from a pulsed power program with aspirations
   to do inertial confinement fusion (ICF) research to an outstanding high
   energy density physics (HEDP) program based upon pulsed power.
   Improving the diagnostic capability, expanding the involvement of other
   laboratory scientists and understanding the physics of wire array z-
   pinches as intense sources of x-rays are necessary for productive
   operation of Z. These efforts are well underway, advancing at a rate
   limited by financial resources. The productivity and the quality of the
   scientific output are now very high and the participation of scientists
   from LANL, LLNL and AWE in experiments on Z is an indication of the
   value of that facility for stockpile stewardship, ICF, weapon physics
   and nuclear weapon effects. The greatly improved and impressive new
   ASCI computational capabilities form an essential part of the Sandia
   program. A major recommendation of the 1997 Welch Committee was to
   assure the maintenance of the pulsed power engineering program at
   Sandia as the best in the world. This is still an important goal in
   order to effectively build upon the successes of recent years. The
   planned upgrades to Z that collectively would yield the Z-Mod machine
   seem prudent to us and should be implemented as soon as it is possible
   to do so without undue interruption of the ongoing physics program. It
   is important to continue the pulsed power engineering research program
   at an adequate level, in order to ensure the science base and
   engineering skill level needed for these machine upgrades and for
   building a next generation facility if and when needed. The Z machine
   is much more potent, flexible, and versatile than was envisaged a few
   years ago. DOE and Sandia should consider some reallocation of
   resources to allow at least a full single-shift operation and progress
   on the Z-Mod upgrade. We hope the customers, LANL, LLNL, and DTRA, will
   also be willing to increase their financial contributions. 22 The
   number of shots allowable under present budgets is not adequate to
   pursue all the important objectives we list below. In order to exploit
   the success of the Z program, it needs to proceed in diverse areas. We
   first recommend four areas to fully exploit the capabilities of the
   present Z machine. * Continuing to enhance the capabilities of Z, by
   better understanding and optimization of wire arrays, flux compression
   applications, characterization of advanced hohlraums, improved
   diagnostics and computations, should remain a key focus of the Z
   program. * Physics studies - equation of state (EOS), radiation
   transport, and opacity measurements. This work can provide important
   high energy density physics (HEDP) information of use to SSP,
   supplementing data from NOVA and Omega lasers and benchmarking ASCI
   code predictions. * Physics studies on Z in the lower temperature
   regions of the NIF foot pulse, along with equation of state (EOS),
   radiation transport, and opacity measurements all support the NIF by
   helping to benchmark ASCI codes. The proposed high-yield physics
   program involving hohlraum studies and capsule implosions also
   constitutes effective NIF support. * Radiation effects testing on Z and
   Saturn  it would be useful if DTRA and Sandia, in coordination with
   STRATCOM and OSD, could provide a set of hardness criteria for future
   threat scenarios appropriate to the 21st Century, to enable a judgment
   as to the urgency of upgraded X-ray production capabilities, and the
   necessity for the use of Z rather than less advanced machines at this
   time. The following three areas involve pulsed power engineering and
   envisage more powerful or differently configured machines. * Pulsed
   Power - Sandia pulsed power capabilities are an important national
   asset. A minimal program to conserve this asset with a very valuable
   end product would be the incremental, cost-effective upgrade of Z to
   Z-Mod. The recommended best next step is Z-Mod at a 28 - 30 MA target
   level. * High Yield - For the longer term the high-yield "vision"
   provides a useful direction for future developments. Although some
   level of design work is appropriate, it is premature to settle on a
   single option such as X-1. Efforts relative to high yield should be
   appropriately balanced against fully exploiting the present Z
   capabilities. A more aggressive collaboration with French and Russian
   pulsed power programs that are developing alternative technologies is
   encouraged. * Radiography - the Inductive Voltage Adder (IVA) x-ray
   radiography source to be fielded at NTS is a demonstration of the
   utility and flexibility of pulsed power technology for SSP. 23 B.
   Programmatic Performance, Management and Planning - Evaluate the
   programmatic performance, management and planning thus far exhibited in
   the Z program. Programmatic Performance The Pulsed Power Program has
   fully implemented the 1997 Welch Committee's recommendation of
   acquiring and installing an extensive suite of high quality diagnostics
   equipment on Z, and has also come a long way towards developing a very
   good understanding of the Z-pinch physics using wire arrays. The
   program should be commended for these accomplishments. * Although now
   done on an informal basis, to increase the programmatic impact of Z, we
   recommend that a formal user's group be constituted and actively
   maintained through regular and intensive participation of the user
   community and other stakeholders. The function of this group would be
   to advise Sandia management on how to optimize the utilization of Z for
   ICF, weapon physics, and radiation effects, consistent with the DOE/DP
   and DoD/DTRA needs and resources. Management Performance We were
   gratified to note the strong support of the Pulsed Power Program in the
   recent congressional testimony of Sandia president, Dr. C. Paul
   Robinson. Consistent with this executive management support, an
   additional $5M invested by DOE-DP and/or Sandia to expand Z operations
   to their full single-shift pulse capability would be of enormous
   benefit to Sandia, to the DOE Stockpile Stewardship Program, and the
   DoD. We note and applaud the move for a strong, continued effort to
   cement and enhance the Sandia Pulsed Power Program's relationship with
   the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) in radiation effects. Within
   Sandia, there is both an organizational and a programmatic separation
   between the Pulsed Power Sciences and Applied Physics Centers. Saturn,
   Hermes III and Sphinx, which are organizationally in the Applied
   Physics Center, have key roles in radiation sciences, weapon effects
   and code development, and rely on science and technology developed in
   the Pulsed Power Sciences Center. There is a need for cold x-ray source
   development that could be addressed on Z with increased funding for
   radiation source development. In the current FY'01 plan, due to
   shortfalls in funding, only 140 shots are scheduled on Z, with 10
   allocated for radiation sciences/weapon effects testing. With increased
   funding, adding 50 shots to cover the FY'01 request supporting
   radiation effects is well within the number of shots that could be done
   under single shift operation. * While it was clear that at the working
   levels there is effective collaboration between the Centers, we
   nevertheless raise the question of whether putting Saturn/Hermes
   III/Sphinx and Z under the same organizational unit might not be
   beneficial. We urge Sandia's executive management to explore the
   feasibility of such integration, or absent that, programmatic alignment
   with the establishment of a program oversight 24 committee or program
   matrix manager to assure optimum utilization of Sandia's pulsed power
   assets. Planning Although the long-range goal of achieving high-yield
   capsule fusion is worthy of future consideration, this goal is still
   too far in the future and fraught with problems, and should be pressed
   with prudence and caution rather than as a committed goal. For the next
   several years, the overarching principle should be to balance and
   prioritize present Stockpile Stewardship Program utilization and
   exploration of new physics possibilities on Z, versus efforts to
   establish new, much larger facilities. In short, now is the time for
   harvesting the magnificent opportunities for doing physics on Z. We
   endorse a strategy that begins immediately with obtaining sufficient
   funding, either internally or externally, to increase the number of
   experimental shots on Z from the current FY 2001 plan of 140 to full
   single-shift operation of about 220. Further, we believe that the
   proposed modernization of Z, to Z-Mod, should be pursued to improve the
   reliability of the Z machine, as well as to obtain an increase in
   current capability from the present 20 MA to 28 - 30 MA. The research
   carried out in France and Russia has the potential for development of
   new technologies that have the promise of increased efficiencies and
   lower costs. We believe that collaboration with France and Russia
   provides great opportunities for leveraging Sandia's research
   activities. * The Pulsed Power Program should develop a strategic
   investment plan for funding activities with the Russian scientific
   institutions to maximize the leverage afforded by the difference in the
   salary structures in the two countries. Likewise, planning should
   address enhancement of the collaboration with France as well as with
   the British, the DoD, the US pulsed-power industry, and universities.
   We endorse Sandia's proposal to establish a standing external
   pulsed-power technology advisory committee. However, for such a
   committee to be effective and worth the effort for all concerned,
   Sandia must regularly task it, keep it fully and accurately informed,
   and give genuine consideration to its recommendations. * The Pulsed
   Power Program should develop priority plans, consistent with the
   recommendations of this report, and ensure their internal dissemination
   and discussion. C. Relevance to National Needs and DOE Mission Other
   Than Stockpile Stewardship Charge: Evaluate the relevance of
   pulsed-power work to national needs and the DOE mission, other than
   stockpile stewardship Pulsed power science is important at the national
   level, and Sandia's pulsed power program is highly relevant to national
   needs. The Sandia pulsed power program is excellent, and benefits not
   only DOE but DoD and its industrial contractors. In particular,
   advances such as those made in Sandia's pulsed power program are
   critical to 25 DTRA's mission. The Z-pinch has been an effective tool
   for DoD's simulation of nuclear weapons effects, and we endorse its
   continued development for better simulation of warm and cold x-rays,
   which is imperative for this aspect of national defense, as defined by
   current radiation hardness requirements. The availability of other
   types of sources (gamma simulators, megavolt bremsstrahlung, electron
   beams) in the various Sandia facilities is also very beneficial. Sandia
   is expected to have an important role in the carefully planned
   development of higher power facilities of all types mentioned plus ion
   beams, and these facilities will be important for verifying the effects
   of threats listed in DTRA's "Red Book", the basis for nuclear hardening
   of US military systems. Sandia can also make important contributions to
   the development and verification of physical models of weapons effects,
   which is an important adjunct to the use of big simulators. Increased
   community coordination is needed to make full use of Sandia's
   capabilities. * Between Sandia and DoD/DTRA, there is no formal weapon
   effects coordination working group. We recommend more coordination with
   DTRA and within SNL. Establishment of a coordination council between
   SNL and DTRA would strengthen and integrate the weapon effects
   community. There are opportunities for more teaming in this area that
   should be pursued. * Given the present nuclear hardness requirements
   for the W76-1 warhead, more shots are needed (up to a total of 60 per
   year) for cold x-ray source development and radiation hardening
   certification. An effective and affordable nuclear weapons program will
   benefit from a review by DoD and DOE of the nuclear hardness
   requirement, and especially from design changes outside the primary and
   canned secondary assembly that might permit meeting a given hardness
   requirement with a less capable radiation source. * Development of new
   machines should be part of a long-range strategy that develops new
   enabling technologies, balanced against meeting short-term needs,
   thereby allowing a powerful synergism that will sustain this vital
   national capability for many years to come. * Continued engagement of
   industry and academia is strongly recommended to identify other
   possible applications and national needs, and thereby help maintain a
   center of national pulsed power expertise at Sandia and attract new
   scientists and engineers to do research in this dynamic field. D.
   Science and Engineering Value of Pulsed Power Facilities for Stockpile
   Stewardship Charge: Assess the science and engineering value of
   pulsed-power facilities for stockpile stewardship, for the existing Z
   machine, a fully utilized Z, a Z-Mod at 28 or 32 MA, ZX (60 MA), and
   X-1 (2x60 MA). The Sandia high energy density Z-pinch pulsed power
   program has immediate relevance to the Stockpile Stewardship Program.
   Since 1997, the NOVA laser has been dismantled and completion of NIF
   has been seriously delayed. Consequently, the Z facility has now
   acquired greatly increased significance for accomplishing certain near-
   26 term campaign goals of the Stockpile Stewardship Program. Sandia's
   plate is very full, and both the Sandia executive and Center management
   will have to set priorities that balance two strong and competing
   forces: constrained budgets, and the need to pursue many scientific and
   technical objectives. * Weapons Science Applications - A high priority
   should be given to exploring and determining the feasibility of using
   the Z facility for experiments on Special Nuclear Material (SNM).
   Although this application raises ES&H issues and will require some sort
   of containment scheme, the time is ripe to initiate cost/risk/benefit
   design studies of possible usage scenarios. The ability to do such
   experiments will make the Z facility an excellent complement to other
   important DP experimental thrusts (JASPER, Sub-crits) for SNM studies.
   Committee members from LANL, LLNL, and AWE, stated that the Z facility
   will be, and should be, the principal radiative drive capability for
   the next 5-6 years for weapons-science applications. The pressures and
   time scales attainable with Z make it a unique capability for the SSP
   mission. A Tri-Lab consortium should provide guidance (and resources)
   to optimally use Z for weapons science applications. * Use of Z for EOS
   and Materials Applications - The innovative Z experiments on isentropic
   compression make a compelling case for using the Z facilities for EOS
   and Materials Physics research that will contribute to both fundamental
   science and programmatic applications. Because the Z capabilities can
   bridge the gap between gas guns and laser drive facilities, it can play
   a central role in this triad of AGEX capabilities that are needed to
   ensure that the large investments made in ASCI are properly utilized
   for the SSP. Good partnerships established with LLNL, LANL, and AWE,
   and collaborations with a number of key universities should be
   continued. * High Energy Density Physics - We recommend that the
   barrier between ICF and Weapons Science be removed, and the term "High
   Energy Density Physics" be used to denote these activities at the
   Pulsed Power Sciences Center. We encourage Sandia to hold workshops at
   LANL, LLNL, and AWE to inform scientists about Z capabilities and new
   developments, and to foster collaborations with appropriate groups at
   these laboratories. The Pulsed Power Sciences Center can, and should,
   rightly establish itself as a major element of HEDP for both civilian
   and defense applications. 27 * Pulsed Power Development Laboratory -
   The Committee strongly believes that, at an appropriate level, the
   Pulsed Power Development Laboratory (PPDL) is essential for maintaining
   the necessary expertise for future advancements. The PPDL provides an
   excellent opportunity for fruitful exchanges with the French and
   Russian efforts in switching and the alternative LTD technology.
   Interactions with the small number of U.S. pulsed-power contractors are
   important to ensure future advances and cost-effective developments. *
   Z Modernization - The Committee was unanimous in its belief that Z-Mod
   is worth pursuing without compromising the use of Z for the stockpile
   stewardship program. More ambitious upgrades to Z (ZX, X-1) should be
   viewed as part of the longer-term vision. A cautious approach that
   builds on the experience of an upgrade to Z-Mod, and on the use of Z
   and Z-Mod for various HEDP applications over the next several years
   will likely lead to a more efficient and workable achievement of the
   longer-term vision. * Radiography - In the past year, Sandia has made
   significant advances that have put IVA radiography diagnostics on the
   critical path for near term SSP sub-critical tests. The approach taken
   by Sandia/LANL/Bechetel-Nevada/PSI in exploiting the pulsed power
   technology base at Sandia to provide a flexible radiographic capability
   using IVA technology is excellent, and should provide a robust and
   expandable pulsed power driver for radiography. IV. Responses to
   Programmatic Questions from the Pulsed Power Center Director The
   committee was asked by the Pulsed Power Center Director to comment on
   four issues: S1. How to address the eroding pulsed-power tech base and
   loss of expertise. It is vital to maintain pulsed power capability for
   Sandia's HEDP programs to be viable. The aging and loss of the
   scientific staff is a major problem. The only way to maintain this
   capability is to actively engage in exciting programs both in pulsed
   power research and development and its application. Adding only one or
   two new outstanding staff each year to offset the loss of key people
   would maintain long-term program vitality. A modest but continuing
   investment in university pulsed power research programs would develop a
   source of this talent. The creation of the pulsed-power laboratory,
   foreign collaboration, and an aggressive program to define and
   implement modifications of Z at the 2830 MA level will provide the
   near-term opportunity to reverse this loss, as would application of IVA
   technology to sub-critical radiography. In addition, Sandia should make
   more use of pulsed-power industry, as it has in recent radiography
   programs, which would both alleviate Sandia's staff problem and help
   maintain US capability as a whole at a time when applications for
   industry are decreasing. 28 S2. Z is oversubscribed (underfunded). We
   strongly believe that Z is a resource that should be used to the
   single-shift limit of 220240 shots per year. Since Sandia already has a
   mechanism and tradition of work for others (WFO), it should be made
   clear that shots beyond those provided in the budget are available at
   cost. For partners that do not normally provide funds, one might set up
   a "revolving fund" or similar mechanism for keeping track of credits,
   so that Z work financed by Sandia will incur a Sandia credit that could
   be worked off by additional Sandia access to partner's facilities and
   resources. S3. How to balance the Sandia effort across the four program
   elements: a) High-yield assessment The committee believes that the Path
   Forward3 statement: "Our focus is on meeting the needs of the stockpile
   today. Our vision is to achieve high yield with pulsed power in the
   future," is an appropriate mission statement for a large part of the
   Pulsed Power Sciences Center. The long-range vision to achieve high
   yield addresses the "grand challenge" that will encourage the best
   efforts from the very talented staff already in the Center and its
   allied organizations at Sandia, and will also help to attract bright
   young people into the program. Synergistically, the research carried
   out in support of many weapon physics projects "automatically"
   contributes to building the database and level of understanding needed
   to achieve high yield in a future z-pinch facility. We believe that
   high yield should be maintained as a vision and that as preparations
   for Z-Mod go forward, a modest effort should be continued on high-yield
   capsule design, in collaboration with NIF. With NIF experiments
   delayed, the UGT moratorium, and the U.S. signature on the CTBT, the
   chief means over the next five years for establishing an experimental
   basis for the feasibility of achieving ignition and high-yield ICF will
   come from the pulsed power and HEDP programs at Sandia and the Omega
   laser at Rochester. Incorporating high yield, together with weapon
   science and Z-pinch research in a High- Energy Density Physics program,
   would be a useful and prudent step in the direction of achieving
   high-yield ICF. Before a DOE decision is made to pursue high yield as a
   national program, the feasibility, utility and affordability of a
   high-yield ICF facility must be addressed. The HEDP program on Z could
   make significant contributions to the question of feasibility.
   Characterization of pinch source and exploratory capsule implosions are
   an important part of this feasibility study. The Sandia ICF program, in
   conjunction with LLNL and LANL should continue with analyses of
   low-yield, break- even capsules, some of which might be accessible at
   the Z-mod level. b) Leveraging pulsed power advances in France and
   Russia The Sandia facilities Z, Hermes-III, etc. illustrate that US
   pulsed power is presently well ahead of France and Russia. Sandia
   expressed concern that because these countries are spending more of
   their effort on developing new pulsed power concepts, US pulsed power
   leadership is threatened. We believe that it has been correct for
   Sandia to emphasize the use of existing US technology and the
   exploiting of its larger existing 3 J. P. Quintenz, et al., "A Strategy
   for Pulsed Power Leadership," Sandia National Laboratories (May, 2000),
   unpublished. 29 facilities--the success of the modification that
   produced Z goes far to justify this. Moreover, Sandia's present
   technology may in fact be the best way to build ZX or X-1. Thus while
   new technology possibilities must always be considered, spending larger
   amounts of money than the French on new approaches is a losing
   proposition. Well- planned investments that take advantage of French
   and other foreign work is the right approach, partnering where
   appropriate. In the case of the French, Sandia might choose to
   complement their >0.5 microsecond vacuum-insulated LTD by developing
   ways to make it compatible with the time scale of Z-pinches; send
   Sandians to gain experience on the 10-MA LTD facility being built at
   CEG; or exercise an LTD module in the Pulsed Power Development Lab. In
   the case of the Russians, Sandia could supply additional funds to
   leverage the Russian developments in switching and power conditioning,
   which Russia is cost-effective in creating but not in a position to
   exploit. The Russian fluid- insulated LTD scheme, when developed, would
   require the same advances in vacuum interface/ power flow as would
   continued use of US technology. The pursuit of these power flow
   advances is a spearhead development activity for the US, and should be
   a high-priority for the Pulse Power Development Lab. c) New
   applications of Z-pinch technology As evidenced by the recent work in
   shock waves driven by magnetically accelerated flyer plates (and in
   isentropic compression experiments--ICE), there are valuable
   applications of the Z machine that do not involve Z-pinch. We urge the
   scientific staff and users to continue to explore opportunities to be
   surprised. Unexpected results effectively and creatively exploited in
   the area of equation-of-state experiments with the Z machine show
   promise to have major impact on the SSP program. d) Supporting NIF The
   pulsed power program can help substantially with NIF by benchmarking
   ASCI codes that deal with radiation transfer and ablation. Similarly,
   the same capsule design approaches that are to be used for NIF can be
   used by the NIF staff to design targets for Z, and diagnostics of
   incipient burn may be of help in the years before NIF operates. Some of
   this progress will be made by NIF projects at Z, and some will be made
   by scoping studies for high-yield capsules. S4. What is the "best" next
   step for a pulsed power facility? First is the improvement of
   efficiency and capacity for the operation of Z--more shots at less
   effort. At the same time, use this improved shot rate capacity to
   support definitive plans and implementation for a cost-effective Z-mod
   at the 2830 MA level without taking more than 25% of the time for this
   transition. V. Responses to Programmatic Questions from DOE/DP Sandia's
   DOE/DP sponsor requested inputs in four programmatic areas related to
   Sandia's pulsed power programs. The committee is pleased to offer the
   following observations. 30 DP1. The utility of Z-pinches for weapon
   physics studies (no ignition). Z (and a future Z-Mod) is a flexible
   resource for studying radiation flow in complex geometry, for
   validating ASCI codes for radiation flow, ablation, verifying opacity,
   equation of state, and the like. The recent results on equation of
   state and Hugoniot data are exciting, as is the potential for moving to
   higher pressures by "one-sided drive." Z can provide insight into the
   stability and unstable growth of interface disturbances, and should be
   particularly valuable if applied to SNM. A feasibility study addressing
   the technical and environmental issues involved in fielding small
   quantities of SNM on Z should be undertaken. DP2. The utility of
   Z-pinches for NIF ignition studies. The Z machine in its present
   configuration cannot directly replicate the expected hohlraum
   temperature of a full-scale NIF, but it can contribute to studies of
   radiation flow and uniformity, and to the validation of codes for the
   radiation-driven implosion of pellets designed with the same tools used
   for the laser-driven pellets in NIF. Given the availability of Z, it
   would be natural for the NIF team at LLNL to use their design tools to
   provide concepts for incipient ICF burn at Z, and for Livermore and
   Sandia to work together, if they desire, in order to provide
   diagnostics on such concepts. Furthermore, with the high-yield vision
   at Sandia, similar work should be undertaken by the Sandia team. Rather
   than forcing agreement on capsule design, such an approach would give
   the advantage of friendly competition, which can only aid NIF when it
   comes on line. DP3. The utility of Z-pinches for attaining high yield.
   We believe that it is important for Sandia, DOE/ICF and DOE/DP to work
   together to align more closely their views, plans and goals about
   whether "high-yield" capsule fusion is an appropriate goal for the
   Pulsed Power Program, and urge all parties to approach the issue of
   pulsed power high-yield with maximum flexibility and openness. Many
   feasibility issues remain to be further explored, e.g., pinch source
   characterization, symmetry, reproducibility, possible intermittence and
   energetic particle production, efficiency of radiation transport from
   larger wire arrays etc., and as yet there has been no capsule implosion
   experience. Nonetheless, there appears to be a good possibility that
   the long range goal of achieving fusion high-yield is compatible with
   the projected capability of the Z-pinch approach in the future, and it
   should be adopted by the program as a "vision" with the concurrence of
   both the DOE ICF Program Office and DOE Defense Programs. For the near
   term, however, we feel that it is more appropriate to balance and
   prioritize the opportunities for increased utilization of the current Z
   facility and exploration of new physics issues on Z rather than
   undertaking to build major new facilities. DP4. What areas of
   technology development should DP support? DP should support the
   modifications in Z required to provide full operation, in order to
   realize the benefit from the existing investment. Beyond that, there is
   needed the 31 conversion of Z to Z-Mod, at the 2830 MA level, in order
   to move exploration of equation of state to higher pressures, to
   increase the radiation temperature of Z-pinch driven hohlraums, and to
   exercise and benchmark modern pulsed power technology. In addition, DP
   should support cooperation of Sandia with the French and increase the
   very modest amount of investment in Russian activities. The inductive
   voltage adder (IVA) and the linear transformer drive (LTD) are
   promising approaches. DP should vigorously support work at Sandia on
   flux compression for pulse shortening and impedance matching. There is
   substantial benefit to be obtained by cleaning up some aspects of Z
   pinch that were passed over in the scramble to exploit the higher
   temperatures and larger radiation output. Improving the precision of
   wire placement should pay off in improved timing accuracy and
   repeatability, and this is desirable now in order to better plan for
   the future. 32 Appendix I: Committee Membership Chairman: Dr. Richard
   Garwin, IBM Research Division Panel 1: Quality of Science, Technology
   and Engineering Prof. Marshall Rosenbluth, University of California at
   San Diego, Lead Prof. David Hammer, Cornell University Mr. Ian Smith,
   Titan Pulsed Sciences, Inc. Panel 2: Programmatic Performance,
   Management and Planning Dr. Marshall Sluyter, Consultant, Lead Dr.
   William Bookless, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Dr. Orval
   Jones, Consultant Panel 3: Relevance to National Needs and DOE Mission
   Other Than Stockpile Stewardship Dr. William Tedeschi, Sandia National
   Laboratories, Lead Dr. Donald Linger, Defense Threat Reduction Agency
   Dr. K. D. "Bud" Pyatt, Jr., Maxwell Technologies, Inc. Panel 4: Science
   and Engineering Value of Pulsed Power Facilities for Stockpile
   Stewardship Prof. Yogi Gupta, Washington State University, Lead Mr.
   David Forster, Atomic Weapon Establishment (U.K.) Dr. Alan Toepfer,
   Science Applications International Corporation Dr. Richard Ward,
   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory 33 Appendix II: Agenda Wednesday
   May 17 Topic Speaker Welcome Jeff Quintenz * Introductions Introduction
   and overview Jeff Quintenz * Charge to committee * Pulsed Power
   overview * Outline of review Z-pinch tutorial Rick Spielman Mike
   Desjarlais Darrell Peterson Rick Spielman ICF Introduction and Need for
   High Yield Keith Matzen ICF Keith Matzen Mike Cuneo Jim Hammer Joel
   Lash John Porter Radiation Physics Bob Chrien * Radiation transport
   Fritz Swenson * Case dynamics * Astrophysics Summary Keith Matzen
   Thursday May 18 Activity Speaker EOS Jim Asay * Technique Development
   Clint Hall * Stockpile stewardship applications David Reisman *
   Cryogenics and D2 EOS Marcus Knudson * Future SSP applications Bob
   Cauble RES & Weapon Effects Jim Lee DTRA Source Dev. & Lethality Chris
   Deeney Tour of Z and Z/Beamlet Doug Bloomquist * Diagnostics Ray Leeper
   * Wire array lab Rick Spielman * Z/Beamlet facility John Porter
   Radiography John Maenchen ASCI Codes Overview Tom Mehlhorn Pulsed Power
   Technology Dillon McDaniel Summary and Expectations Jeff Quintenz 34
   Distribution: Dr. Richard Garwin (3) Richard Krajcik, MS B218 IBM
   Research Division Los Alamos National Laboratory Thomas J. Watson
   Research Center P.O. Box 1663 P.O. Box 218 Los Alamos, NM 87545
   Yorktown Heights, NY 10598 Allan Hauer, MS E527 Michael R. Anastasio,
   Mailcode L-160 Los Alamos National Laboratory Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory P.O. Box 1663 P.O. Box 808 Los Alamos, NM 87545
   Livermore, CA 94551-0808 Bob Chrien, MS B220 Richard A. Ward, Mailcode
   L-013 Los Alamos National Laboratory Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory P.O. Box 1663 P.O. Box 808 Los Alamos, NM 87545 Livermore,
   CA 94551-0808 Fritz Swenson, MS B220 Bill Bookless, Mailcode L-160 Los
   Alamos National Laboratory Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory P.O.
   Box 1663 P.O. Box 808 Los Alamos, NM 87545 Livermore, CA 94551-0808
   Darrell Peterson, MS B220 David Reisman, Mailcode L-041 Los Alamos
   National Laboratory Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory P.O. Box
   1663 P.O. Box 808 Los Alamos, NM 87545 Livermore, CA 94551-0808 Orval
   E. Jones Jim Hammer, Mailcode L-018 12321 Eastridge Dr. N.E. Lawrence
   Livermore National Laboratory Albuquerque, NM 87112-4604 P.O. Box 808
   Livermore, CA 94551-0808 David Forster A.W.E. Bob Cauble, Mailcode
   L-041 Building H36 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Aldermaston,
   Reading, Berkshire P.O. Box 808 RG7 4PR, UK Livermore, CA 94551-0808 K.
   D. Pyatt, Jr. Stirling Colgate, MS A105 Maxwell Technologies Los Alamos
   National Laboratory Systems Division P.O. Box 1663 8888 Balboa Ave. Los
   Alamos, NM 87545 San Diego, CA 92123 James A. Mercer-Smith Alan J.
   Toepfer (2) Los Alamos National Laboratory SAIC P.O. Box 1663 2109 Air
   Park Road S.E. Los Alamos, NM 87545 Albuquerque, NM 87106 Steve
   Younger, MS A105 Marshall Sluyter Los Alamos National Laboratory 707
   Smallwood Rd. P.O. Box 1663 Rockville, MD 20850 Los Alamos, NM 87545 35
   Ian D. Smith Titan Pulsed Sciences, Inc. Steve O. Dean 600 McCormick
   St. Fusion Power Associates San Leandro, CA 94577 2 Professional Dr.,
   Suite 248 Gaithersburg, MD 20879 David A. Hammer Cornell University
   William F. Brinkman, Executive Director Lab of Plasma Studies Physical
   Sciences Res. Div., Bell Labs 369 Upson Hall Lucent Technologies
   Ithaca, NY 14853 600-700 Mountain Ave., 1C-224 Murray Hill, NJ
   07974-0636 Yogi M. Gupta Institute for Shock Wave Physics Paul A.
   Fleury Washington State University Dean, UNM School of Engineering
   Pullman, WA 99164-2814 Farris Engineering, Room 107 Albuquerque, NM
   87131 Marshall N. Rosenbluth UCSD, Dept. of Phys. BO19 Venkatesh
   Narayanamurti Mayer Hall, Rm. 3230 Dean, Div. Of Eng. & Applied
   Sciences LaJolla, CA 92093 Pierce 217A Harvard University Donald Linger
   Cambridge, MA 02138 DTRA 6802 Telegraph Rd. Albert R.C. Westwood
   Alexandria, VA 22310-3398 13539 Caada del Oso High Desert Dick
   Gullickson Albuquerque, NM 87111 DTRA 6802 Telegraph Rd. M. Henry
   Hutchinson Alexandria, VA 22310-3398 Director, Central Laser Facility
   Rutherford Appleton Laboratory Chris Keane, DP-131 Chilton, Didcot U.S.
   Department of Energy Oxfordshire OX11 0QX England 19901 Germantown Road
   Germantown, MD 20874-1290 Paul Hommert AWEML, Bldg. C33.1A Gary
   Chenevert, DP-131 Aldermaston, Reading U.S. Department of Energy RG7
   4PR, England 19901 Germantown Road Germantown, MD 20874-1290 Robert
   Stevens Corporate Vice President, Strategic Development Robin Staffin,
   Lockheed Martin Corporation U.S. Department of Energy 6801 Rockledge
   Dr. 1000 Independence Avenue, SW Mail Stop 2-12 Washington, D.C. 20585
   Bethesda, MD 20817 Honorable Hans Mark Michael Henshaw Director, DDR&E
   President, Energy & Environment Sector 3030 Defense Pentagon Lockheed
   Martin Corporation Washington, D.C. 20301-3030 6801 Rockledge Dr. Mail
   Stop 220 Robert DeWitt Bethesda, MD 20817 Dept. of Physics Penn State
   University 2428 2nd Avenue Altoona, PA 16602 36 Arthur K. Kerman J.
   Davis Physics Dept., MIT Naval Research Laboratory 6-305 Code 6720 77
   Massachusetts Ave. 4555 Overlook Avenue SW Cambridge, MA 02139-4307
   Washington, D.C. 20375-5320 Pete Lyons R. E. Reinovsky, F672 Office of
   Senator Pete Domenici Los Alamos National Laboratory 328 Hart Senate
   Office Building P.O. Box 1663 Washington, D.C. 20510 Los Alamos, NM
   87544 Glen Dahlbacka A. Toor, L-041 MS 4-230 Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory Lawrence Berkeley Lab P.O. Box 808 Berkeley, CA
   94720 Livermore, CA 94550 Nino Pereira J. S. DeGroot Eco Pulse, Inc.
   Dept. of Applied Science P.O. Box 528 UC Davis Springfield, VA 22150
   Davis, CA 95616 Dale M. Meade G. W. Cooper PPPL Chemical & Nuclear
   Engineering Dept. P.O. Box 451 University of New Mexico Princeton, NJ
   08543 Albuquerque, NM 87131 Robert J. Goldston, Director R. M.
   Gilgenbach PPPL Dept. of Nuclear Engineering P.O. Box 451 University of
   Michigan Princeton, NJ 08543 2355 Bonisteel Blvd. Ann Arbor, MI 48109
   Miklos Porkolab, Director Plasma Science & Fusion Ctr., MIT Major D.
   Bell 167 Albany St NW 16-288 DSWA Cambridge, MA 02139 6801 Telegraph
   Road Alexandria, VA 22310 J. B. Greenly Laboratory of Plasma Studies C.
   Stallings Cornell University Primex Physics International 369 Upson
   Hall 2700 Merced Street Ithaca, NY 14853 San Leandro, CA 94577 R. R.
   Peterson W. Rix Fusion Technology Institute Maxwell Technologies
   University of Wisconsin 8888 Balboa 1500 Johnson Drive San Diego, CA
   92123 Madison, WI 53706 D. Welch P. F. Ottinger Mission Research
   Corporation Naval Research Laboratory 1720 Randolph Rd. SE Code 6770
   Albuquerque, NM 87106 4555 Overlook Avenue SW Washington, D.C.
   20375-5320 M. Krishnan Alameda Applied Sciences 2235 Polvorosa Avenue,
   Suite 230 San Leandro, CA 94577 37 MS 1181 Clint Hall, 1610 M. G.
   Haines MS 0513 Al Romig, 1000 (5) Department of Physics MS 1191 Mary
   Ann Sweeney, 1670 Prince Consort Road MS 1152 Mark Kiefer, 1642
   Imperial College MS 1152 Larry Schneider, 1643 London SW7 2 BZ, England
   MS 1178 Guy Donovan, 1636 MS 1178 Finis Long, 1637 H. Bluhm MS 1391
   David Thomson, 1614 FZKA MS 1187 Johann Seamen, 1670-1 Karlsruhe MS
   1178 Ed Weinbrecht, 1639 P.O. Box 3640 MS 1178 Doug Bloomquist, 1630
   (10) Karlsruhe D-7513, Fed Rep Germany MS 0101 C. Paul Robinson, 1 MS
   0323 Don Cook, 1900 Yitzak Maron MS 0151 Tom Hunter, 9000 Weizmann
   Institute of Science MS 0134 James Powell, 9700 Rehovot 76100, Israel
   MS 1209 James Woodard, 5922 MS 0136 Juan Ramirez, 9720 Joe Kilkenny,
   L-488 MS 0429 Steve Rottler, 2100 Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory MS 9003 Dona Crawford, 9900 P.O. Box 808 MS 1435 Kay Hays,
   1800 Livermore, CA 94550 MS 0630 Pace VanDevender, 9010 MS 0511 John
   Cummings, 1010 Ken Schultz MS 0511 Brian Damkroger, 1020 General
   Atomics MS 0839 Gerry Yonas, 16000 P.O. Box 85608 MS 1221 Russ
   Skocypec, 15002 San Diego, CA 92186 MS 0130 Joe Polito, 1200 MS 1165
   Bill Guyton, 15300 Stephen Obenschain MS 1155 Wendland Beezhold, 15300
   Naval Research Laboratory, Code 6700 MS 1079 David Williams, 1700 4555
   Overlook Avenue SW MS 0177 Jerry Hanks, 12141 (10) Washington, DC 20375
   MS 9018 Central Technical files, 8945-1 MS 0899 Technical Library, 9616
   (2) Bob McCrory MS 0612 Review & Approval Desk, 9612 Laboratory for
   Laser Energetics For DOE/OSTI University of Rochester 250 East River
   Road Rochester, NY 14623 DOE/KAO Jeannette Norte DOE/KAO Mike Zamorski
   DOE/KAO George Laskar MS 1152 Mike Desjarlais, 1643 MS 1193 Mike Cuneo,
   1673 MS 1186 Joel Lash, 1674 MS 1193 John Porter, 1673 MS 1194 Rick
   Spielman, 1644 MS 1190 Jeff Quintenz, 1600 (10) MS 1191 Keith Matzen,
   1670 MS 1181 Jim Asay, 1610 MS1179 Jim Lee, 15340 MS 1168 Chris Deeney,
   1612 MS 1196 Ray Leeper, 1677 MS 1186 Tom Mehlhorn, 1674 MS 1193 John
   Maenchen, 1645 MS 1194 Dillon McDaniel, 1640 MS 1181 Marcus Knudson,
   1610 38 39
