http://www.sco.ca.gov/eo/dmv/

   Office of the Controller, State of California
   Home Page
   Get Acrobat Reader

                              DMV Rebate/Refund


   Documents provided in PDF (Portable Document Format) require the free
   Adobe Acrobat Reader software. Click the Get Acrobat Reader button to
   download and install the Reader to integrate with your web browser.

                  Vehicle License Fee - Rebates and Offsets

   The Vehicle License Fee (VLF) is the portion of the registration
   renewal fees paid in lieu of personal property taxes. Legislation that
   became effective during the summer of 2000 established a tax rebate for
   32.5 percent of the vehicle license fee, requiring the State
   Controller's Office to send a rebate check to the vehicle's owner of
   record. This rebate is in addition to the 35 percent VLF offset
   reflected in the annual VLF billing. The first rebate checks were
   mailed in late January, 2001 and if you register your vehicle between
   January 1, 2001 and June 30, 2001, you can expect to receive your
   rebate within 30 days.
   Legislation signed into law by the Governor on April 19, 2001,
   effective July 1, repeals the rebate provisions of the vehicle license
   fee reduction aspect of the law, and instead provides for a direct rate
   reduction. Therefore, effective with vehicle registrations due in July,
   taxpayers will receive a VLF bill with an offset of the full 67.5
   percent.
   The State Controller's Office will continue to mail rebate checks to
   taxpayers with vehicle registrations due January 1, 2001 to June 30,
   2001.

   The following web site provides additional information regarding the
   Vehicle License Fee Rebate:
   www.dmv.ca.gov/faq/vlfrebate.htm

   Smog Impact Fee Refund

   If you paid the $300 smog impact fee, you may be entitled to a $300
   refund plus interest.
   To claim your refund, you must complete a DMV claim form and mail it to
   the address on the form.

   You may obtain an Application for Refund from your local DMV office, or
   download the form DMV 160D from the DMV website.

   The following web site provides additional information regarding the
   SMOG Impact Fee Refund:
   www.dmv.ca.gov/online/smoginq/index.htm

   You may also contact the DMVs Smog Impact Fee Refund Unit at (916)
   229-0369, and a claim form will be mailed to you.
