http://collabrasuite.pnl.gov/disclaimer.nsf/banner?readform&demo/welcome.nsf

                   [0.7E?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=gif]

   Security Notice

   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

   Privacy Notice

   We collect no personal information about you without your knowledge
   when you visit this site, although you may choose to provide this
   information to us in specific instances. However, we do collect and
   store certain information automatically:
     * the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you
       access the Internet (e.g., 123.456.789.012), whether yours
       individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service
       Provider (ISP)
     * the date and time you access our site
     * the pages you visit (recorded by the text and graphics files that
       compose that page)
     * the Internet address of the web site from which you linked directly
       to our site.

   We use the summary statistics to help us make our site more useful to
   visitors, such as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest to visitors, and for other purposes such as determining the
   site's technical design specifications and identifying system
   performance or problem areas.

   This information is NOT shared with anyone beyond the support staff for
   this web site, except when required by law enforcement investigation,
   and is used only as a source of anonymous statistical information.

   Comments Sent by E-Mail

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in an e-mail
   message containing your comments or questions. We use this information
   to improve our service to you or to respond to your request. There are
   times when your message is forwarded, as e-mail, to other employees who
   may be better able to help you. Except as required by authorized law
   enforcement investigations, we do not share our e-mail with outside
   organizations.

   General Disclaimer

   This document was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency
   of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government
   nor any agency thereof, nor Battelle Memorial Institute, nor any of
   their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any
   legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or
   usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process
   disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately
   owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product,
   process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or
   otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any
   agency thereof, or Battelle Memorial Institute. The views and opinions
   of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those
   of the United States Government or any agency thereof.

                    PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY
                                 operated by
                                  BATTELLE
                                   for the
                     UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
                      under Contract DE-AC06-76RLO 1830
