http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/who.html

   Technology Transfer Program Technology Transfer Program
   Who we are Patents and Licenses Other Links Site Map
   Who we are...

    "The technologies we need to reach the stars are the engines to drive
                              America's future"

   Utilizing a unique combination of programs designed to innovate,
   incubate, and accelerate technology advances-from conception through
   development, demonstration, and commercial realization, Technology
   Transfer strives to serve the needs of the Center's product lines,
   NASA's enterprise objectives, and American industry.

   Center Director's Discretionary Fund
   The Center Director has assigned management responsibility for his
   discretionary fund to Technology Transfer. CDDF provides an opportunity
   for an individual or a group to plan and conduct a well-defined
   research or technology development project in a scientific or technical
   area. CDDF-sponsored projects are innovative efforts that support new
   ideas or concepts to serve NASA and Center Product Line objectives. The
   projects are performed largely in-house, involving outside groups or
   contractors only to the extent necessary. An important CDDF objective
   is to cultivate Marshall talent through "hands-on" experience. Calls
   for CDDF proposals are made on an annual basis.

   Technology Reporting
   New technology reporting is essential to achieving NASA's goal to
   commercialize aeronautics and space technological advances. Technology
   Transfer has the responsibility of implementing programs that
   facilitate and monitor the capture of technological assets (including
   software) resulting from innovations developed by NASA employees or
   under NASA funding agreements. Monetary rewards to inventors are one
   incentive for reporting, as well as commercialization assessment,
   compliance with Export Control, and proper coordination with the
   Center's Patent Counsel. Sharing this leading-edge technology through
   various modes is another goal of the program.

   Technology Partnerships
   Technology Transfer is discovering novel solutions for filling the
   technology needs of NASA, while supplying NASA ingenuity in ways that
   help America grow through partnership opportunities with industry,
   small business, academia, and other Government entities. Technology
   Transfer is the Center's "one-stop-shopping" point for any partnership
   facilitation and/or coordination with entities external to the Center
   (reimbursable or non-reimbursable Space Act Agreements, including
   Memoranda of Understanding and Memoranda of Agreement).

   bullet Dual-use technology development partnerships: Fostering
   partnerships to facilitate the development of technologies having
   dual-use aerospace and non-aerospace applications. Such partnerships
   meet product line and NASA enterprise needs while assisting U.S.
   industry with competitiveness through technological advancement.

   bullet Technology deployment partnerships: Provide strategic deployment
   opportunities to tailor NASA technologies for new applications serving
   diverse commercial applications. Such partnerships also afford
   opportunities to address important social needs, such as national
   economic security interests, public safety, law enforcement issues,
   healthcare improvements, and humanitarian efforts.

   Facilities Commercialization
   Marshall has a number of unique facilities that can be used by
   educational and commercial partners on a cost reimbursement basis.
   Technology transfer pursues new commercializations of these unique
   facilities through external partnership agreements, resulting in
   mutually beneficial arrangements for U.S. industry and the Center.
   Examples include:
   bullet Productivity Enhancement Complex (PEC)

   bullet Dynamic Test Facilities

   bullet Optics Laboratory

   bullet Environmental Test Facility

   bullet Hot Gas Facility

   bullet Friction Stir Welding Facilities

   bullet Microgravity Development Laboratory

   Small Business Programs
   These programs leverage America's entrepreneurial resources to
   stimulate innovation in the private sector and assist small businesses
   in meeting research and development goals, increase commercial
   application of their research, and to encourage participation of
   disadvantage persons and women-owned businesses.
   bullet Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business
   Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs: Congressionally mandated programs
   that seek innovative concepts from industry which addresses both NASA's
   program needs and offer commercial application potential. Technology
   Transfer personnel coordinate all solicitation and selection processes
   (Phase I and II projects), and foster development of Phase III
   commercializations.

   bullet Biztech: Provide support to North Alabama's first
   high-technology, small business incubator specializing in nurturing
   start-up companies until they are ready to stand on their own.

   bullet Minority and Woman-Owned Business (MOB/WOB) National Initiative:
   Support and facilitate federally mandated programs designed to provide
   assistance directly to minority-and woman-owned technology based
   companies.

   Technology Education Projects for Economic Development
   Establishing joint ventures for the mutual benefit of industry,
   academia, and the Center, Technology Transfer plays a role in providing
   unique capabilities.

   Technology Transfer Outreach Projects and Strategic Alliances
   Technology Transfer is utilizing a number of avenues to inform
   industry, academia, and the public about NASA's technology transfer and
   commercialization mission, and the available mechanisms for working
   with Marshall. Technology Transfer partners with existing national,
   regional, state, and local technology transfer networks. Through the
   synergistic efforts of these networks, Technology Transfer targets
   industries with potential aerospace technology needs and partnership
   potential and works with these organizations to enhance their
   technological capabilities. Additional outreach efforts that serve to
   increase awareness of the space program and NASA's relevance to
   American taxpayers include publications in technology-based media,
   distribution of success stories, and personal visits and briefings.

   Technology Commercialization
   Planning for the commercialization of technologies starts with
   understanding the potential applications of the new technology.
   Technology Transfer provides a resource for Marshall Directorates and
   product lines to assist with developing a strategic plan for infusing
   NASA-developed assets into industry. A vision of success is essential
   during the early stage of development. Technology Transfer personnel
   can offer guidance on this process to Marshall program/project managers
   using their experience, insight, and access to a number of external
   resources to help with the commercialization of technologies.

   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map
