http://www.international.energy.gov/students.html

                               Students Pages

                  History of the U.S. Department of Energy

                             D.O.E. Headquarters

                            DOE History Home Page

   D.O.E. Seal The origins of the Department of Energy can be traced to
   the Manhattan Project and the race to develop the atomic bomb during
   World War II. In 1942, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers established the
   Manhattan Engineer District to manage the project. Following the war,
   Congress engaged in a vigorous and contentious debate over civilian
   versus military control of the atom. The Atomic Energy Act of 1946
   settled the debate by creating the Atomic Energy Commission, which took
   over the Manhattan Engineer District's sprawling scientific and
   industrial complex.


   extra space
   Atomic Energy Commission

                          Atomic Energy Commission

   The Atomic Energy Commission was specifically established to maintain
   civilian government control over the field of atomic research and
   development. During the early Cold War Years, the Commission focused on
   designing and producing nuclear reactors for naval propulsion. The
   Atomic Energy Act of 1954 ended exclusive government use of the atom
   and began the growth of the commercial nuclear power industry, giving
   the Atomic Energy Commission authority to regulate the new industry. In
   response to the changing needs in the mid-1970s, the Atomic Energy
   Commission was abolished and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974
   created two new agencies: the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to regulate the
   nuclear power industry and the Energy Research and Development
   Administration to manage the nuclear weapon, naval reactor and energy
   development programs.



   Energy Research and Development Administration

               Energy Research and Development Administration

   However, the extended energy crisis of the 1970s soon demonstrated the
   need for unified energy organization and planning. The Department of
   Energy Organization Act brought the federal government's agencies and
   programs into a single agency. The Department of Energy, activated on
   October 1, 1977, assumed the responsibilities of the Federal Energy
   Administration, the Energy Research and Development Administration, the
   Federal Power Commission, and parts and programs of several other
   agencies. The Energy Research and Development Administration lasted
   less than three years.

                     United States Department of Energy

                               D.O.E. Programs

   hydroelectric
   coal
   windmills The Department of Energy provided the framework for a
   comprehensive and balanced national energy plan by coordinating and
   administering the energy functions of the federal government. The
   Department undertook responsibility for long-term, high-risk research
   and development of energy technology, federal power marketing, energy
   conservation, the nuclear weapons program, energy regulatory programs,
   and a central energy data collection and analysis program.

   Over its two decade history, the Department has shifted its emphasis
   and focus as the needs of the nation have changed. During the late
   1970s, the Department emphasized energy development and regulation. In
   the 1980s, nuclear weapons research, development and production took a
   priority. Since the end of the Cold War, the Department has focused on
   environmental clean up of the nuclear weapons complex, nonproliferation
   and stewardship of the nuclear stockpile, energy efficiency and
   conservation, and technology transfer and industrial competitiveness.

   Today, the Department of Energy contributes to the future of the nation
   by ensuring our energy security, maintaining the safety and reliability
   of our nuclear stockpile, cleaning up the environment from the legacy
   of the Cold War, and developing innovations in science and technology.
   oil well
   nuclear power
   solar power


                            International Affairs
