http://monitor.ibb.gov/intro.html

   ImageMap - turn on images!!!

   [USEMAP:navbar1.gif]

Last updated August 4, 2001
by Bill Whitacre

   [e-mailtower.gif]

Introduction & Philosophy

Why bother?

   If you think about it, there are only two things that make a broadcast
   a success or failure. It must be easily heard/seen by the audience AND
   the programming must be interesting enough to get and hold the
   audiences' attention. If you can't do these two things, you're not
   going to have much success.

As long as we're doing this...

   So...if you're going to spend 10's of millions of dollars annually on
   broadcasting, you should make every effort to do it well, right?.
   Monitoring is THE quality control mechanism we use to determine the
   technical effectiveness of our efforts. Fortunately, someone else is
   responsible for program content!

   Technically speaking, the bottom line is; can IBB programs be heard
   where they're supposed to be? Without monitoring it would be pretty
   difficult to find out. As long as; high frequency propagation
   prediction models are imperfect, chaos reigns in shortwave spectrum
   management and we depend - in some areas - on 'gatewayed' delivery
   mechanisms, monitoring will be an essential activity.

Predicting shortwave signal reception is like predicting the weather...

   Determining the audibility of a shortwave signal in a distant target
   area is a lot like determining the weather. Both are statistical in
   nature and have computer models that assist in prediction but rely
   heavily on sampling in the area to determine with any certainty what is
   actually going on.

   There are two major factors that you or I have very little control over
   that determine weather you will hear a shortwave broadcast or not:
   propagation and interference. Today's propagation prediction models are
   pretty good (about 90% accurate) but imagine if the predicted maximum
   useable frequency (MUF) for a broadcast that you were responsible for
   was just 2 MHz off (not uncommon). You might be operating in the 11 MHz
   band when you should be in the 9 MHz band! And what if you picked the
   right band but the wrong frequency! Someone else might be using the
   frequency you've picked and they didn't show up on any of the lists you
   have.

   The only way to be aware of these and many other problems is by
   monitoring.

Need more data...

   To forecast weather just for the United States, there exist thousands
   of sampling points, thousands of direct and contract employees to
   maintain and analyze data, and tens of millions of dollars spent
   annually in hardware and software support. To determine the worldwide
   audibility of IBB broadcasts we have about 80 sampling points - only
   some of which are full-time - less than 20 employees worldwide and a
   budget of under 1 million dollars.

   Not much of a comparison. And yet most other international broadcasters
   have far less!

We believe...

   Monitoring is all about data collection and management. Our philosophy
   is to get as much high-quality data as possible into the hands of our
   schedulers as quickly as possible in a format that allows them to make
   meaningful improvements in reception quality.

   The fun comes in trying to accomplish this lofty goal in the real
   world!

   Read on to see how we go about it ... [next.gif]

   [topclo.JPEG]
