http://rs6.loc.gov/ammem/amfuture.html

                    ---------- American Memory -----------

                             Future Collections

                      Collections currently in progress

   Chinese in California, 1850-1920
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   Nineteenth and early twentieth century Chinese immigration to
   California and the West is the focus of this collection from the
   Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley. The
   collection contains some 12,500 items, including photographs, cartoons,
   personal idaries, business records, broadsides, pamphlets, and other
   printed matter.

   The Church in the Southern Black Community: Beginnings to 1920
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   This collection from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
   traces how Southern African Americans experienced and transformed
   Protestant Christianity into the central institution of community life.
   Some 19,000 pages from approximately 100 works include autobiographies,
   spirituals, sermons, church reports, religious periodicals, and
   denominational histories.

   Civil War Photographs, Part II
   These photographs, most of which were taken under the supervision of
   Mathew B. Brady (1823?-1896) during and immediately after the American
   Civil War, offer almost encyclopedic coverage of the Union Army's
   personnel, facilities, and activities during this period, including
   preparations for battle and the aftermath of battle. The collection
   also includes images of Confederate and Union officers and enlisted
   men.

   County Land Ownership Maps and Atlases
   Large wall maps and atlases produced by commercial publishers during
   the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries show land ownership in
   individual counties throughout the United States. This collection will
   be a major research tool for genealogical, geographic, and
   local-history researchers.

   Emile Berliner and the Birth of the Record Industry
   This collection includes manuscripts and Gramophone records of Emile
   Berliner, one of the central figures in the development of sound
   recording. Berliner's "His Master's Voice" trademark became the most
   famous and recognizable trademark in the world by 1915.

   The First American West: The Ohio River Valley, 1750-1820
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   This collection from the University of Chicago Library with the Filson
   Club Historical Society of Louisville, Kentucky assembles 745 items
   from the rare books, pamphlets, newspapers, maps, prints, and
   manuscripts collected by Reuben T. Durrett and by the Filson Club
   Historical Society. The materials document the settlement of the Ohio
   River Valley from 1750 to 1820.

   Haymarket Affair: Chicago Anarchists on Trial
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   This collection from the Chicago Historical Society documents the trial
   that followed the violent confrontation between police, workers, and
   political protestors in Chicago's Haymarket Square in 1886. It includes
   over 5,500 pages of trial transcripts, evidence books, broadsides,
   pamphlets, contemporary press accounts, and images of selected museum
   artifacts relating to the trial.

   Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789
   This collection contains documents that were written by the delegates
   to Congress and that bear directly on their work during their years of
   actual service in the Congress, 1774-89.

   Maritime Westward Expansion
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   A selection of 7,500 items from Mystic Seaport Museum's archival
   collections includes logbooks, diaries, letters, business papers,
   images, imprints and ephemera, and maps and charts. The unique maritime
   perspective of these materials offers a rich look at the events,
   culture, beliefs, and personal experiences associated with the
   settlement of California, Alaska, Hawaii, Texas, and the Pacific
   Northwest.

   Moldenhauer Archives of Music Manuscripts
   Over 100 autograph music manuscripts, correspondence, literary
   documents, and other materials illustrate the history of Western music
   from Gregorian chant to the twentieth century. This outstanding
   collection includes manuscripts by Beethoven, Bloch, Brahms, Chopin,
   Franck, Mendelssohn, and Puccini.

   Music for the Nation: Sheet Music from the Civil War Era
   As part of the ongoing American Memory sheet music collections, the
   Music Division has chosen approximately 3,000 pieces of sheet music
   from the 1860s to represent the Civil War period.

   Music for the Nation: American Sheet Music, 1820-1860
   Complementing Music for the Nation: American Sheet Music, 1870-1885,
   this collection from the Music Division draws upon thousands of songs
   and instrumental pieces deposited for copyright to offer an in-depth
   look at the development of popular music in America. It contains a
   variety of music by American and European composers, including songs,
   marches, dances, and operatic arias. Most of the works are simplified
   for the piano or piano and voice.

   Pioneer Trails: Overland to Utah and the Pacific, 1847-1869
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   This Utah Academic Libraries Consortium digital collection consists of
   155 items from 59 diaries written between 1847 and 1869, along with 16
   maps, 75 photographs and illustrations, and selections from five
   immigrant guides. These accounts of travel and stories of the "Overland
   Trail" provide a window to the "uncommon" and the "common" experiences
   of all westering peoples.

   Reclaiming the Everglades: South Florida's Natural History, 1884-1934
   LC/Ameritech Award Winner
   More than 9,000 texts and photographs from the University of Miami,
   Florida International University, and the Historical Museum of South
   Florida document the intertwined natural and human histories of the
   Everglades region through photographs, drawings, writings,
   correspondence, and related materials from politicians, landowners,
   real-estate companies, scientists, naturalists, engineers, and
   Indian-rights activists.

   Reports of Slavery Trials
   The documents in this collection from the Law Library of Congress
   describe trials and legal proceedings concerning slaves in free
   jurisdictions, fugitive slaves, slave revolts, the African slave trade,
   and abolitionists in the North and South.

   Selected Papers of Edward and Marian MacDowell
   This collection chronicles Edward and Marian MacDowell's contributions
   to the arts, including the establishment of The MacDowell Colony
   retreat for artists, writers and composers. Approximately 1500 items
   spanning more than 100 years include Edward's letters, holograph scores
   and first editions of music, sketchbooks, biographical information;
   Marian's writings and correspondence; and records and photographs of
   the MacDowell Colony.

   Tribal Codes and Charters
   Historical materials from the Law Library of Congress's Rare Book Room
   detail the history of the Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek, and
   Seminole Nations. The documents range from an early Cherokee book
   published in 1835 to materials concerning Oklahoma statehood and its
   Native American citizens in 1907.
   Horizontal Dividing Line American Memory | Search ALL Collections |
   Collection Finder | Learning Page Horizontal Dividing Line [LC Logo]
   Library of Congress
   URL: www.loc.gov


    Questions: American Memory Help Desk

   am Nov-16-2001
