http://scarpia.lbl.gov/lbl_hif_rsch/beam_comb_exp.html

   [hiflogotiny.jpg]

                          Beam Combining Experiment

   Merging four or more separate beams into a smaller number of transport
   channels is an important economically motivated feature of a number of
   designs for induction-linac drivers. At lower ion energies, beam
   transport is most effectively performed in many small-aperture
   electrostatic focusing channels, due in part to lattice spacing and
   voltage-holding considerations. At a transition energy between 10 and
   100 MeV, it becomes economically favorable to use a smaller number of
   larger-aperture magnetic focusing channels. The combining of the beams
   into a single channel will undoubtedly increase their emittance, and so
   the technical objective is to carry out this operation with acceptably
   low emittance growth and beam loss.

   [combiner.jpg] The combiner assembly was completed in the summer of
   1996. The figure shows the ion sources at the far right, followed by
   the focusing quadrapoles.

   This is, we believe, the first work of its kind. Previous experiments
   merged beams that had been created by passing a single beam through a
   mask containing several holes, and the merging was usually accomplished
   by simply transporting the beams on intersecting courses and relying on
   space-charge effects to make them coalesce. The new experiment will be
   the first in which active elements bend the beam trajectories, and the
   first to merge beams with a distribution function that is consistent
   with alternating-gradient transport. Since close packing of the beams
   minimizes emittance growth, the last element of the combiner uses many
   thin charged wires surrounding the beams, rather than a small number of
   large electrodes, to produce the combined quadrupole and dipole fields.
   Clearances between the beam edge and the field-producing wires is only
   a few millimeters, making alignment and field precision crucial design
   issues. Transverse phase space changes due to transport through the
   combiner and to beam merging will be measured in MBE-4 transport
   channels.

   FourCs^+ beams, each at 3-5 mA and 200 keV, will be combined. The
   combiner, which doubles as a matching system, consists of four focusing
   channels, each with four quadrupoles plus the combined-function element
   mentioned above. Steering is provided by articulation of the sources
   and the second quadrupoles.

   As a precursor to the combiner experiment, the dynamic aperture of the
   MBE-4 transport lattice was recently measured. An attempt to transport
   ~23 mA of Cs^+ at 200 keV resulted in no more than 20 mA of current
   being measured at the end of the channel. Earlier, three-dimensional
   simulations of this transport problem had indicated a significant
   decrease in transportable charge above 17 mA due to the increasing
   strength of anharmonic focusing fields with radius. From both the
   experimental and the theoretical results, we feel confident that beam
   combining experiments with 4-5 mA will benchmark the design codes and
   allow exploration of beam-combining strategies that minimize emittance
   growth.

   For more information on this experiment contact Peter Seidl

   [redstar1.gif] Return to Current LBNL IFE Research Activities
