http://allen.senate.gov/PressOffice/FloorStatementOnTerroristAttacks.htm


                               [Masthead3.jpg]

                               [thinline.jpg]

   For Release: Wednesday, September 12, 2001
   Contact: Matt Raymond
   (202) 224-4121

                         Senator George Allen Speaks
                    On Senate Floor on Terrorist Attacks

   WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator George Allen (R-Va.) today delivered the
   following statement on the Senate floor:

   Mr. President, my fellow members of the Senate: This is a very sad day
     as we witness all of the heartbreaking implications, tragedies and
    lives lost as a result of yesterday's dastardly terrorist attacks on
                             the United States.

         Yesterday's attacks were attacks not just on our particular
     Commonwealth of Virginia or State of New York or the United States;
   rather it is an attack on freedom-loving people and all the principles
               that we stand for as a unique and great nation.

     On Monday afternoon, Senator Boxer and I were ready to introduce a
   resolution condemning the suicide bombings in the Middle East. We would
      have introduced that resolution on Monday, but wanted to include
    another "whereas" clause recognizing the attacks in Israel on Sunday.
      We now see with great shock and horror that our United States are
     obviously not impervious to these suicide bombings and such vicious
                         attacks on innocent people.

      What we need to do now is coalesce. Coalesce as a people with our
   shared beliefs. Coalesce to comfort those who have lost loved ones. And
   then we must determine where we must improve and move forward to try to
     prevent such acts from occurring in the future. First, our goal and
     prayers right now must be focused on the rescue, hoping that we can
   save those who are still alive. Secondly, we need to find and ascertain
      as many details and information to determine how our security was
    breached so as to hopefully prevent it in the future. And thirdly, of
     course, we will hold accountable those who are responsible for this
                         attack and attain justice.

   Presently, we are hearing stories of great heroes just in the first day
    of recovery. People who knew that the building was going to collapse,
     but nevertheless stayed there trying to usher people out. On C-SPAN
    this morning, one of those who was just a volunteer helper knew what
    was going onwhere those who were emergency, fire and rescue workers
   and FBI agents were as wellknowing that the World Trade Building was
   going to collapse  staying there knowing those were the last minutes
                 of their life trying to save other people.

   The same is happening in Virginia where we have lost many lives, untold
       numbers, undetermined as of yet, at the Pentagon in Arlington,
    Virginia, as well as the passengers on flight 77 flying from Dulles,
    Virginia, that was hijacked and crashed into the Pentagon. Reports in
     Virginia indicate that casualties in the Pentagon may be as high as
       800, or hopefully, as low as 100. I pray to God it is as low as
                                  possible.

   There are great stories of bravery, with people going above and beyond
     what is expected, and that should give us comfort as a nation. This
      tragedy has affected many lives, and we still don't know how many
   lives. It will probably take a week if not weeks to determine how many
    lives have been lost. In the middle school that my daughter attends,
   children were crying because their parents work at the Pentagon. Others
   work at Fort Belvoir and they worried that Fort Belvoir was being hit.
     There's only maybe a couple dozen houses in our development that my
    family just moved into but one youngster who came by our house to get
    to know my children  his father was on that flight 77 from Dulles.

      So, as the days go forward, we're all going to be learning these
   stories of innocent people whose lives have been lost and the families
      that will be forever scarred with the loss of that loved one. Our
   thoughts and prayers must be with those families. Whether they're lost
      in the New York City attack which includes victims from New York,
     Connecticut and New Jersey. Lost also are many people hailing from
       Virginia. Here in the D.C. area, I am sure there are folks from
    Maryland and the District lost. Clearly people from Massachusetts and
       New England on the hijacked flight from Boston were lost. Also
        undoubtedly lost were many people from California, since the
     destination of all of those hijacked flights was to be California.

   This is truly a day that will live in infamy. History will record this
   as the most violent, insane, vile act that has ever been perpetrated on
     our homeland in the United States of America. We need to be united,
      coalesced as Americans, along with our allies in our resolve, our
     resolve to pursue these cowardly conspirators who perpetrated these
                               murderous acts.

      Our response and justice must be sure; we need to be swift in our
   assessment of culpability; and we need to be commensurately severe. In
   my view, we have allowed terrorism to go on too long, thinking that we
    could be immune from it. But nevertheless, we need to recognize that
                    we're going to have to wage warfare.

    These people have struck against the symbol of American strength and
   power. They are not, though, going to be able to weaken the will of the
   people of the United States. We will become more united, defending our
   interests and our principles. We will also stick together, not just as
     Virginians and New Yorkers, but as Americans aiding and helping the
    families who have lost loved ones in whatever way we can. The senior
    Senator from Virginia, John Warner, and I will work together to make
    sure that for those federal, military and civilian employees that the
   government will do all that we can to assist the families. And it's not
    just as Virginians. I know that the Presiding Officer of the Senate,
   Senator Nelson, from Florida, cares just as much as anybody else does.
       And so we're all going to stick together in that regard for the
            grieving families of victims and harmed communities.

     Finally, Mr. President, as we respond here at home to what we learn
    from these attacks, we cannot be tempted in any way to diminish what
   makes us a great nation. And what makes us a great nation is that this
    is a country that understands that people have fundamental God-given
   rights and liberties and our government is constituted to protect those
    rights. We cannot - in our efforts to bring justice - diminish those
                                 liberties.

    Clearly this is not a simple, normal criminal case. This is an act of
       war, and those rules of warfare may apply. But here at home and
    domestically, we need to make sure that we're not tempted to abrogate
         any civil rights such as habeas corpus, protections against
      unreasonable searches and seizures, the freedom of expression and
    peaceable assembly, or freedom of religion. And just because somebody
   may come from an ethnic background, that means nothing in the exercise
    of their rights as citizens. They are American citizens. And so let's
     make sure that in our anger and in our efforts to bring justice, we
   remember our basic foundational civil liberties and not abrogate them.

   We are a nation of laws, of good-hearted people, of loving people. And
    so I would say in closing, Mr. President, let's make sure we pray for
                 and comfort those who have lost loved ones.

    Let's get the facts, move swiftly and properly. But most importantly,
   as Americans, let's stay strong and vigilant. Let's stay resolved, and
    let's keep moving forward. Because indeed, all the world is watching
   not just the Senate; they're watching the United States and Americans.
    What will be their impression? Let's keep moving forward. We are the
   beacon for freedom-loving people in the world, and by sticking together
    we will persevere. We will achieve justice. And we'll come out safer
                          and stronger in the end.

                          Thank you, Mr. President.

                                     ###

                       Office of Senator George Allen
                  Russell Senate Office Building, Room 204
                           Washington, D.C. 20510
                            Phone: (202) 224-4024
                             Fax: (202) 224-5432
                                Send us email


                              [HomeButton.jpg]
                          [PressOfficeButton.jpg]
                           [DistrictOffices.jpg]
                          [ConsituentServices.jpg]
                            [GeorgeAllenBio.jpg]
                              [HTTFButton.jpg]
