http://www.publicdebt.treas.gov/opd/opdfaq.htm

   The Public Debt

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

               Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about the Debt


   1)

      GENERAL INFORMATION

      1.1) Where is the money spent that is borrowed from the public and who
           decides where it goes?
      1.2) What is the difference between the debt and the deficit?
      1.3) What's the difference between the Total Public Debt Outstanding
           and the Total Public Debt Subject to Limit?
      1.4) Why does the debt only change once a day? Why doesn't Treasury
           keep a rolling tab?

   2)

      MAKE UP OF THE DEBT

      2.1) Is there a report that lists the type of Treasury Securities that
           are issued to finance the debt, their related maturity dates, and
           amount outstanding?

   3)

      OWNERSHIP OF THE DEBT

      3.1) Who owns the debt?
      3.2) What is the Debt Held by the Public?
      3.3) What are Intragovernmental Holdings?
      3.4) What is the Federal Financing Bank?

   4)

      FINANCING THE DEBT

      4.1) Why does the debt sometimes go down?
      4.2) How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?
          ________________________________________________________

 1)

    GENERAL INFORMATION

    1.1) Where is the money spent that is borrowed from the public and
         who decides where it goes?

         The Bureau of Public Debt is responsible for the accounting for and
         reporting of the debt in accordance with statutory direction. The
         Bureau does not have any public policy decision making authority.

         If you are interested in the cash position of the Treasury, the
         governments budget results, and the governments financial operations,
         then please visit the Financial Management Service's website. Also,
         information concerning the "Budget of the United States" is available
         at the Government Printing Office's website.

 Return to Table of Contents


    1.2) What is the difference between the debt and the deficit?

         The deficit is the fiscal year difference between what the
         Government takes in from taxes and other revenues, called receipts, and
         the amount of money the Government spends, called outlays. The items
         included in the deficit are considered either on-budget or off-budget.
         (The off-budget items are typically comprised of the two Social
         Security trust funds, old-age and survivors insurance and disability
         insurance, and the Postal-Service fund.) Generally, on-budget outlays
         tend to exceed on-budget receipts, while off-budget receipts tend to
         exceed off-budget outlays.

         You can think of the total debt as accumulated deficits plus
         accumulated off-budget surpluses. The on-budget deficits require the
         Treasury to borrow money to raise cash needed to keep the Government
         operating. We borrow the money by selling Treasury securities like
         T-bills, notes, bonds and savings bonds to the public. Additionally,
         the Government Trust Funds are required by law to invest accumulated
         surpluses in Treasury securities. The Treasury securities issued to the
         public and to the Government Trust Funds (Intragovernmental Holdings)
         then become part of the total debt. For information concerning the
         deficit, visit the Financial Management Service website to view the
         Monthly Statement of Receipts and Outlays of the United States
         Government.

 Return to Table of Contents


    1.3) What's the difference between the Total Public Debt Outstanding
         and the Total Public Debt Subject to Limit?

         The Total Public Debt Outstanding represents the total face amount
         or principal amount of marketable and nonmarketable securities
         currently outstanding.

         The Total Public Debt Subject to Limit is the maximum amount of money
         the Government is allowed to borrow without receiving additional
         authority from Congress. Furthermore, the Total Public Debt Subject to
         Limit is the Total Public Debt Outstanding adjusted for Unamortized
         Discount on Treasury Bills and Zero-Coupon Treasury Bonds,
         Miscellaneous debt (very old debt), Debt held by the Federal Financing
         Bank and Guaranteed Debt.

 Return to Table of Contents


    1.4) Why does the debt only change once a day?   Why doesn't Treasury
         keep a rolling tab?

         Our current accounting system produces the Total Public Debt
         Outstanding amount each morning around 11:30 A.M. EST. Our system
         relies on approximately 50 different reporting entities (e.g. Federal
         Reserve Banks) to report a variety of Treasury security information to
         us. Furthermore, the bulk of information that these reporting entities
         report to us is sent all at once at the end of the day. On the
         following business day our accounting system then absorbs all of this
         information reported to us and generates the Total Public Debt
         Outstanding for the previous day. Although we continually look for
         methods to improve our process, daily accounting is still the most
         effective, efficient, and accurate manner to account for the debt.

 Return to Table of Contents


 2)

    MAKE UP OF THE DEBT

    2.1) Is there a report that lists the type of Treasury Securities
         that are issued to finance the debt, related maturity dates, and
         "Amount Outstanding"?

         The Monthly Statement of the Public Debt (MSPD) is available on-line
         in summary and full versions, list the types of Treasury Securities
         issued to finance the Debt, the related maturity dates, and the "Amount
         Outstanding".

 Return to Table of Contents


 3)

    OWNERSHIP OF THE DEBT

    3.1) Who owns the debt?

         The Treasury Bulletin, available online from the Financial Management
         Service categorizes ownership of US Government securities by types of
         investors, e.g., public, federal reserve banks, foreign investors,
         corporations, etc.

 Return to Table of Contents


    3.2) What is the Debt Held by the Public?

         Debt Held by the Public -- Is all Federal debt held by individuals,
         corporations, state or local governments, foreign governments, and
         other entities outside of the United States Government less Federal
         Financing Bank securities. Types of securities held by the public
         include, but are not limited to, Treasury Bills, Treasury Notes,
         Treasury Bonds, United States Savings Bonds, State and Local Government
         Series, Foreign Series, and Domestic Series.

 Return to Table of Contents


    3.3) What are Intragovernmental Holdings?

         Intragovernmental Holdings -- Government Account Series securities
         held by Government trust funds, revolving funds, and special funds; and
         Federal Financing Bank securities. A small amount of marketable
         securities are held by government accounts.

 Return to Table of Contents


    3.4) What is the Federal Financing Bank?

         Federal Financing Bank -- Obligations issued to the public by the
         Federal Financing Bank (FFB) to finance its operations. The amount is
         limited to $15 Billion, or other amounts as authorized in
         Appropriations Acts. FFB was established "to consolidate and reduce the
         government's cost of financing a variety of federal agencies and other
         borrowers whose obligations are guaranteed by the federal government."
         (The First Boston Corporation, The Pink Book: Handbook of U.S.
         Government & Federal Agency Securities, 34th ed., Probus, Chicago, 1990
         pp. 87-88.)

 Return to Table of Contents


 4)

    FINANCING THE DEBT

    4.1) Why does the debt sometimes go down?

         The Total Public Debt Outstanding decreases when there are more
         redemptions of Treasury securities than there are issues. The Total
         Public Debt Outstanding is a direct result of receipts and outlays. If
         the Treasury projects an increase in outlays, then it will issue
         Treasury securities to meet its obligations. This will result in an
         increase to the debt. If the Treasury projects an increase in receipts
         (e.g. taxes or other revenue), then it may not need to issue Treasury
         securities.

 Return to Table of Contents


    4.2) How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?

            Please follow these important steps to make a contribution to reduce
            the debt.
             1. Make check payable to the "Bureau of the Public Debt"
             2. In the memo section of the check, make sure you write "Gift to
                reduce the Debt Held by the Public "
             3. Mail check to -


                 ATTN  DEPT  G
         BUREAU  OF  THE  PUBLIC  DEBT
                P O  BOX  2188
         PARKERSBURG,  WV   26106-2188


 Return to Table of Contents


 This FAQ is maintained by The Bureau of the Public Debt's Office of
 Public Debt Accounting. Keep in mind that these questions may not fit
 all situations and are only intended as a guideline.

                           Updated March 13, 2001
