http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/news/press/JNCI_CCR.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   CCR News Desk


   CCR Press
   •  New High-Tech Tool Helps Diagnose Cancer
   •  Drs. I. Pastan and R. Kreitman publish results with BL-22
   •  CCR is highlighted in JNCI
   •  Cancer vaccines in CCR
   •  Targeted Toxins Begin to Live Up to Early Expectations


   Creation of Center For Cancer Research Marks Cultural Shift

   By Tracy Thompson

   For years, researchers in the Division of Basic Sciences and the
   Division of Clinical Sciences at the National Cancer Institute often
   worked independently on the same problem without knowing about the work
   of their colleagues.

   This spring, the two divisions merged to form the Center for Cancer
   Research. This cultural shift in the NCI's Intramural Program is being
   spearheaded by J. Carl Barrett, Ph.D., who serves as the new center's
   director. Barrett discussed the motivation behind the merger and his
   plans for the center with News correspondent Tracy Thompson.

   What is the mission of the CCR?

   Our mission is to conduct outstanding cutting-edge basic research on
   the causes and treatments of cancer and to translate that into clinical
   research and prevention research that will reduce the burden of cancer
   in humans. Rather than separate activities of basic and clinical
   research, we have now closely linked the basic research with the
   clinic. Another important aspect of our mission is to provide training
   to the future leaders in cancer research.

   What was the reasoning behind the merger?

   The merger takes advantage of the breadth of the CCR. We have a broad
   spectrum of scientists doing cutting-edge research in many areas. We
   have the ability to go from basic research to preclinical models to
   human trials very quickly and to develop new technologies that can be
   used in translational research.

   Furthermore, we can leverage the expertise and the infrastructure in
   the Intramural Program with academic partners, other government
   laboratories, and pharmaceutical companies. We are in the process of
   developing the infrastructure to make that possible.

   The overall goal is for the Intramural Program to have a highly
   interactive, interdisciplinary group of researchers who have access to
   technology and access to clinical investigations. While the foundation
   of the CCR will remain investigator-initiated independent research, we
   also want to create opportunities for interaction. When a researcher
   has a finding or a technology that has larger implications, the
   infrastructure we are building allows the scientist to engage a group
   of other researchers to see if the finding has the significance that is
   hoped for.

   What challenges are you facing?

   I discovered an immense commitment and desire in the divisions for the
   merger. Everyone believed the time was right to bring the basic and
   clinical researchers more closely together. I don't think there are any
   major stumbling blocks in either the development of the concept or in
   the implementation.

   We need to create a place where scientists who almost speak different
   languages can communicate. We hope to create a venue where people can
   have discussions and gain from the different perspectives of their
   colleagues.

   We are having a series of discussions about how to most efficiently
   organize the CCR, trying to open access to clinical resources and to
   new technologies, and how to challenge the intramural researchers to
   become increasingly involved in the development of new technologies and
   new approaches. Part of the problem is that many people just don't know
   of all the resources available.

   What gains do you think will be seen with these changes?

   I think we will see an increase in communication, an increase in
   interaction, and an increase in translational research. To go from the
   bench to the bedside-to use the familiar cliché—requires that you have
   more capacity than would be available to most individual investigators.
   We need an institutional infrastructure to do that.

   Just as important, in my mind, is the ability to go from the bedside
   back to the bench. There have always been challenges to the basic
   researcher, when his work shows the possibility of clinical
   application, to engage the clinical researcher. But there are also
   equal difficulties when the clinical investigator makes an important
   observation to then engage the basic scientist. Of course, the end
   result works best when both are engaged—when the lessons learned in the
   lab can be applied in the clinic and the lessons learned in the clinic
   can be applied in the laboratory.

   There were no roads built between basic and clinical research. Before
   now, people had to forge their own roads one by one. Now the system is
   much more receptive.

   When a researcher makes an observation with the potential to be
   translated into something that will have an impact on disease, we want
   to make sure that the observation can be explored. We want to still
   supply the security for the investigators to follow their research, but
   also to have the institutional capacity to translate important findings
   rapidly.

   In this new paradigm in the Intramural Program, how will the
   investigators in the CCR be reviewed?

   The vast majority of our resources will be given to individual
   investigators and will go through the traditional intramural NIH review
   process. Our review process emphasizes the retrospective view of the
   research equally with review of proposed research.

   There is constant debate about the proper amount of retrospective
   versus prospective in a review. By having a retrospective review, you
   can take more risk. You can try things that people may not accept at
   first. You don't always know if something will work until you try. But
   at the same time, you may support less than great ideas that would
   benefit from input from peers.

   We want to provide some stability so that researchers can try things
   and take chances that might not be possible outside, and, at the same
   time, maintain the highest standards.

   We also want the opportunities to create programs that will be reviewed
   as programs and will have multiple investigators involved. The [NCI]
   Board of Scientific Counselors will review these programs, but the
   individual investigator who wants to contribute to these programs will
   not be risking his or her individual research program by participating.

   The rationale for the Intramural Program is that we can do something
   for the mission of the NCI. The researchers and the Intramural Program
   have to be viewed in the context of our value to the mission of the
   NCI. I challenge the CCR investigators to consider the mission of the
   institute. That's a cultural shift.

   Does this mean that the NCI's Intramural Program will be driven by
   specific research goals?

   We want to have the infrastructure to do translational research, yet we
   want to still invest heavily in basic research. We want to invest
   heavily in individuals. If we took half our money and put it into
   infrastructure, we wouldn't be as good as if we invest in individuals.
   But if we put all of our money into individuals, we wouldn't be as good
   as if we put some of our money into the infrastructure to help the
   individuals. That is especially true today, when research is so
   technology driven and interdisciplinary. If each individual has to
   develop technology independently, it is, obviously, not very efficient.

   We need to find the balance-to know how much to put into the
   infrastructure. That's not a decision that I can make sitting in my
   office. That has to be a community decision.

   I think what has changed is that there is more openness in the process.
   Previously, people felt they didn't understand how the resources were
   distributed. In any situation, if the system is closed there will be a
   feeling of unfairness-even if things are fair. So we have to
   communicate and we have to show people that the system is fair and
   open.

   How does the Center for Cancer Research fit into the National Cancer
   Institute?

   The NCI has invested substantially in developing new tools and new
   technologies for exploration. We want the Intramural Program to be an
   important component of that enterprise.

   We are trying to build partnerships and encourage interdisciplinary
   research. We're moving from a culture of the individual scientist
   working within his or her own laboratory to individual scientists
   working within the community of the Intramural Program and within the
   network of the cancer research community-across the private sector,
   government, and academia. CCR will also serve as a model to facilitate
   translational research.

   We hope that the Intramural Program can be a resource for generating
   ideas that will help guide the direction of the NCI-to be an
   experimental laboratory for new ideas and technologies, and new ways of
   interdisciplinary research. We think that the Intramural Program is an
   important resource for the NCI.

   We can provide conduits and capabilities for investigators in many
   areas of cancer research-the academic centers as well as the
   pharmaceutical centers. We can bring these together in a rapid way.
   This is good for the individual researcher, it's good for the cancer
   program, and, eventually, it's good for the cancer patient.

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
