http://coolspace.gsfc.nasa.gov/greetings.html

   [coolinfo.gif]

                    New NASA Initiative - July 13, 2001
   Purchase Order Information Download Proposal and P.O. files
                              In Word 6.0 format
   Background:

   - The next step in the evolution of referencing NASA data products
   - Utilizes current advances in Information Technology

   Clearly NASA has a wealth of information and data products that ought
   to be useful in the education community. However, how many teachers
   have the time to peruse through our 6000 plus websites to see if they
   can find something they can use in their curriculum?
   This is the problem that we are trying to deal with. We have enlisted a
   number of teachers to take their curriculum to our technologists here
   at Goddard Space Flight Center. The technologists can guide the
   teachers to specific products or places to find things that we are
   doing in their area of interest. Then, the teacher is able to sort out
   some really useful items such as:
   Satellite images with the global view, long-term trend data, in-depth
   analyses, modern, hands-on applications of principles they are
   teaching, career paths with marketable skills, and more.
   We believe that this cooperation identifies those things we do that
   will actually be useful in the classrooms, since teachers are the
   judges, not us.
   We then help the teachers turn those materials into some really useful
   nuggets. These nuggets are in the form of independent building blocks
   on a given subject, which the teachers already intend to cover in their
   normal lesson plans.
   They generally fall into five classes:
     * Compressed images
     * Slide Shows (Graphs, charts, etc)
     * Text files
     * Audio-Visuals (movies/animation)
     * Website links

   They can be used in a variety of ways, without monopolizing the class.
   In fact, some of them might just serve to inform the teacher or to
   provide some new insight before they teach on a particular aspect of a
   given subject.

   This will be an ongoing process for us. We are building a website to
   store all the nuggets we produce, in an organized fashion. We are also
   developing a Graphical User Interface to facilitate accessing the
   materials according to topic. As you drill down to the specific topic
   you want, you will be shown a list of whatever nuggets we have produced
   so far. You can view the material and decide what to drop into your
   "shopping cart". The selected materials are downloaded to you via the
   Internet when you're ready.

   One suite of audio-visual products we produce includes interviews and
   live web casts. Teacher will have our technologists answering specific
   questions, giving current examples, explaining their research or the
   tools they use, etc., whatever is deemed useful. Once you get these
   movies back in your own computer, you could elect to project them to
   your class or to just archive them for individual references. The web
   casts, however, are live. Here you can virtually participate with NASA
   in the field from your computer. When we follow some scientists into
   the field where they are conducting research, your class can be with
   us. You can see us and hear us on your computer and the teacher can
   coordinate a chat session where your students can ask questions live.
   We often encourage progressive teachers to meet us in the field with a
   few outstanding students and get some unique hands-on experience. They
   pay their own way, but we all stay together and NASA is able to open
   some special doors so that we all get much more out of the effort.
   Some of our field trips are documented elsewhere on this COOLSPACE
   website, under Virtual Trips.

   We realize that everyone out there does not have a very high bandwidth
   Internet connection. This will make downloading many of our high volume
   data products particularly difficult. There are a few alternatives
   available now to address this need, which we can recommend.

   We have experimented with a digital satellite service, DirecPC, for
   about two years. Our materials are uploaded to a digital satellite and
   then anyone in the footprint of the continental USA can receive them
   via a 21-inch antenna system and a PC. To find out more about this
   option, go to this website, http://optistreams.com.
   Data products of all types are distributed directly into a server
   computer at schools anywhere in the USA, via satellite. This multicast
   link will handle very large files that are too large for a typical
   Internet connection. For example this program will enable schools to
   access video and audio clips, interactive multi-media presentations,
   very high resolution satellite images, and some raw satellite imagery
   data that your students can post-process themselves. Training to use
   these tools is not a major problem since they are becoming routine.
   However, training sessions of all kinds will be scheduled periodically
   via the distance learning link. These will include networking classes,
   for example, where the tech support persons at each school can learn
   how to wire their LAN and include this new service. This has been an
   issue where schools are only now recognizing the need for technical
   computer support.

   Our NASA team of educators is following established curricula initially
   in the areas of Earth Science and Physics at the Secondary School
   level. They are embellishing each chapter with materials that they
   produce in an ongoing process. This will be expanded to other
   disciplines in time, such as Biology and Chemistry as the program
   matures.

   Sincerely,
   NASA Mike, NASA-Goddard

                            Component Breakdown:
    To receive the GOES satellite data, a small 21-inch DirecPC dish must
    be installed. A computer that will act as a data receiver and network
   server must also be installed. While the specifications will be updated
   as technology becomes more powerful and less expensive, the components
                  for a nominal computer are listed below.

         [dpcdish.gif] 21-inch DirecPC System:
                         * 21-inch DirecPC dish
                         * PCI receiver board
                         * antenna mounting kit
                         * 100 foot RG-58 coaxial cable

         [server.jpg]  Computer Server System:
                         * To be determined at the time of purchase

   [3Dnasa.jpg] Last Updated: 1/27/99
                NASA Point of Contact: Michael A. Comberiate
                COOLTeam: David Beverley Sr.
