http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/upper_republican_nrd.asp

   Upper Republican NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Upper Republican NRD image      UPPER REPUBLICAN NRD

   Office Information

   Nadine Bishop
   District Conservationist
                           1411 Broadway
                           P.O. Box 1079
                           Imperial, NE 69033-1079
                                                  Phone: (308) 874-2219
                                                  Fax: (308) 874-2402

     Directory for Upper Republican NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services

     Special Projects
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [nadine-bishop.gif]
   Nadine L. Bishop
   District Conservationist
   Upper Republican NRD

     1977 -- Graduated from Fort Hays State University with Bachelor of
   Science Degree in Biological Sciences.

     1981 -- Graduated from Fort Hays State University with a Master of
   Science Degree in Biological Sciences.
   Began NRCS career in June, 1980, as a Range Conservationist at the
   McCook Field Office. Transferred to Ainsworth, NE in September, 1981,
   as a Range Conservationist. Worked as District Conservationist in
   Trenton, NE from September, 1982 through July, 1985 and in Hayes
   Center, NE from July, 1985 through July, 1991.
   Accepted the Imperial District Conservationist position in July, 1991.
   This position is responsible for all conservation efforts in the
   Benkelman, Imperial, and Grant Field Offices.
   Resource Needs and Concerns
   The Upper Republican NRD has a total of 1,7238,070 acres which make up
   the counties of Chase, Dundy, and Perkins. Approximately 56% of the
   total acres is cropland with 47% being irrigated. Approximately 40% is
   rangeland. The major crops in the NRD are wheat, corn, and dry edible
   beans with significant acres of sunflowers, millet, potatoes alfalfa,
   and forage sorghum. More than 30,000 acres of dryland cropland are
   enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program. The average annual
   precipitation ranges from 19 inches in the East to 18 inches in the
   West. Irrigation is an essential part of the farming of the NRD. The
   majority of the 452,100 acres of irrigated cropland are center pivot
   irrigated from the 3556 groundwater wells.
   A diversity of resource needs and concerns exist and have been
   identified by local leaders within the Upper Republican NRD. These
   concerns in ranked order include:
    1. Groundwater Quality
    2. Rangeland Health
    3. Riparian Area Improvement
    4. Wetlands
    5. Soil Erosion on Cropland
    6. Wildlife Habitat

   Priorities Address by NRCS
     * Groundwater Quality
       Stabilizing the decline in the level of the groundwater aquifer has
       long been the number one local priority. Local NRCS works closely
       with individual operators on improvement of irrigation
       efficiencies. This work addresses the management, utilization, and
       conservation of irrigation water. Previously funded Environmental
       Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) priority areas have targeted
       contracts which address irrigation water management. NRCS works
       with local irrigators to plan, design, and install center pivot
       conversion from high pressure systems to low pressure systems, and
       to schedule irrigation to utilize groundwater in the most efficient
       manner possible. Cost-share assistance is available for these
       conservation practices through EQIP and the Nebraska Soil and Water
       Conservation Program (NSWCP). NRCS has an Irrigation Water
       Management Specialist located in the NRD to assist irrigators with
       this resource concern.
     * Rangeland Health
       Decline in range condition and loss of plant diversity are the
       primary rangeland health concerns in the NRD. NRCS works closely
       with individuals to address range management concerns. Two range
       management specialists are located in the NRD to assist ranchers.
       At the request of the local landowners, these specialists will
       conduct a range inventory, assist with the development of a range
       management plan, provide design assistance for water systems,
       pipelines, brush management and cross fencing, and develop a
       monitoring program to assess the effectiveness of the Management
       plan. Cost-share funds are available through EQIP and NSWCP to
       apply conservation practices on rangeland.
     * Riparian Area Improvement
       Few perennial streams occur in the Upper Republican NRD. NRCS is
       working close with the NRD, Nebraska Game and Parks Commission, and
       the Farm Service Agency to promote the use of the Conservation
       Reserve Program and the Nebraska Buffer Strip Program to encourage
       the establishment of riparian buffers and filter strips along
       perennial intermittent streams.
     * Wetlands
       Over 10,000 acres of playa wetlands occur in the Upper Republican
       NRD. These wetlands are seasonally ponded and the majority occur in
       cropland fields. NRCS is working closely with the NRD, Nebraska
       Game and Parks Commission, and the Farm Service Agency to promote
       the use of the Conservation Reserve Program to restore wetlands
       through establishment of the natural plant community around
       wetlands to reduce sedimentation of the wetlands.
     * Soil Erosion on Cropland
       NRCS works closely with individual farmers to install soil
       conservation measures throughout the NRD. On sandy soils, wind
       erosion is reduced through installation of field windbreaks,
       residue management systems, stripcropping, and other management
       options. On silty soils, ephemeral and classic gully erosion can be
       controlled through the installation of terraces, waterways,
       diversions, and underground outlets. NRCS is able to address
       conservation needs on cropland with the two Soil Conservationists,
       a Soil Conservation Technician, and a Civil Engineering Technician.
     * Wildlife Habitat
       NRCS works closely with the NRD, Nebraska Game and Parks
       Commission, and Extension Foresters to assist landowners in
       development of wildlife habitat areas and to utilize the
       Conservation Reserve Program to seed center pivot corners to
       grassland, shrubs, and trees. In addition to CRP, State and Federal
       Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP), WRP, and private
       wildlife organization programs are available to develop wildlife
       habitat.

   Primary programs and services NRCS works with and provides technical
   assistance to landowners and landusers so that the landowners/users can
   develop and implement conservation plans which address the natural
   resource concerns and needs of the land.
   NRCS assists landowners and landusers utilize a number of programs
   which provide cost-share assistance. These programs include:
     * EQIP -- Environmental Quality Incentives Program
     * CRP -- Conservation Reserve Program
     * WHIP -- Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program
     * SIP -- Stewardship Incentive Program
     * NSWCP -- Nebraska Soil and Water Conservation Program

   NRCS works closely with area schools to provide hands-on environmental
   education experiences. Outdoor classrooms have been established with
   the Venango, Grant, and Elsie Elementary Schools. NRCS staff members
   are involved in a number of presentations for SCORE (Science Camps
   Offer Rewarding Experiences) Camp. NRCS staff also volunteer as
   educators and counselors for the Nebraska Range Youth Camp which is
   sponsored by the Nebraska Section, Society for Range Management.
   Special Projects
     * Livestock Well-Being Project
       NRCS is working with five local ranchers in cooperation with the
       Grazingland Animal Nutrition Lab at Texas A&M University on this
       project. Dietary crude protein (%CP) and digestible organic matter
       (%DOM) are estimated through the analysis of fecal samples wit near
       infra-red reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS), a method pioneered by
       Dr. Jerry Stuth, director of the lab. Samples of warm season
       grasses in sand and hardland pastures, irrigated grasses, native
       subirrigated meadows, and cornstalks are being analyzed to provide
       accurate information about the forage quality throughout the year
       in terms of nutrition for the grazing animal. Results from the NIRS
       can be entered into a computer program called Nutrition Balance
       Analyzer (NUTBAL), which produces a nutritional balance report for
       protein and net energy which is specific to the kind, class, and
       breed of animal grazing each specific pasture.
     * Republican Valley Limited Irrigation Demonstration Project
       This project is a cooperative effort of the West Central Research
       and Extension Center, NRCS, Upper Republican NRD, and local
       producers. The purpose of the project is to implement a
       demonstration program to educate producers about irrigation and
       nitrogen management strategies to reduce nitrate loading in the
       Republican River Basin. Three of the five sites are located in the
       Upper Republican NRD. Four water treatments and four fertilizer
       treatments are utilized at each site. Field days are held in the
       fall to highlight the results to date of this project. 1999 will be
       the fourth year of the project.

       [blue_bar.gif]
       Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
       [blue_bar.gif]
       United States Department of Agriculture
       Natural Resources Conservation Service
       Nebraska State Office
       100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
       Lincoln, NE 68508
       Webmaster
