http://www.nimh.nih.gov/research/index.cfm

   Skip to Text

   NIMH

   For Researchers
   [goldbox.gif]

   [goldbox.gif]


   [goldbox.gif]

   Welcome
   News & Events
   Clinical Trials
   Funding
      Opportunities
   For the Public
   For Practitioners
   For Researchers
   Intramural Research
   Publications
      Order Form
   Para Ordenar
      Publicaciones
   CRISP
   PubMed
   Medline Plus

   MH Cornerstone
   Health Information
   Healthfinder
   Search
   Home

Looking for a grant? Want to find a job at NIMH? Searching for the latest
NIMH research reports or conference summaries? Find them here.

   This section offers information on RFAs, RFPs, Program Announcements,
   training opportunities, and job listings. Also included are special web
   pages on the NIMH Child and Adolescent Research Consortium and the NIMH
   Suicide Research Consortium. You will also find special reports and
   other publications.

   Funding Opportunities

   Research Training

   Neuroscience Research Funding Contacts in the Federal Government (*pdf
   format) (16 pages, 95 KB)

   Privacy Protection for Research Subjects: Certificates of
   Confidentiality

   Research Involving Individuals with Questionable Capacity to Consent:
   Points to Consider (Interim)

   NIMH Policy on Data and Safety Monitoring in Clinical Trials

   NIH Bioethics Resources on the Web

   Issues to Consider in Intervention Research with Persons at High Risk
   for Suicidality

   Employment Opportunities
   Information on job opportunities, student programs, hiring process,
   employment policy, and application forms can be found here.

   Schizophrenia Bulletin
   Order your subscription from the U.S. Government Printing Office.

   News for Researchers
   Here you can find new items about research opportunities or scientific
   findings.

   Research Services
   Find programs and services for the researcher.

   Research Consortiums
   NIMH Consortia coordinate research, encourage knowledge transfer and
   clinical application of findings and provide research policy
   leadership.

   Literature Alert
   Recent NIMH-supported research articles of interest.

   Research Reports
   Enter here to find publications of professional interest that address
   research on treatment and services, parity, and other priority areas,
   such as neuroscience and prevention research.

   Conference and Workshop Summaries
   Find abstracts, proceedings, and summaries of selected NIMH sponsored
   meetings.

   NIMH Research Web areas
   Web areas focusing on Institute research programs such as AIDS;
   genetics research; mental health services research, neuroinformatics;
   Intramural Research Programs and Technology transfer can be accessed
   here.

   Statistics
   You can find information on the prevalence of mental disorders here.

   *PDF (Portable Document Format) files can be read using Adobe's (TM)
   Acrobat(TM) Reader. This program, which you must install once on your
   computer, allows you to view, navigate and print PDF documents as they
   were published. You will need to download and install a copy of the
   Acrobat Reader in order to use this files. In addition, you can view
   PDF files through your browser by installing the Web browser plug-ins.
   You must install the Acrobat Reader first.

   Back to Top

   Updated: January 15, 2002

   For information about NIMH and its programs, please email, write or
   phone us.

   NIMH Public Inquiries
   6001 Executive Boulevard, Rm. 8184, MSC 9663
   Bethesda, MD 20892-9663 U.S.A.
   Voice (301) 443-4513; Fax (301) 443-4279
   TTY (301) 443-8431
