http://lunar.arc.nasa.gov/history/index.htm

   The javascript on this page is used to preload the images for links and
   to swap the images used for links

   go to content
   layout image go to introduction
   Go to lunar history
   go to Lunar Mythology
   [timelin.gif]
   go to Further Reading
   layout image
   Layout image Go to home
   go to project go to results Go to datavis go to history Go to science
   Go to education Go to archives go to resources

                                INTRODUCTION

   Spacecraft have been studying the Moon for nearly half a century. The
   history of direct lunar exploration formally began in 1959, when probes
   from the Soviet's Luna spacecraft first flew by and then impacted the
   Moon's surface. Around the same time, NASA's Pioneer 4 passed within
   37,000 miles of the Moon. Lunar Prospector is the first NASA mission to
   the moon in 25 years. Here you can take a look at some of the ideas and
   events that have paved the way.

   Lunar History recounts the dramatic events of the last 40 years leading
   up to the launch of Lunar Prospector on January 6, 1998 (9:29 p.m.
   EST). It also includes some preliminary lunar findings and how they
   contribute to our understanding of the universe.

   Moon Mythology examines the pre-scientific understanding of the Moon.
   Many stories from around the world can be found here along with brief
   histories of the various Godesses (and Gods) that have been associated
   with the Moon over the ages.

   Lunar Timeline can be viewed in two formats. If you don't see anything
   when you try the Flash version, it probably means you do not have the
   Flash Plug-in installed on your system. We've provided another version
   so you can still check it out. Whichever version you chose you can get
   information on any mission that's ever studied the Moon. It even
   includes some missions that are still in the planning stages!

   Further Reading

                                       MENU
       Home | Project | Results | Datavis | History | Science | Education |
                               Archives | Resources

                                      SUBMENU
         Introduction | Lunar History | Lunar Mythology | Lunar Timeline |
                                  Further Reading


        Contact Information
   Last Updated: August 31, 2001
