http://www.dnfsb.gov/about/index.html

   Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board spacer
   spacer
   Board Members
   Organization Chart
   Enabling Legislation
   FAIR Act
   Customer Service Standard
   spacer
   Home | About DNFSB
   Who We Are

     For nearly half a century, the Department of Energy (DOE) and its
     predecessor agencies operated the nation's defense nuclear weapons
     complex without independent external oversight. In the late 1980's, it
     became increasingly clear to members of Congress that significant
     public health and safety issues had accumulated at many of the aging
     facilities in the weapons complex. As an outgrowth of these concerns,
     Congress created the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board in 1988 as
     an independent oversight organization within the Executive Branch
     charged with providing advice and recommendations to the Secretary of
     Energy "to ensure adequate protection of public health and safety" at
     DOE's defense nuclear facilities.
     Broadly speaking, the Board is responsible for independent oversight of
     all activities affecting nuclear safety within DOE's nuclear weapons
     complex. Prior to the end of the nuclear arms race, the nuclear weapons
     complex concentrated on the design, manufacture, test, and maintenance
     of the nation's nuclear arsenal. The complex is now engaged in cleanup
     of contaminated sites and facilities, disassembly of nuclear weapons to
     achieve arms control objectives, maintenance of the smaller stockpile,
     and storage and disposition of excess fissionable materials.
     All of these hazardous activities must be carried out in strict
     observance of health and safety requirements. To ensure that these
     safety requirements are adequate, the Board's enabling statute, 42
     U.S.C. ß 2286 et seq., requires the Board to review and evaluate the
     content and implementation of DOE health and safety standards
     applicable to the design, construction, operation, and decommissioning
     of defense nuclear facilities. The Board must then recommend to the
     Secretary of Energy any specific measures, such as changes in the
     content and implementation of those standards, that the Board believes
     should be adopted to ensure that the public health and safety are
     adequately protected. The Board also is required to review the design
     of new defense nuclear facilities before construction begins, as well
     as modifications to older facilities, and to recommend changes
     necessary to protect health and safety. Review and advisory
     responsibilities of the Board continue throughout the full life cycle
     of facilities, including shutdown and decommissioning phases.
     Congress gave the Board a variety of powers to achieve its mission.
     Primary among these is the power to issue a recommendation to the
     Secretary of Energy. Although the Secretary is permitted to reject
     Board recommendations, in practice the Secretary has not chosen to do
     so over the 11 years of Board operations. In addition to
     recommendations, the Board may conduct investigations, issue subpoenas,
     hold public hearings, gather information, conduct studies, and
     establish reporting requirements for DOE. The Board is required by
     statute to report to Congress each year concerning its oversight
     activities, its recommendations to the Secretary of Energy, and
     improvements in safety achieved at defense nuclear facilities as a
     result of its activities.

   Return to Top
   Need Help?
   Can't find the document you are looking for?
   See Help/FAQs
   DNFSB Home | About DNFSB | Public Documents | Employment | Contact Us |
   Help/FAQs | Resources | Privacy | FirstGov | FOIA
   spacer
   spacer
   spacer
   spacer
