http://murray.senate.gov/~murray/releases/01/11/2001b30502.html

                              [pressheader.gif]

   Senator Murray Secures $55 Million for South Puget Sound Transportation
                                 Priorities
        Increased funding for South Puget Sound Projects will improve
     infrastructure, reduce commutes. Sen. Murray secures a record $190
    million for Washington State, nearly triple the $68 million received
                                  last year

   For Immediate Release: November 29, 2001

   (WASHINGTON, D.C.) U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Chair of the
   Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced $55
   million for South Puget Sound transportation projects in the fiscal
   year 2002 Transportation Appropriations Conference Report. The funding
   will address critical infrastructure needs throughout the region,
   including bridges, busses, and transit facilities.

   The Conference Report is the final step in the year-long appropriations
   process. The measure is expected to pass the House and Senate within
   days before going to the President to become law.

   "We know the Everett-Seattle-Tacoma Corridor has the second worst
   traffic in the nation," Senator Murray said. "This funding represents
   my continued commitment to working with state and local officials to
   address our traffic frustrations in the region. We have a lot of work
   to do in the region and chairing the Transportation subcommittee puts
   me in a great position to make sure the federal government is a full
   partner."

   Tukwila Transit Oriented Development at Longacres ($1.5 million)

   This funding will help redevelop a section of Tukwila's urban center
   adjacent to a new Sounder Commuter Rail Station that opened in March,
   2001. The project will help with transportation congestion, improve air
   quality, and provide additional affordable housing in the area.

   Pierce Transit ($2 million)

   This grant will help replace 19 high-mileage diesel buses with natural
   gas vehicles.

   FAST Corridor ($20 million)

   A series of grade-crossings and port-access projects in the corridor
   between Everett and Tacoma are needed to expedite passenger and freight
   mobility in the Puget Sound Region. This funding will enable
   constructions of those grade crossings. Over the last four years,
   Senator Murray has secured more than $100 million for FAST corridor.

   City of Kent/Second Avenue Extension project ($900,000)

   This grant will help redevelop 22.5 acres of prime property in the
   city's urban center adjacent to a new Sound Transit commuter rail
   station that opened in Feb. 2001. The mixed-use development will
   incorporate retail, housing, public spaces, a hotel and entertainment
   facilities.

   Regional Express Transit Hubs ($9.5 million)

   This funding will enable state and local officials to develop transit
   hubs throughout the region including park and ride facilities, transit
   centers, HOC direct access ramps, and access for buses and carpools.
   The designated sites are: Bellevue, Lynnwood, Kirkland, Federal Way,
   and Lakewood.

   Renton/Port Quendall I-405 Project ($5 million)

   To make road improvements to I-405, which will result in the
   development of the Port Quendall Business Project.

   Sounder Commuter Rail ($20 million)

   This funding will help develop Sounder Commuter Rail transit facilities
   between Tacoma and Lakewood to the south.

   Port of Tacoma Trucker Congestion Notification System ($200,000)

   This funding will help expand an ongoing effort to provide truck
   drivers with advanced notice about congestion at the Port of Tacoma.

   South Park Bridge ($1 million)

   This funding will assist King County, the cities of Seattle and Tukwila
   in building a new bridge across the Dumamish River.

   Noise Mitigation at SeaTac Airport

   The bill directs the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to
   expeditiously commit funds and undertake noise mitigation activities to
   implement the recent agreement between the FAA, the Port of Seattle,
   the Highline School District and the State of Washington.

                                     ###
