http://aeldata.phy.nist.gov/MajResFac/facilities.html

   Major Research Facilities


     * Controlled Background Radiometric Facility - provides the
       calibration of large-area, vacuum-operational, infrared blackbody
       sources for space-based civilian, defense, and industrial
       applications.
     * Electron Beam Ion Trap (EBIT) - a facility for study of the
       properties and applications of highly charged ions.
     * Electron Paramagnetic Resonance Facility - provides a
       non-destructive probe for measuring the structure and concentration
       of absorbed dose by ionizing radiation.
     * EUV Optics Fabrication and Characterization Facility - measures the
       reflectance or transmittance of extreme ultraviolet (EUV)
       multilayer optics such as mirrors, filters, and gratings as a
       function of wavelength, angle of incidence, and position of the
       optic.
     * High-Resolution UV and Optical Spectroscopy Facility - houses the
       most powerful spectrometers in the world for observation of
       emission and absorption spectra in the soft X-ray to near infrared
       regions.
     * Low-Background Infrared Radiation Facility - measures total radiant
       power from sources such as cryogenic blackbodies in a large vacuum
       chamber with radiant background noise levels less than a few
       nanowatts.
     * Magnetic Microstructure Measurement Facility - provides the
       capability for imaging surface magnetic microstructures with very
       high spatial resolution by a variety of methods.
     * Medical-Industrial Radiation Facility (MIRF) - houses an electron
       accelerator in a user facility for the medical and industrial
       radiation communities to address issues in radiation metrology,
       radiation effects, and the uses of electron and high-energy photon
       beams.
     * Nanostructure Fabrication and Measurement Facility - provides for
       the fabrication (using Atom Lithography) and measurement (using
       Tunneling Microscopy) of structures on the nanometer length scale.
     * Neutron Interferometer Facility (NIOF) - one of the world's premier
       user facilities for neutron interferometry and related neutron
       optical measurements.
     * Radiopharmaceutical Standardization Laboratory - provides
       calibration services for the gamma-ray-emitting radionuclides used
       for diagnostic and therapeutic nuclear medicine.
     * Synchrotron Ultraviolet Radiation Facility (SURF III) - a 405 MeV
       electron storage ring producing radiation from the soft X-ray
       region to the infrared is the source for a user facility for
       studies in radiometry; atomic, molecular, biomolecular, and
       solid-state physics; surface and materials science; electro-optics;
       and surface chemistry and radiation effects on matter.

        Some of the above material was originally prepared for the Physics
                     Laboratory section in the Guide to NIST.
      NIST: National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Physics
    Laboratory Home Pages designed and maintained by the Office of ECSED.
                Inquiries or comments: www@physics.nist.gov.
             Online: June 1994   -   Last update: February 2001
