http://goldmine.cde.ca.gov/webstandards/

      California Dept of Education      A-Z Index   |   Search   |   Help
     Accountability | Curriculum | Professional Development | Students |
   Family-Community | Programs | Resources

   CDE Valid: Logo for Web Standards at the California Department of
   Education Web Standards
   California Department of Education
   Resources > CDE Web Standards

     Web pages at the California Department of Education (CDE) displaying
     the CDE Valid logo have met CDE standards for accessibility and
     hypertext markup language (HTML).
     Accessibility
     CDE standards for accessibility are based on the Web Accessibility
     Initiative developed by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). This helps
     ensure that Web services can be effectively used by people regardless
     of visual, hearing, physical, or cognitive impairments as well as
     variations in the technology they are using. To establish conformity
     with the standards, CDE Web pages are validated with Bobby, developed
     by the Center for Applied Special Technology, and other appropriate
     tools.
     HTML
     CDE staff create Web pages with HTML that conforms to the standards
     established by the W3C. Valid HTML improves the accessibility and
     usability of Web pages by increasing the likelihood that the pages'
     appearance will be similar regardless of the hardware and software used
     to view them. The W3C Validation Service is used to validate the HTML.
     Implementation
     The CDE will begin implementation of these standards in the near
     future. All new pages posted after implementation will have met the
     standards. Pages posted earlier on the Web will be updated as time
     permits. If you need assistance with a page not updated to standards,
     please contact the Web Services Office.

           This page is maintained by the CDE Web Services Office.
           Updated December 11, 2001
           Copyright © California Department of Education.
           You are at: http://www.cde.ca.gov/webstandards/

                        Contact CDE | Help | CDE Home

   CDE Valid: Logo for Web Standards at the California Department of
   Education                                                        _ Site Meter
