http://goldmine.cde.ca.gov/privacy/privacy.htm

      Welcome to the
         California Dept. of Education       A-Z Index  | Search  |   Help

                              Privacy Policy

    Government Code
    11015.5. (a) On or after July 1, 2001, unless otherwise authorized
    by the Department of Information Technology pursuant to Executive
    Order D-3-99, every state agency, including the California State
    University, that utilizes any method, device, identifier, or other
    data base application on the Internet to electronically collect
    personal information, as defined in subdivision (d), regarding any
    user shall prominently display the following at least one
    anticipated initial point of communication with a potential user, to
    be determined by each agency, and in instances when the specified
    information would be collected:
        (1) Notice to the user of the usage or existence of the
    information gathering method, device, identifier, or other data base
    application.
        (2) Notice to the user of the type of personal information that
    is being collected and the purpose for which the collected
    information will be used.
        (3) Notice to the user of the length of time that the
    information gathering device, identifier, or other data base
    application will exist in the user's hard drive, if applicable.
        (4) Notice to the user that he or she has the option of having
    his or her personal information discarded without reuse or
    distribution, provided that the appropriate agency official or
    employee is contacted after notice is given to the user.
        (5) Notice to the user that any information acquired by the
    state agency, including the California State University, is subject
    to the limitations set forth in the Information Practices Act of
    1977 (Title 1.8 (commencing with Section 1798) of Part 4 of Division
    3 of the Civil Code).
        (6) Notice to the user that state agencies shall not distribute
    or sell any electronically collected personal information, as
    defined in subdivision (d), about users to any third party without
    the permission of the user.
        (7) Notice to the user that electronically collected personal
    information, as defined in subdivision (d), is exempt from requests
    made pursuant to the California Public Records Act (Chapter 3.5
    (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1).
        (8) The title, business address, telephone number, and
    electronic mail address, if applicable, of the agency official who
    is responsible for records requests, as specified by subdivision (b)
    of Section 1798.17 of the Civil Code, or the agency employee
    designated pursuant to Section 1798.22 of that code, as determined
    by the agency, who is responsible for ensuring that the agency
    complies with requests made pursuant to this section.
        (b) A state agency shall not distribute or sell any
    electronically collected personal information about users to any
    third party without prior written permission from the user, except
    as required to investigate possible violations of Section 502 of the
    Penal Code or as authorized under the Information Practices Act of
    1977 (Title 1.8 (commencing with Section 1798) of Part 4 of Division
    3 of the Civil Code). Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed
    to prohibit a state agency from distributing electronically
    collected personal information to another state agency or to a
    public law enforcement organization in any case where the security
    of a network operated by a state agency and exposed directly to the
    Internet has been, or is suspected of having been, breached.
        (c) A state agency shall discard without reuse or distribution
    any electronically collected personal information, as defined in
    subdivision (d), upon request by the user.
        (d) For purposes of this section:
        (1) "Electronically collected personal information" means any
    information that is maintained by an agency that identifies or
    describes an individual user, including, but not limited to, his or
    her name, social security number, physical description, home
    address, home telephone number, education, financial matters,
    medical or employment history, password, electronic mail address,
    and information that reveals any network location or identity, but
    excludes any information manually submitted to a state agency by a
    user, whether electronically or in written form, and information on
    or relating to individuals who are users serving in a business
    capacity, including, but not limited to, business owners, officers,
    or principals of that business.
        (2) "User" means an individual who communicates with a state
    agency or with an agency employee or official electronically.
        (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit an
    agency to act in a manner inconsistent with the standards and
    limitations adopted pursuant to the California Public Records Act
    (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title
    1) or the Information Practices Act of 1977 (Title 1.8 (commencing
    with Section 1798) of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code).

                             Back to Top of Page

          Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Web Services Office
                               Valid HTML 4.0!
