http://www-library.ncifcrf.gov/libclass.htm

   [USEMAP:newt.gif]

                                                 [libclass.gif]

                            line.jpg (1660 bytes)

   The Scientific Library offers a variety of FREE hands-on classes in our
   Microcomputer Lab.   The list below provides links to descriptions and
   dates for upcoming classes.  Due to seating restrictions,
   pre-registration is required.  Registration is available by e-mailing
   the Instructional Resources Librarian, or by calling x5840.

   In addition, the Library offers customized classes, tailored to meet
   the needs of individuals or groups.   These classes can be held in the
   Library's Microcomputer Lab, or in individual offices.  Please e-mail
   any requests to the above address, or call x5840.

                                   CLASSES
               (Click on class title to view full description)

   Chemical Resources
   Database Searching 101
   Electronic Databases Overview [libcla1.gif]
   Employee Health:
          Center for Health Information
   EndNote:
          Introduction to EndNote
          Intermediate EndNote
   NCBI Personal Consultations [libcla2.gif]
   Online Journals & Full-Text Resources
   Orientation
   PubMed:
          Introduction to PubMed
          Advanced PubMed [libcla3.gif]
   Reference Manager:
          Introduction to Reference Manager
          Intermediate Reference Manager
   Staying Current with the Literature
   Web of Science:
          Introduction to Web of Science/PORPOISE
   World Wide Web:
          Introduction to the World Wide Web
          World Wide Web Scientific Resources

    CHEMICAL RESOURCES
    This class offers an overview of various chemical resources available
    at the Scientific Library.  Some of the resources discussed include
    Chemical Abstracts on CD-ROM, Web of Science, TOXLINE, ChemID, TOXNET
    ON THE WEB, and the BEILSTEIN database.

                             Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   DATABASE SEARCHING 101
   This class is designed for the beginning bibliographic database
   searcher.  Searching a bibliographic database will help searchers to
   locate journal articles about a particular subject, or written by a
   specific author.  In this class, students learn proper terminology,
   accurate database selection, and correct search strategies.  PubMed is
   the primary database used, but other databases are discussed.  This is
   a BASIC searching class, designed for those new to database searching.

                            Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   ELECTRONIC DATABASES OVERVIEW
   Previously entitled "Electronic Databases Overview Part 1" and "Part
   2," this newly re-organized class provides a fast-paced look at all the
   electronic databases to which the Scientific Library subscribes.
   Students learn what databases are available, when to use them, and
   briefly how to use them. (More in-depth instruction for some databases
   is available in other classes.) Some of the databases discussed in this
   class include: PubMed; Web of Science; Journal Citation Reports;
   Chemical Abstracts: NLM Gateway; Current Protocols Series; Cytokine
   Reference; Encyclopedia of Virology.
   NOTE: This class will run for 3 hours.

                            Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   CENTER FOR HEALTH INFORMATION
   This class explains and teaches the computer-based resources available
   to NCI-Frederick employees in the Center for Health Information,
   located in the Scientific Library.  Students learn how to locate
   consumer health information in three separate areas.  The Library's
   Online Catalog, available through the World Wide Web, provides access
   to on-site materials; Infotrac Searchbank's Health Reference Center, a
   database from Information Access Company, provides references to
   articles on nearly all health-related topics.  It also includes some
   full-text articles from medical textbooks, pamphlets, and journal
   articles.  Employee Health WWW Resources, a World Wide Web page
   available through the Library's Home Page, provides links to patient
   and health care provider information found on the Web.
            Tuesday, November 13, 2001    2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

    INTRODUCTION TO ENDNOTE
    This class offers a basic introduction to EndNote.   EndNote is a
    bibliographic management software program which allows users to
    organize and manipulate citations, and prepare bibliographies for
    publications.  This class covers entering, sorting, and manipulating
    citations in a library, and generating bibliographies through word
    processing programs.
    NOTE: This class does NOT teach the importing of citations from
    computerized database searches.

                             Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   INTERMEDIATE ENDNOTE
   This class offers additional training in EndNote. In this class
   students learn how to import citations saved from computerized database
   searches, and how to use connection files to search web-based databases
   directly from EndNote. Manipulation of styles and filters is also
   discussed.
   NOTE: Participants should have a basic knowledge of EndNote.

            Tuesday, November 20, 2001    10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   NCBI PERSONAL CONSULTATIONS

   A trainer for the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI)
   visits the NCI-Frederick campus periodically to offer personal
   consultations to interested scientisits. A one-hour personal
   consultation provides each student with an opportunity for a one-on-one
   discussion about an NCBI-related topic of his/her choice. All
   consultations are held in the Scientific Library's Microcomputer Lab,
   to provide hands-on practice and access to the NCBI databases, such as
   GenBank and BLAST, via the World Wide Web.
   NOTE: You must pre-register for a personal NCBI consultation. Contact
   the Instructional Resources Librarian for more information.

    Friday, December 7, 2001        Every hour from 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   ONLINE JOURNALS & FULL-TEXT RESOURCES

   This class is designed to assist NCI-Frederick employees in accessing
   and using the Library's full-text online journal collection. Topics
   covered include print format types, remote access, linking from PubMed,
   and access via services such as ScienceDirect, IDEAL, MDConsult, and
   other full-text resources. NOTE: Participants should  have some
   familiarity with Web searching.

            Tuesday, November 27, 2001    10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   ORIENTATION
   New employees are encouraged to attend an Orientation to learn about
   the Scientific Library and all the services it offers. During
   Orientation, students see a demonstration of  the Library's Online
   Catalog, practice navigating the Library's Web page, learn about
   Library services, and tour the Library.  Students should bring
   NCI-Frederick identification cards to the Orientation, so that barcodes
   can be attached.  Barcodes allow users to check out library materials,
   and to electronically request document delivery.

          Second Wednesday of every month    2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   INTRODUCTION TO PUBMED

   This class offers a basic overview of PubMed.  PubMed is a World Wide
   Web retrieval service developed by the National Center for
   Biotechnology Information (NCBI).  PubMed provides access to MEDLINE,
   with links to the full-text versions of selected articles.  In
   addition, PubMed provides access and links to the integrated molecular
   biology databases maintained by NCBI.  Access to PubMed is through the
   Internet, using a World Wide Web browser.

                            Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   ADVANCED PUBMED
   This training session provides a more adanced study of PubMed. Students
   can improve their PubMed searching skills by learning about the MeSH,
   Medical Subject Headings; the Cubby service; LinkOut; Loansome Doc.
   Personalized instruction is also included, based on individual student
   needs.
   NOTE: This class is offered as a personal consultation only.

         Contact the Instructional Resources Librarian to schedule a
                                consultation.

                                Back to List

   INTRODUCTION TO REFERENCE MANAGER

   This class offers a basic introduction to Reference Manager. Reference
   Manager is a bibliographic management software program which allows
   users to organize and manipulate citations, and prepare bibliographies
   for publications. This class covers entering, sorting, and manipulating
   citations in a database, and generating bibliographies through word
   processing programs. This class also teaches studetns how to import
   citations from PubMed.

                            Date to be announced

                                Back to List

   INTERMEDIATE REFERENCE MANAGER
   This class offers additional training in Reference Manager. In this
   class students learn how to customize the display screens, manage term
   lists, import citations directly from PubMed and Web of Science; and
   how to prevent, identify, and delete duplicate citations when importing
   from multiple databases.    NOTE: Participants should have a basic
   knowledge of Reference Manager.

              Tuesday, December 4, 2001   2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   STAYING CURRENT WITH THE LITERATURE

   This class is designed to teach students how to retrieve the most
   recent citations from a variety of databases, allowing them to stay
   up-to-date on new research in any subject area.   Some of the databases
   discussed include the Library's CD-ROM databases: Current Contents,
   Science Citation Index, and Chemical Abstracts, as well as World Wide
   Web-accessible databases such as PubMed, Web of Science, and the NIH
   Ovid Databases.   NOTE: This class does NOT cover basic searching
   instructions.  Participants should  be knowledgeable in database
   searching.

            Tuesday, December 18, 2001   10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

                                Back to List

   INTRODUCTION TO WEB OF SCIENCE/PORPOISE
   This class offers training both in the Web of Science, which includes
   web versions of the bibliographic databases Science Citation Index
   Expanded and Social Science Citation Index, and in PORPOISE, which is a
   current awareness service. Web of Science provides citations to journal
   articles, and offers cited reference searching, which allows users to
   track the citation history of journal articles. PORPOISE allows users
   to create and save search profiles, to keep current with relevant
   publications, or to provide tables of contents for recent journal
   issues. PORPOISE automatically runs those search profiles against
   weekly updates of Web of Science, and sends the results to users'
   e-mail accounts.

                            Date to be announced

                                Back to List

    INTRODUCTION TO THE WORLD WIDE WEB

    This class is designed for the beginning Web searcher.  Students are
    introduced to the World Wide Web, some of its history, and how it
    works.  They learn how to navigate the Web using browsers, and how to
    locate information using search engines.   Students also learn how to
    correctly purchase items from the Web, using the IMPAC credit card.
    This is a BASIC searching class, designed for those new to Web
    searching.   No Web experience is necessary.

                             Date to be announced

                                Back to List

    WORLD WIDE WEB SCIENTIFIC RESOURCES

    This class is designed to share relevant medical and scientific Web
    sites with researchers.   General search engines, medical search
    engines, and specific Web sites are covered.  Also, tips on how to
    determine the quality of Web sites are offered.  Information and
    instruction on how to access full-text journal articles through the
    World Wide Web, using the Library's Home Page, are also provided.
    NOTE: Participants should  have some familiarity with Web searching.

             Tuesday, December 11, 2001   10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

                                 [line.jpg]

                                  [top.gif]

       NCI-Frederick. Questions or comments: library@mail.ncifcrf.gov
                                Last updated:
