http://www.oc.ca.gov/cob/claim%20for%20refund.pdf

   Clerk of the Board of Supervisors COB Ref No. CLAIM FOR REFUND OF TAXES
   AND/OR PENALTIES PAID (Revenue & Taxation Code Sec 5096, et seq)
   Darlene J. Bloom www.oc.ca.gov/cob/ Clerk of the Board (714) 834-2206
   10 Civic Center Plaza, Suite 465 Santa Ana, CA 92701 Please type or
   print clearly and sign in Blue Ink Name and Mailing Address of claimant
   Claimant: Last First Middle Agent Name: (If applicable) Address:
   Mailing Address City/ST/Zip Phone No.:( ) ( ) Affected Property: Orange
   County Assessorís Parcel Number(s) AND/OR Tax Bill Assessment Number(s)
   Refund for Overpayment of Taxes Paid: I disagree with the decision of
   the Assessment Appeals Board. Application No(s). I overpaid my taxes on
   the above referenced property. Partial Refund Full Refund For Tax Year
   to Taxes were incorrectly collected for the following reasons: Backup
   documentation is provided Estimated Amount of Claim: $ Refund of
   Penalties for Late Payment of Taxes Paid: Penalty was applied in error
   on the above referenced property/bill. Penalty was incorrectly
   collected for the following reason: Backup Documentation is provided
   Amount of Claim: $ I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing
   is true and correct. Executed at: , California, this day of , 20___
   INSTRUCTIONS If you feel you are entitled to a refund of taxes and/or
   penalties paid under Revenue and Taxation Code Section 5096, et seq,
   you are required to complete this form and file it with the Clerk of
   the Board of Supervisors. You MUST pay your taxes or penalty prior to
   filing this claim. Once you have completed this form, mail or
   personally deliver it and all relevant evidence to: Clerk of the Board
   of Supervisors ATTN: Claims Division Hall of Administration, Room 465
   Santa Ana, CA 92701 Section 1 Type or print the name of the claimant,
   the agent or attorney (if applicable) and the mailing address you want
   all correspondence mailed. Provide telephone numbers where you can be
   easily reached if there is a question about your claim. Be sure to
   properly identify the affected property. Provide the Assessorís Parcel
   Number(s) which is available on all correspondence from the Assessor
   and/or the Tax Bill Assessment Number(s). Section 2  Refund of Property
   Taxes Only If you are requesting a refund of Property Taxes paid, you
   must complete this section. Check the box(es) that apply and fill in
   the appropriate application numbers or tax years that apply. Be sure to
   adequately identify your reason(s) for filing this claim and include
   all evidence to support your claim. Once you have completed this
   section sign the claim form under penalty of perjury and return the
   completed form and accompanying documentation to the Clerk of the Board
   at the address shown above. Section 3  Refund of Penalty(ies) for Late
   Payment of Taxes Only If you are requesting a refund of Penalties paid,
   you must complete this section. Check the box(es) that apply. Be sure
   to adequately identify your reason(s) for filing this claim and include
   all evidence. Once you have completed this section sign the claim form
   under penalty of perjury and return the completed form and accompanying
   documentation to the Clerk of the Board at the address shown above.
   Signature All claims must be signed by the claimant or claimantís
   agent. If signed by the Claimantís agent, be sure to print your name
   clearly. Signatures should be in blue ink to easily identify original
   claims. If you have any questions, contact the Clerk of the Board at
   (714) 834-2206.
