http://www-rfi.fnal.gov/Acnet/ACNet-LabVIEW.html



   Welcome to RFI Web Server
   .
   Introduction
   [bar.gif]

   An interface has been written to enable the use of a LabVIEW system in
   the Fermilab Accelerator Control Network. The interface is twofold:

   1. Front-end capabilities: Others, e.g. consoles, can request or set
   data from the LabVIEW program according to the RETDAT,SETDAT, and
   FTPMAN protocols.
   2. Console capabilities: The LabVIEW program can request or set remote
   Acnet devices.

   The software can be downloaded from this page (password required)
   Front-end Interface
   [bar.gif]
   The interface is completely written in LabVIEW and therefore useable
   across all of the LabVIEW supported platforms. Documentation on the
   interface can be found here in HTML or PDF format. See the
   Macintosh-only older version HTML document for more details on the
   older version that support Ethernet and Tokenring
   Console Interface
   [bar.gif]
   The console interface is written in LabVIEW itself and is therefore
   portable to any other LabVIEW platform. This interface uses the TCPORT
   server on one of the VAXes communicating using TCP/IP over ethernet.
   Through special LabVIEW VIs the program can ask for data from any other
   Acnet device in the control system and set any Acnet device given this
   device is on the permission list on the VAX. A small LabVIEW program is
   available that emulates a console parameter page. As compensation for
   the lacking of Fast Time Plot and Snapshot support, it is able to plot
   and index array devices once or at intervals. You can use this to check
   the operation of your ACNet/LabVIEW system. See the TCPORT manual
   (local only) for more details. A beta version of TCPORT supports binary
   mode transfers, see TCPORT2 (local only). The server for this version
   only runs on request.
   [bar.gif]
   For any comments send mail to Wim Blokland

                                                  Page modified 07/30/2001


                                                  Security, Privacy, Legal
