http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/green_govt.html

   Privacy & Legal Notice

   Newsline, April 20, page 5

EPA names Lab a "champion of green government"

   By Don Johnston - Newsline staff writer

   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has recognized the Laboratory
   as a "champion of green government." Recycling materials from
   decontamination and demolition projects has earned the EPA's Greening
   the Government Award - recognition and appreciation of individuals and
   groups that go "above and beyond the call of duty in working to improve
   the environment."

   At the heart of the effort is LLNL's Space Action Team created six
   years ago in the Chemistry and Materials Science Directorate to improve
   efficiency and reduce costs by helping to consolidate facilities and
   programs across the Lab. "There were several facilities that were
   identified as no longer cost-effective to maintain due to their age,
   changing missions or obsolescence," said Mo Bissani, deputy Space
   Action Team (SAT) team leader.

   The award citation from EPA reads: "The Space Action Team at LLNL has
   recycled approximately 90 percent of materials from decontaminated and
   demolition projects at the Lab. Soil asphalt, concrete, wood, steel and
   electro-mechanical infrastructure and equipment have been recycled
   during the demolition of 11 buildings and 22 trailers. Soil, asphalt
   and concrete are now being used at landfill sites for construction,
   road improvements and daily operational needs. LLNL has reduced
   landfill costs for those materials to zero. Pollution prevention is a
   guiding principle in all decontamination and demolition projects."

   The Space Action Team (SAT), headed by Program Leader Mitch Waterman,
   plans and executes facilities projects. The 32-member team's
   capabilities and expertise include hazardous waste management,
   Environment Safety and Health (ES&H) technicians and crafts teamed with
   other ES&H professionals.

   "I was honored to receive this award on behalf of SAT and each and
   every member of the team. This could not have been achieved without
   their effort," said Waterman. "SAT has always believed that economic
   decontamination and demolition is real and that pollution prevention is
   clearly a cost saving process. Safety has also been a top priority. In
   our six years of operation, we have not had a lost work-day or injury."

   "The SAT's primary purpose is to work in partnership with its
   customers," says Bissani. "We've become very efficient in what we've
   been able to recycle out of these decommissioning and demolition
   projects."

   As buildings age beyond their "extended life cycle," the Laboratory is
   dealing with the disposition of surplus facilities. This effort is
   hampered by a lack of historical data such as plan drawings, building
   modification and spill report documents. "This is a very elaborate
   process requiring a lot of testing, sampling and characterization,"
   says Bissani, noting that it is the SAT's task to manage the "end of
   life cycle" disposition process which consists of the five D's
   "deactivation, decontamination, decommissioning, disposition and
   demolition."

   Kent Wilson, LLNL Pollution Prevention coordinator, said the approach
   the SAT has developed demonstrates that "pollution prevention not only
   improves the environment and protects natural resources, but it also
   makes good business sense in decontamination and demolition."

   Wilson said the Lab's pollution prevention program in the Environmental
   Protection Department also received a certificate of appreciation for
   co-chairing the Federal Facilities Environmental Roundtable which is
   held twice a year at host facilities around the Bay Area.

   [go_up_btn.gif]
   Previous Page
   Modified: 24-Apr-01 04:18
   Disclaimer
