http://www.kepler.arc.nasa.gov/pdf_files/Factsheet.pdf

   The Importance of Planet Detection planet in the habitable zone of a
   solar-like star. To he Kepler Mission is specifically designed to
   obtain the required precision, the photometer must Tsurvey the extended
   solar neighborhood to be spaceborne; this also eliminates the day-night
   detect and characterize hundreds of terrestrial and seasonal cycle
   interruptions of ground-based and larger planets in or near the
   habitable observing. zone and provide fundamental progress and Expected
   Results large leaps in our understanding of planetary We expect to
   perform a census of planets with systems. The results will yield a
   broad under- periods from days to a few years and to detect: standing
   of planetary formation, the frequency of Transits of terrestrial
   planets near 1 AU formation, the structure of individual planetary *
   About 50 planets if most have radii about equal systems and the generic
   characteristics of stars to the Earth (R ~ 1.0 R ) with terrestrial
   planets. * About 185 planets if most have R ~ 1.3 R Kepler Mission
   Science Objectives * About 640 planets if most have R ~ 2.2 R The
   scientific goal of the Kepler Mission is to ex- Transits of thousands
   of terrestrial planets plore the structure and diversity of planetary
   sys- * If most have orbits much less than 1 AU tems. This is achieved
   by surveying a large sample Modulation of the reflected light of giant
   of dwarf (main-sequence) stars to: inner planets 1. Determine the
   frequency of terrestrial and larger * About 870 planets with periods 1
   week planets in or near the habitable zone of a wide Transits of giant
   planets variety of spectral types of stars * About 135 inner-orbit
   planets with albedos for 2. Determine the distributions of planet sizes
   and about 100 of these giants their orbital semi-major axes * Densities
   for 35 inner-orbit planets 3. Estimate the frequency and orbital
   distribution * About 30 outer-orbit planets. of planets in
   multiple-stellar systems The results likely consist of a mix of all of
   the 4. Determine the distributions of semi-major axis, above. From
   these results, we can explore the albedo, size, mass, and density of
   short-period structure and diversity of planetary systems. The giant
   planets results are also still significant even if no planets 5.
   Identify additional members of each photomet- are found, since the
   mission is designed to detect rically discovered planetary system using
   com- so many terrestrial planets. plementary techniques 6. Determine
   the properties of those stars that har- bor planetary systems. The
   Kepler Mission supports the objectives of the Origin's theme and
   directly contributes to the de- sign of the Terrestrial Planet Finder
   as recom- mended in the NRC 2001 decadal survey. Mission Overview
   Kepler measures repetitive stellar brightness changes on the order of
   100 parts per million last- ing for 2 to16 hours caused by transiting
   terrestrial planets. The planet's orbit is calculated from the period
   of the transits. The size of the planet is calculated from Expected
   number of planetary discoveries. The the transit depth. The curves show
   the expected results based on moni- proposed differential photometer
   toring 100,000 dwarf stars and a four-year mission continuously and
   simultaneously monitors the and if most stars have terrestrial planets.
   The mis- brightness of 100,000 dwarf stars for four years; sion is
   sensitive to a large number of planets even long enough to see four
   transits of a terrestrial smaller than Earth in short period orbits as
   a result of the larger number of observed transits. Flight Segment
   Characteristics The photometer and spacecraft are robust; use
   flight-proven and conservative designs; have no single-point failures
   and are thoroughly tested. All software will undergo an independent
   verifi- cation and validation. Photometer: 0.95-m aperture Primary
   mirror: 1.4 m dia., 85% lightweighted Detectors: 42 CCDs 2200 x 1024
   pixels Photometer noise level: <10ppm Total noise, mv=12 solar-like
   star (1 ): <20ppm Data rate: 3.6 (5.4) Gbits/day in yrs 2-4 (yr 1)
   Sample transits measured with a flight-type Mechanisms: Focus, HGA,
   ejected cover CCD for a 12th magnitude star. The technology Photometer
   and spacecraft budgets: demonstration of the end-to-end system showed
   Mass: 903 kg (includes resv) plus 34% margin that differential ensemble
   photometry can be Power: 613 W (includes resv) plus 32% margin used to
   reliably detect Earth-size transits (1 Mission Characteristics
   Earth=84ppm) in the presence of all confound- Launch vehicle: D2925-10L
   (Delta II) ing noise sources. Orbit: Earth-trailing heliocentric
   Pointing: Continuously stare at one star field Education and Public
   Outreach (E/PO) Search: 100,000 dwarf stars for transits of The E/PO
   program has formal, informal and public terrestrial or larger planets
   outreach components leveraging the resources, ca- Mission lifetime: 4
   years of flight pabilities and experiences of our E/PO partners.
   Telemetry: Ka-and X-band, DSN Products include curriculum materials,
   planetarium programs, exhibits, amateur astronomer support, Mission
   Team and StarDate and PBS-style programs. NASA Ames Principal
   Investigator: William Borucki Mission Schedule Deputy Principal
   Investigator: David Koch Phase B 2/02-10/03 Project Manager: Larry
   Webster Phase C/D 11/03-11/06 Industrial partner Ball Aerospace Launch
   10/06 Science team Co-I (blue) SWG (green) Phase E 11/06-11/11 Ball
   Aerospace Harold Reitsema Educational program 10/02-11/11 Carnegie
   Institution of Washington Alan Boss Harvard University Dimitar Sasselov
   High Altitude Observatory Timothy Brown Lowell Observatory Edward
   Dunham NASA Ames Jack Lissauer, David Morrison NASA/GSFC Yoji Kondo
   Planetary Sciences Institute Steve Howell SETI Inst. Edna DeVore, Jon
   Jenkins, Jill Tarter Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Andrea
   Dupree, John Geary, David Latham Space Telescope Science Inst. Ronald
   Gilliland University of California, Berkeley Gibor Basri, Alan Gould,
   Geoff Marcy University of Hawaii Tobias Owen University of Texas at
   Austin William Cochran University of Washington Donald Brownlee York
   University John Caldwell New Technology The mission is low risk,
   incorporating proven technologies, which require no additional devel-
   opment. Our plans include transferring CCD technology to historically
   black and minority colleges. Kepler Flight Segment 12/01 "Discoveries,
   both the pleasant and unexpected, come to those who are looking."
   Rudolph F. Norden
