http://www-pao.ksc.nasa.gov/kscpao/status/stsstat/current.htm

            John F. Kennedy Space Center - Shuttle Status Reports

     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines

      January 25, 2002


      2002 Year at a Glance

                                                        Status Reports
                                                December Status Reports


                                    Note

    This is an orbiter processing report and does not necessarily reflect
      the chronological order of upcoming Space Shuttle flights.  Visit
   http://www-pao.ksc.nasa.gov/kscpao/schedule/schedule.htm for the latest
                    schedule of future Shuttle missions.




                MISSION: STS-109 -- HST Servicing Mission 3B


   Vehicle Columbia/OV-102
   Target KSC Launch Date/Time Feb. 28, 2002
   Target KSC Landing Date/Time March 11, 2002
   Mission Duration 11 days
   Crew Altman, Carey, Grunsfeld, Currie, Newman, Linnehan, Massimino
   Orbital Insertion Altitude/ Inclination 308 nautical miles/28.5 degrees


   Shuttle Processing Note  (previous notes)
     The rollout of Shuttle Columbia from the Vehicle Assembly Building
   (VAB) high bay to Pad A has been rescheduled for Monday, Jan. 28, with
    first motion at 7 a.m.. Verification testing of the operation of the
   steering linkage in all four of the crawler-transporter truck drives is
    in progress. No impact is expected on the STS-109 launch date or the
                milestone processing events leading up to it.

   MISSION: STS-110 -- 13th ISS Flight (8A) - ITS S0 TRUSS, MOBILE
                             TRANSPORTER
   Vehicle Atlantis/OV-104
   Target KSC Launch Date/Time April 4, 2002
   Target KSC Landing Date/Time April 15, 2002
   Mission Duration 11 days
   Crew Bloomfield, Frick, Ross, Smith, Ochoa, Morin, Walheim
   Orbital Insertion Altitude/Inclination 122 nautical miles/51.6 degrees

   Shuttle Processing Note  (previous notes)
   Shuttle Atlantis is undergoing prelaunch preparations in the Orbiter
   Processing Facility (OPF). The payload premate test is complete and
   main propulsion leak checks are in work. Inspection of the condition of
   attach point No.5 continues after the left-hand Orbiter Maneuvering
   System (OMS) pod was removed last Wednesday.

              MISSION: STS-111 -- 14th ISS Flight (UF2) - MPLM
   Vehicle Endeavour/OV-105
   Target KSC Launch Date/Time May 2, 2002
   Target KSC Landing Date/Time May 13, 2002
   Crew Cockrell, Lockhart, Chang-Diaz, Perrin; (ISS-5 up) Korzun,
   Whitson, Treschev; (ISS-4 down) Onufrienko, Bursch, Walz
   Orbital Insertion Altitude/Inclination 122 nautical miles/51.6 degrees

   Shuttle Processing Note  (previous notes)
   Auxiliary Propulsion System (APS) leak and functional checks are being
   conducted on Shuttle Endeavour in the OPF. The pitch actuator for Main
   Engine No. 1 is being removed to repair a faulty connector.

                 STRUCTURAL INSPECTION & MODIFICATION PERIOD
   Vehicle Discovery/OV-103

   Shuttle Processing Note  (previous notes)
   Discovery is scheduled to be moved back to the OPF from temporary
   storage in the VAB high bay on Monday. No decision has been made by
   Shuttle managers on the content, schedule and location for the
   structural inspection and modification down period.

        The Kennedy Space Center (KSC) Newsroom offers an electronic
      subscription service for status reports, news releases and other
   notices issued from KSC. There are two possible ways to subscribe.  You
                     may send a blank e-mail message to
        ksc-news_release-subscribe@kscnews.ksc.nasa.gov or follow the
   instructions on the Web site at http://kscnews.ksc.nasa.gov. The system
                    will confirm the request via e-mail.


     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines

                              Page Last Revised

                         Page & Curator Information

                                 01/25/2002

     Curator: Kay Grinter (Kay.Grinter-1@ksc.nasa.gov) -- InDyne, Inc./
                 Web Development: JBOSC Web Development Team
    A Service of the NASA/KSC External Relations and Business Development
                                 Directorate
                          JoAnn H. Morgan, Director
