http://fire.pppl.gov/iter_n2_pr.pdf

   Joint Press Release Second Negotiation Meeting Held in Tokyo on the
   Joint Implementation of ITER Tokyo  January 23, 2002. Delegations from
   Canada, the European Union, Japan and the Russian Federation met in
   Tokyo this week to continue formal negotiations on the joint
   implementation of the ITER project. ITER is a major international
   collaborative scientific and technological project with the goal of
   taking the next major step in the development of fusion as an
   attractive energy source for our planet. This was the second
   negotiation meeting in a series that is expected to lead, by the end of
   2002, to an international agreement on the joint implementation of
   ITER, for submission to the Parties. Discussed in the meeting was a
   preliminary draft of ITER Joint Implementation Agreement, which will
   govern the construction, operation and decommissioning of ITER. Matters
   covered in the discussions also included the preparation of the basis
   for site-selection process, procurement allocation schemes, and
   transitional arrangements towards implementation. In June 2001, Canada
   presented an offer to host the ITER project. Canada reported that the
   first formal review of the ITER project by the Canadian Nuclear Safety
   Commission will occur in March as a part of the formal licensing
   process initiated for possible siting of ITER at Clarington, Ontario.
   Other site offers are under consideration by the European Union and
   Japan. The European Union reported that the French Minister for
   Research had requested the EU to define the conditions under which a
   European site could be proposed for ITER construction and asked that
   the French proposal to realize ITER in Cadarache be taken into account.
   A study to analyze the possibility of proposing Spain as a possible
   site is also being conducted. Japan reported on the discussions at the
   Council on Science and Technology Policy (CSTP). Minister for Science
   and Technology Policy and Non-Cabinet members of the CSTP reported on
   25 December 2001 that Japanese participation in the ITER Project is
   desirable and, moreover, hosting ITER is meaningful. The decision of
   the Japanese Government on the ITER Project will be taken following the
   final conclusion of the CSTP. Russia reported that ITER is considered
   as one of its highest priorities, according to the Federal program
   `ITER International Project'. The negotiators clarified the points of
   discussion on the Joint Implementation Agreement, Joint Assessment of
   Specific Site and other matters and further investigation will be
   developed before the next negotiation meeting, which is scheduled for
   19-20 March 2002 in Moscow. It was announced that an international
   symposium on ITER entitled "Burning Plasma Science and Technology on
   ITER" is to be held in Tokyo on 24 January 2002. ...2 -2- For further
   information, contact: Natural Resources Canada Jim Campbell (613)
   996-2663, jicampbe@nrcan.gc.ca Laura Ferguson, Iter Canada (416)
   203-9409, laura@itercanada.com European Commission Jean-Pierre Rager
   32-2-295-30-85, jean-pierre.rager@cec.eu.int Japan Ministry of
   Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Office of Fusion
   Energy Satoru Ohtake 81-3-5253-4111 ext. 7820, ohtake@mext.go.jp
   Russian Federation Ministry of the Russian Federation for Atomic Energy
   Yury Sokolov 7-095-239-24-55, sokolov@minatom.ru
