http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/EVI_LAI_FPAR/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News

     Nasa News Stories Archive

   RELEASE NO: 01-126

   December 20, 2001

   MODIS instrument on NASA’s Terra satellite improves global vegetation
   mapping, makes new observations possible

   Unique observations of Earth’s vegetation are coming down from the
   Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on NASA’s Terra
   satellite. Scientists from the University of Arizona and Boston
   University are using these observations to refine estimates of the
   distribution and variability of Earth’s vegetation as well as to
   produce some of the first-ever global maps of vital signs such as the
   leaf area of plants and trees and the amount of sunlight they absorb.

   Alfredo Huete and his colleagues at the University of Arizona are using
   the new observations to produce the most commonly used satellite-based
   indicator of vegetation density—the Normalized Difference Vegetation
   Index (NDVI)—as well as an enhanced version that makes use of new
   electromagnetic information collected daily by MODIS. These maps
   display Earth’s vegetation on a scale from 0 to nearly 1, with higher
   values indicating more dense vegetation. Most of the Sahara Desert
   earns a zero; rain forests hit the top of the scale. New global maps
   are produced daily and then are combined into a single map bi-weekly
   and monthly.

   Traditional satellite-based mapping of vegetation vigor and amount is
   based on the way vegetation interacts with red and infrared light.
   Occasionally, however, those two signals are not enough. MODIS measures
   light reflected from Earth at a variety of wavelengths, and the Arizona
   researchers incorporate the additional information into their Enhanced
   Vegetation Index (EVI).

   Says Huete, “We are currently conducting detailed monitoring of both
   rainforests and semi-arid regions, two areas where we expect the EVI to
   make its most significant contributions in assessment of climate- and
   human-induced changes in vegetation. ” The EVI has increased
   sensitivity within very dense vegetation, and it has built-in
   corrections for several factors that can interfere with the
   satellite-based vegetation mapping, like smoke and background noise
   caused by light reflecting off soil.

   The bi-weekly and monthly vegetation index maps have wide usability by
   biologists, natural resources managers, and climate modelers. They can
   track naturally occurring fluctuations in vegetation, such as seasonal
   changes, as well as those that result from land use change, such as
   deforestation. The EVI can also monitor changes in vegetation resulting
   from climate change, such as expansion of deserts or extension of
   growing seasons.

   MODIS’ observations also allow scientists to track two “vital signs” of
   Earth’s vegetation. At Boston University, a team of researchers is
   using MODIS data to create global estimates of the green leaf area of
   Earth’s vegetation and how much sunlight the leaves are absorbing.
   Called LAI, for “Leaf Area Index,” and FPAR, for “Fraction of absorbed
   Photosynthetically Active Radiation,” both pieces of information are
   necessary for understanding how sunlight interacts with the Earth’s
   vegetated surfaces—from the top layer, called the canopy, through the
   understory vegetation, and down to the ground.

   LAI and FPAR

   Animations
   LAI animation (1.1 MB MPEG)
   FPAR animation (1.1 MB MPEG)

   High-Resolution Images
   LAI September 2000 (3.9 MB JPEG)
   LAI December 2000 (4.1 MB JPEG)
   LAI mid-April to mid-May 2001 (4.2 MB JPEG)
   FPAR September 2000 (4.0 MB JPEG)
   FPAR December 2000 (3.9 MB JPEG)
   FPAR mid-April to mid-May 2001 (4.0 MB JPEG)

   In Africa, rainfall is the most important factor that affects where
   people and animals live, and influences patterns of plant growth. Life
   happens when rain falls! These LAI and FPAR animations show the cycle
   of wet and dry seasons in Africa from September 2000 through May 2001
   and the corresponding variation in the green leaf area and how much
   sunlight the leaves are absorbing over the course of a year. The
   seasons in the Southern Hemisphere stand in direct opposition to those
   of the Northern Hemisphere while meteorological patterns in the
   Northern Hemisphere roughly mirror those in the Southern Hemisphere.
   For example, when summer comes in the northern part of Africa in June,
   the winter (dry season) takes over South Africa, drying out green
   leaves. Scientists are concerned that Africa is becoming drier and that
   the Sahara desert is getting bigger. The MODIS LAI maps can help to
   better understand this desert creep. The images above compare LAI to
   FPAR in December of 2000. (Credit NASA/GSFC/Boston University)

   Scientist Yuri Knyazikhin is part of the Boston team using the
   observations to create these first-ever global LAI and FPAR maps. Daily
   observations are combined at weekly intervals into a single map that
   shows leaf area and absorbed sunlight for every square kilometer of the
   Earth’s land surface during the time period.

   “The interaction of sunlight with a forest canopy or other vegetation
   has a large influence on climate. Knowing how much light is absorbed
   and distributed among the canopy, the understory, and the ground makes
   us better able to model and predict the energy exchange between the
   earth and atmosphere, ” says Knyazikhin. That flow of energy is what
   drives our climate. Year to year changes in LAI and FPAR could be a
   signal of longer-term climate change.

   To make the LAI/FPAR maps, Knyazikhin and his team have a computer
   simulate what different types and amounts of vegetation would look like
   from space. The computer then compares the images collected by MODIS to
   the simulated images until it finds just the right match. Next it
   calculates the corresponding leaf area and absorbed radiation. In
   addition to their important scientific contributions, the maps have
   real-world uses, like assessing the grazing potential of rangelands, or
   identifying areas at risk for wildfires.

   The Terra MODIS observations began in February 2000 and are expected to
   continue through at least 2004. Another MODIS is planned for launch
   aboard NASA’s upcoming Aqua mission. In addition to its observations of
   vegetation, MODIS collects information on atmospheric and oceanic
   conditions, such as cloud cover and ocean temperature. The EVI, LAI,
   and FPAR observations are available free of charge from the Earth
   Resources Observation Systems Data Center in Sioux Falls, SD.

   Launched December 18, 1999, NASA’s Terra satellite is the flagship of
   the Earth Observing System series of satellites, part of NASA’s Earth
   Science Enterprise, a long-term research program dedicated to
   understanding how human-induced and natural changes affect our global
   environment.

   Contact:
   Lynn Chandler
   Phone: 301-286-2806
   Lynn.Chandler.1@gsfc.nasa.gov

   For more information about LAI & FPAR, visit
   http://cybele.bu.edu/modismisr/other.html

   For more information about EVI, visit
   http://gaea.fcr.arizona.edu/projects/modis/


   Global EVI

   Animation
   Global EVI Animation (1.2 MB QT)
   Hi-res Global EVI Animation (8.4 MB QT)

   Hi-res Images
   May 21-Jul 21, 2000 (410 KB JPEG)
   Aug 21-Oct 21, 2000 (410 KB JPEG)
   Nov 21, 2000-Jan 21, 2001 (410 KB JPEG)
   Feb 21-Apr 21, 2001 (410 KB JPEG)

   The MODIS Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) provides a look at vegetation
   around the globe year round. The seasonal images in this animation were
   made from averaging two months of MODIS EVI observations centered on
   the first day of each season: a month before and after June 21, 2000;
   September 21, 2001; December 21, 2000; and March 21, 2001. As the
   seasons change, the mirror effect of seasonality is seen, with
   vegetation alternatively blooming and fading, and one hemisphere’s
   vegetation is high while the other is low. The images at top show EVI
   during two different seasons. Vegetation ranges from 0, indicating no
   vegetation, to nearly 1, indicating densest vegetation. Gray areas
   indicate places where observations were not collected. (Credit:
   NASA/GSFC/University of Arizona)

   EVI in North America

   EVI Palette

   Animation
   US EVI Animation (460 KB QT)
   Hi-res US EVI Animation (12.4 MB MPEG)

   Hi-res Images
   Jan 1-16, 2001 (1.9 MB JPEG)
   Mar 22-Apr 6, 2001 (2.1 MB JPEG)
   May 25-Jun 9, 2001 (2.3 MB JPEG)

   MODIS EVI observations from June of 2000 through May 2001 for the
   United States shows the cycle of vegetation from one season to the
   next—from vegetation’s summer peak, through the first winter snowfall,
   to the new growth of spring, and the returning lushness of summer. EVI
   observations can help determine how human- and climate-induced changes
   are affecting vegetation in the U.S. and around the world. The three
   images above show spring arriving in the United States. Vegetation
   ranges from 0, indicating no vegetation, to nearly 1, indicating
   densest vegetation. (Credit: NASA/GSFC/University of Arizona)

   Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
