http://crwcd.gov/boatrfp.html

                            REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

                   WOLFORD MOUNTAIN RESERVOIR BOAT RENTALS

                 COLORADO RIVER WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT

   The Colorado River Water Conservation District (District) owns and
   operates a reservoir, campground and recreation facilities on Muddy
   Creek, near the Town of Kremmling, Colorado. (See Exhibit A for a
   description of the constructed facilities.) Proposals to operate a Boat
   Rental and/or a marina facility for the 2002 through 2006 recreation
   seasons are currently being solicited..

   The concessionaire will be responsible for providing the following
   services:

   Provision of all facilities, equipment and personnel necessary for a
   boat rental operation at the Wolford Mountain Recreation Area. This
   shall include, but not limited to:

     * Docks
     * Boats and accessory equipment
     * Operations and/or storage building

     * The facility shall be open as a minimum on Weeekends from Memorial
       Day to Independence Day, and daily from Independence Day through
       Labor Day.
     * The contractor shall comply with all applicable US Coast Guard and
       State of Colorado Regulations concerning the operation and rental
       of vessels

   The proposed contractor shall submit to the District the following
   information:
     * Kinds, amount, and quality of proposed operating and maintenance
       services, including reservations system, proposed staffing, number
       of on-site personnel, and location of supervisory staff.
     * Experience in managing boat rental or marina facilities.
     * Resumes of Key personnel to be involved in management.
     * Percent of Gross Revenues to be remitted to the District.
     * Names, addresses and phone numbers of at least three references
       relating to similar facility management.
     * Desired investments in facility by contractor. (optional)
     * Intended advertising for the area and facilities.

   The successful contractor will be expected to operate the facility in a
   professional, businesslike manner, providing high quality service to
   the users and maintaining the facility in excellent condition.

   Further information may be obtained by contacting:

   David Merritt, Chief Engineer
   Colorado River Water Conservation District
   PO Box 1120
   Glenwood Springs, CO 81602

   (970) 945-8522

   dmerritt@crwcd.org

   Proposals shall be submitted to the above address by Close of Business,
   January 31^st, 2002.

   Exhibit A

                            FACILITY DESCRIPTION

   Wolford Mountain Reservoir is a 66,000 acre foot reservoir, covering
   approximately 1,500 surface acres. It is five miles long and 110 feet
   deep at the dam. The Reservoir is stocked with Rainbow Trout, Brown
   Trout, Cutbow, Splake, and Kokanee salmon and has become a popular
   fishery.

   The Recreation Area (Rec Area) situated in Section 13, T2N, R81W, is
   located mid lake and is bounded by the Reservoir to the east, US 40 to
   the west, Alkali Slough to the south, and Pass Creek to the north. Also
   within this area is the Maintenance and Operations Facility for the
   project.

   The Rec Area consists of:
   1) Campground
   2) Boat launch/parking
   3) Day Use area
   4) Group Use area
                 Dump Station

   1) Campground The campground consists of 48 individual campsites with
   electric hook-ups, picnic tables and grills. Twenty-four of the sites
   have slabs and 24 have slabs and shelters. There are two restroom
   blocks with composting toilets, sinks, drinking fountains and
   washbasins. The two host campsites are located on Loop B and C.

   2) Boat Launch/parking This area consists of a 32' wide concrete boat
   ramp extending from elevation 7450 to 7490, with a courtesy dock and a
   owners dock. There is a restroom block, a composting fish station, and
   a large group picnic shelter and parking for over 100 vehicles.
   Additionally, a Boat Rental facility is operated from this area, under
   a separate concession contract.

   3) Day Use Area An additional day use area is located south of the boat
   launch area, and contains a volleyball court, a large picnic shelter, a
   vault toilet and parking.

   4) Group Use Area Located at the far southern end of the Rec Area, the
   Group Use Area consists of a restroom block, two large picnic shelters
   and a large parking lot. This open area on the edge of a reservoir
   embankment is ideal for pitching tents by two separate groups.

   Fresh water is located throughout the rec area and a dump station is
   available on site.

                                 CONTACT US


                                     SEARCH

    HOME / COLORADO RIVER DISTRICT / WESTERN COLORADO RIVERS / WATER LIFE
    WOLFORD MOUNTAIN / WATER MARKS / ELKHEAD PROJECT / WATER EDUCATION /
                                NEWS AND INFO
   YOUR MIND / MARKETING POLICIES / GRANT PROGRAMS / PRODUCTS & MATERIALS
