http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERC/NC097136.HTML

                               WEATHER SERVICE
                              Operations Manual

   Issue Date    Org. Code
        Program  Part  Chap.
   10-14-71
   W111x3
            C        09

                    WEATHER FORECAST IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

   Table of Contents:

        1. Purpose

        2. Program Description

        3. The Technical Information and Documentation Project

      *4. The Forecaster and Weather Service Specialist Training Project

        5. The Forecast Development Project

        6. The Quality Control and Verification Project

        7. Responsibility

                                  * * * * *

   1.      Purpose.  Much of the success of the total service program of
   the Weather Service rests on the quality of the field weather
   forecasting program. Weather forecasts cannot be made with perfect
   accuracy at present or within the foreseeable future, but it is vital
   that the technology employed in the forecasting service be the best
   which the science of meteorology and mathematical prediction will
   sustain. It is the purpose of the Weather Forecast Improvement Program
   to insure that the weather forecasting operations are conducted in
   accordance with sound scientific practices. This chapter describes the
   program and assigns organizational responsibilities.

   *2.     Program Description.  The Weather Forecast Improvement Program
   consists of activities in development, indoctrination, training, and
   monitoring. Formal research and development activities related to
   weather forecasting problems are conducted primarily in the National
   Meteorological Center and the Techniques Development Laboratory, and
   secondarily, in other portions of NOAA including particularly the
   National Hurricane Research Laboratory and the National Severe Storms
   Laboratory. These activities are generally aimed at advancing the
   general level of forecasting. Development or engineering activities
   related to specific forecasting problems will be carried on within the
   Techniques Development Laboratory, the Regional Scientific Services
   Divisions, the three National Forecast Centers, Weather Service
   Forecast Offices, and Weather Service Offices.

   *The Weather Forecast Improvement Program for field activities will be
   organized into the following projects:

        a.  Technical Information and Documentation Project

       *b. Forecaster and Weather Service Specialist Training Project

        c.  Forecast Development Project

        d.  Quality Control and Verification Project

   *Regional Headquarters, Weather Service Forecast Offices, and Weather
   Service Offices should have identifiable projects, as appropriate to
   their mission, in each of these areas.

   3.   The Technical Information and Documentation Project.  The
   Technical Information and Documentation Project will be concerned with
   the following items:

        a.   Station Technical Libraries.  Station technical libraries
   will be established and equipped in accordance with recommended
   listings provided in WSOM Chapter A-15.

        b.  Technical Handbooks.  In addition to standard reference works
   on weather analysis and forecasting, it will be necessary to develop a
   series of technical handbooks covering various aspects of field
   forecasting operations. These will be developed and published jointly
   by the Regional Headquarters and the Weather Analysis and Prediction
   Division of Weather Service Headquarters. A list of current handbooks
   applicable to forecasting operations is provided in appropriate WSOM
   chapters.

        c.  Technical Memoranda, Scientific Reports, and Miscellaneous
   Technical Publications.  From time to time both the Regional and
   Weather Service Headquarters will need to publish technical information
   of a nondirective nature relating to forecasting operations. This
   information will appear in the form of Technical Memoranda, Technical
   Bulletins, Technical Attachments, Scientific Reports, or Regional
   Bulletins appearing as a part of the Staff Notes. These will be issued
   in the volume and with the frequency required to keep professional
   forecasters apprised of developments in meteorological theory and
   practice.

   *4.     The Forecaster and Weather Service Specialist Training Project.
    The Training Project will be conducted through:

        a.  On-station seminars conducted by Scientific Services or other
   personnel during periodic visits and short, on-the-job training
   sessions.

        b. Organization of formal in-residence courses at Weather Service
   Headquarters, Regional Headquarters, or the Weather Service Technical
   Training Center.

        c.  Participation in full time university assignment program,
   normally for one- or two-semester training assignments.

   *It is desirable that every forecaster participate in at least 20 hours
   of training, distinct from job-oriented training; that is, training
   aimed at producing knowledge and skill related to specific job
   assignment, each calendar year. It is desirable that Weather Service
   Specialists participate in 10 hours of such training each year.
   On-station training seminars will, therefore, need to be conducted on a
   voluntary attendance basis several times per year at every Weather
   Service Forecast Office and Weather Service Office. In addition to this
   informal training, it is the intention of the National Weather Service
   that every forecaster and Weather Service Specialist be able to attend
   some formal training course or school at least once each 10-year period
   of his career. Our long-range goal is to enable these individuals to
   receive some formal training at least once every 5 years. In-house
   courses sponsored by Regional or Weather Service Headquarters and the
   Weather Service Technical Training Center are organized for this
   purpose.

   *5.  The Forecast Development Project.  Every Weather Service Forecast
   Office and Weather Service Office should have an active Forecast
   Development Project which is concerned with the solution of those
   forecasting problems that are of major importance to the community or
   area served by the office. The activities carried on under this project
   are:

        a.  Problem Identification.  A careful analysis of local
   climatology, community and user needs, and forecasting technology is
   carried out in order to isolate important local forecasting problems.

        b.  Forecasting Studies.  These are technical investigations,
   quite limited in scope, which seek to illuminate the meteorological
   factors involved in the forecasting problem. The results of these
   studies are commonly presented in the form of a local synoptic
   climatology or conditional climatology of the weather event in
   question. Frequently these studies form the basis of a technique
   development requirement that can be forwarded to TDL or NMC.

   6.  The Quality Control and Verification Project.  The isolation and
   identification of forecast deficiencies are aided by an aggressive
   quality control and verification program. Quality control requires the
   establishment of reasonable performance standards, coupled with active
   monitoring and follow-up efforts. Weather Service Headquarters
   administers the National Forecast Verification Programs concerned with
   establishing general performance levels and significant changes in
   these levels. Monthly and semiannual summaries of performances are
   furnished to Regional Headquarters and forecast offices. Special
   summaries and computations can be developed and provided on request
   from the Regional Headquarters to meet specific needs or to support
   local studies of performance. If these data do not furnish all the
   performance information required by field managers, special
   verification studies may be undertaken on a station or regional basis.
   Local or regional verification programs and studies should be limited
   to those concerned with individual forecaster and station comparative
   performance analyses.

   7.   Responsibility.  The responsibilities for the execution of the
   Weather Forecast Improvement Program are assigned as follows:

        a.  The National Meteorological Center is responsible for
   conducting the development and testing necessary to improve the quality
   of the basic meteorological guidance products for field use, and for
   the documentation of the descriptions of the models, methods, and
   general characteristics of products provided as guidance.

        b.  The Techniques Development Laboratory is responsible for
   conducting development programs aimed at advancing general forecasting
   methodology that can be applied in field forecasting activities and for
   furnishing guidance and support to regional efforts in forecast
   development.

        c. The Weather Analysis and Prediction Division is responsible
   for:

             (1)  The development and publication of technical handbooks
   providing guides on the application of NMC products in field
   forecasting operations and for documenting the state of the science in
   weather forecasting technology applicable in field operations.

             (2)  The development of Service-wide training programs for
   forecasters and Weather Service Specialists.

             (3)  The conduct of the national forecast verification
   program including analyses and summaries.

             (4)  The identification of requirements for general
   forecasting methods development and documentation of these for
   validation.

        d.  The Regional Director is responsible for the overall
   implementation and execution of the field Weather Forecast Improvement
   Program at Regional Headquarters, at Weather Service Forecast Offices
   and at Weather Service Offices, and for assignment of responsibility
   for:

             (1)  Provision of consultation and assistance to the field
   forecast development efforts aimed at engineering application of
   general methods for specific local or area needs.

             (2)  Maintenance of the regional technical information
   project.

             (3)  Organization of regional training projects and onstation
   seminars.

             (4)  Monitoring forecast performance, quality control and
   verification projects for the Regional Headquarters.

             (5)  Initiation of technique development requirements to meet
   regional needs.

        *e. Weather Service Forecast Offices and Weather Service Offices
   are responsible for:

             (1)  Identification and documentation of those forecasting
   problems or deficiencies that have major impact on their service
   program accomplishment.

             (2)  Initiation of requests for assistance or technique
   development requirements for local forecasting problems. These
   ordinarily will be transmitted to the Regional Scientific Services
   Division for appropriate action.

             (3)  Maintenance of technical information file on forecasting
   methods.

             (4)  Compilation of station forecast verification and
   performance data.

   _______________
   *Weather Service Offices headed by an OIC, or one with an MIC, plus a
   staff of one or two meteorologists will, of necessity, have programs of
   a reduced scope. If desirable, the WSOs under the guidance umbrella of
   a WSFO may request the assistance of the latter in carrying out its
   Weather Forecast Improvement Program responsibilities.
