http://images.jsc.nasa.gov/iams/html/iams.txt

   THE CAPTURE, DIGITIZING, REPRODUCING, AND DISTRIBUTING OF SHUTTLE
   IMAGES INTRODUCTION Each Shuttle mission produces 2000 to 5000
   photographic images. Most images are recorded on 35mm, 70mm, and 5 inch
   reversal (positive) film. Some 35mm images are recorded on negative
   film. The film is delivered to the Image Sciences Division immediately
   after the flight. The images are processed as soon as possible, and
   prints are made available for review and screening by the prime crew,
   personnel from the office of public affairs (PAO), and image management
   personnel. The images are also digitized into a Targa format file and
   compressed using a JPEG technique. The Targa image files are recorded
   on erasable optical disks (EOD's) and retained in the archive. The JPEG
   image files are maintained on an image file server. Two general sets of
   selected JPEG images are made available on the Internet via FTP,
   Gopher, or World Wide Web (WWW). All images which have been selected by
   either the Office of Public Affairs (PAO) and by the prime crew are
   made available. All earth observation images taken during the latest
   two Shuttle missions are also made available. Access may be obtained as
   follows: FTP://images.jsc.nasa.gov login: anonymous
   http://images.jsc.nasa.gov/html/home.htm Over 250,000 images have been
   captured, digitized, and stored. Currently, Mercury, Gemini, Apollo,
   and Skylab images are being captured when the capture workstations are
   not being used to capture Shuttle imagery. ISD also plans to capture
   much of the scientific and engineering photographic imagery taken on
   the Center. When sufficient images have been captured, the Targa image
   files are recorded on digital (D-2) video tape and used to produce
   video laser disks. At this time, two video disks have been produced
   containing over 150,000 images. An image selection and retrieval
   workstation has also been designed and constructed. Several of these
   workstations are currently in use at the Johnson Space Center. In the
   near future, the Image Sciences Division will produce CD-ROM's of
   selected image sets and distribute them to scientists and other users
   of the imagery. These CD-ROM's will also be made available for wider
   (public) distribution through methods yet to be determined. Several
   alternatives are being considered. The objective of this distribution
   is to distribute the imagery as widely as possible while recovering the
   cost of manufacturing the CD-ROM's. PROCESS A concise description of
   the digitizing, reproduction, and distribution process follows: 1.
   Within five days of the end of the mission, and with the assistance of
   the prime crew, image management personnel briefly describe the images
   and sort them into special categories for reproduction and
   distribution. The primary categories for distribution are earth
   observation images, experiment images, and images selected by both the
   PAO and the prime crew for release to the public. 2. The film is then
   forwarded to an image capture station where the images are imaged by a
   video camera having a resolution over 700 lines. The camera output
   signal (RGB) is captured by a Truevision Vista image capture card in a
   PC. The image is digitized as a Targa file at 756 x 486 pixels at 24
   bits per pixel (8 bits per color). The digital files are approximately
   1.1 megabytes in size and are written to an erasable optical disk (EOD)
   which serves as their archive medium. 3. When a sufficient number of
   image (Targa) files are available, selected image files are recorded on
   a digital (D-2) video tape using the EOD's as a source. Video pages of
   text (slates) describing the images are added to the recording. When
   the recording is complete, it is sent to the 3-M company where video
   laser disks are produced. Each video disk can contain up to 108,000
   images. At this time, two video disks have been produced. It is
   anticipated that one disk will be produced per year. The disk will
   contain earth observations imagery, PAO released imagery, and perhaps
   some video segments of selected missions. 5. All the EOD Targa image
   files are transferred to a hard drive and compressed using a JPEG
   compression technique to an average of 40k bytes at 640x480 pixels.
   These JPEG image files are then temporarily stored on an image file
   server using Novell software. 6. Periodically, the JPEG images are
   loaded on a file server with access from the Internet. THE IMAGE
   CAPTURE AND DIGITIZING PROCESS The requirement to quickly capture and
   digitize images taken with 35mm, 70mm and 5 inch film along with the
   lack of a large digital storage capacity, and the desire to design the
   system within the small, low-cost computer (PC, DOS, Windows) domain
   led to the selection of a video capture method and the digitizing of
   the image using a Truevision Vista image capture card. Preliminary
   experiments demonstrated that the Targa image file (1.1 megabytes)
   produced a satisfactory electronic print when exported to a dye
   sublimation printer. While not of high (magazine) publication quality,
   the print is usable for many purposes. Even images printed from the
   video disks produce usable images. The JPEG images as viewed on a
   computer monitor and as electronically printed are also very useful for
   many purposes. However, the primary objective of the image digital
   reproduction and distribution system is to provide imagery of
   sufficient quality to allow an experimenter to select specific images
   which can then be reproduced photographically at the highest possible
   quality. It is not cost effective to simply reproduce all Shuttle
   images photographically and distribute them to all researchers since
   many images do not contain pertinent information for every experiment
   and are not used. Viewing a lower quality digital image allows the
   scientist or other user to identify those photographs which are of
   particular interest to him. Only those images can then be requested in
   photographic form. Not only is there a significant cost saving for the
   photographic laboratory, but the digital images can be given a much
   broader distribution. revised 06/13/94
