http://www.lawd.uscourts.gov/information/webfaqs.html

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

   PLEADINGS/FILING

   Q Do I have to file my pleadings in the division to which the case is
   assigned?

   A No! Venue only applies to the district. 28 U.S.C. 98(c); Divisions
   are created for the convenience of the court in administration of
   cases. LR 77.3W In the interests of time and efficiency, pleadings
   should be mailed to:

   Robert H. Shemwell, Clerk
   300 Fannin St., Ste. 1167
   Shreveport, LA 71101-3083

   However, if the filing is time-sensitive, it may be presented to any
   office of the clerk for filing.

   Q Do you have after-hours filing:

   A Drop boxes are located at each office of the Clerk, i.e. in
   Alexandria, Lake Charles, Monroe, Shreveport, and Lafayette, for
   after-hours filing. Visit our Court Information, Court Locations for
   directions to the divisional offices.

   Q How many copies of each pleading do I file?

   A Only the original is required. If the filer desires a file-stamped
   copy, please include an extra copy along with a postage-paid return
   envelope. (The scheduling order, notice of setting or other
   instructions issued in the case, may require that copies be delivered
   to the judge.)

   Q Where are case and party indices located?

   A On-line information (i.e., Web PACER) for all divisions is available
   for civil cases filed 1/1/90 and after and non-sealed criminal cases
   filed 1/1/93 and after. This information is also available at public
   terminals at each division. Microfilm indices are maintained in each
   division from 1/1/78 to approximately 6/14/94. Prior to 1978, party
   name index cards for the entire district are available in the
   Shreveport clerk's office.

   Q How are judges assigned to cases?

   A Generally, cases are assigned on a geographic basis to the judges in
   the division to which the case is allotted. The cases, both civil and
   criminal, are randomly assigned upon filing to the judges in that
   division. Judges Haik, Doherty and Melançon share the Lake Charles
   criminal cases with Judge Trimble.

   Q What discovery material should be filed with the clerk's office?

   A Under the Uniform Local Rules for the Eastern, Middle, and Western
   Districts of Louisiana, discovery is not usually filed. Exceptions
   include excerpts of discovery materials used to support a motion, and
   when the court orders filing of particular discovery materials. See LR
   26.5.

   Q How do I get a transcript of court proceedings?

   A Transcripts are ordered directly from the court reporter transcribing
   the proceeding. See the Guide to Practice, Roster of Officials for a
   list of official court reporters.

   Q Do I have to pay a fee every time I file a pleading?

   A No! In federal court a litigant only pays a fee for filing of a new
   suit (Normally $150). Subsequent pleadings can be filed without cost to
   the filer. The only filing fees that may be due are the fees ($105) for
   filing an appeal.

   Q Do I have to put down a deposit for jury costs when requesting a
   jury?

   A No! In federal court there is no cost for a jury trial unless such
   costs are awarded at the trial by the judge.

   Q Do I have to file a "Notice of Motion" and how do I set my motions?

   A In the Western District of Louisiana, it is not necessary to file a
   "Notice of Motion." Whenever a motion is filed, the court will issue
   its own "Motion Notice" which sets forth briefing times and the date
   upon which the motion will be presented to the court. Oral arguments
   are not held in motions filed in the Western District unless permission
   is granted by the judge. LR 78.1W Only Judge Haik in Lafayette
   routinely grants oral arguments.

   FINANCIAL INFORMATION

   Q To whom do we make checks payable?

   A Make checks to: Clerk, U. S. District Court.

   Q What is the current post judgment interest rate?

   A Visit the Post Judgement Interest Rates page of the Administrative
   Office of the U. S. Courts at:

                http://www.uscourts.gov/postjud/postjud.html
                     or call the A.O. at 1-202-502-4369.

   NATURALIZATION /PASSPORTS

   Q Where can I get forms and information about becoming a United States
   citizen?

   A The Western District of Louisiana holds naturalization ceremonies for
   new citizens. Applicants for citizenship must file a Petition for
   Naturalization with the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).
   Forms and further information may be obtained from the regional office
   of the INS at:
   Immigration & Naturalization Service
   701 Loyola Ave., Rm. T-8005
   New Orleans, LA 70113
   1-800-375-5283 (Information)
   1-800-870-3676 (Forms)
   Web site:
   http://www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/fieldoffices/neworleans/index.htm
   Or visit the Home page of the National Immigration & Naturalization
   Service at web site:

                          http://www.ins.usdoj.gov

   Q Where are naturalization records kept?

   A Naturalization petition stubs (sorted by name of the petitioner) are
   on file with the clerk's office in Shreveport from 1907-1996.
   Thereafter, petitions are maintained by INS. The court in Shreveport
   maintains an order listing petitioners from 1996 to present (i.e., an
   approximate date of naturalization must be known to conduct a search).

   Q How will I know when my naturalization ceremony is to occur?

   A Immigration and Naturalization Service will send a written notice
   when you are to be naturalized, usually 2-3 weeks prior to the
   ceremony.

   Q Can the court replace my certificate of naturalization?

   A No! Replacement certificates are provided by the INS office that
   issued the original certificate.

   Q Can the court verify my citizenship?

   A Yes! Using court records, citizenship can be verified by contacting
   the clerk's office in the city in which you were naturalized.

   Q Does the court issue passports?

   A The Western District of Louisiana no longer processes passports. To
   obtain a passport, visit "Passport Information" at the U. S. Start
   Department's web site:

                           http://travel.state.gov
