http://km.gov/acrobat.html

   [km-gov-title.gif] FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
        Welcome to KM.GOV Hot and Late Breaking Knowledge Management News
   Working Group Members Working Group Documents Special Interest Groups
   Knowledge Management Resources and Links Knowledge Management Events
   and Conferences [e-KM.gif] Federal Chief Information Officers' Council



Browsers and Tools/Plug-ins

   This site is best viewed with:
   -  a screen resolution of at least 800x600; and
   -  the latest versions of


            Netscape Navigator or   Microsoft Internet Explorer
            Get Netscape Now      Get Microsoft Internet Explorer


   Get Macromedia Shockwave - Macromedia Shockwave and Macromedia Flash
   Player

     Get Acrobat Reader - Adobe Acrobat Reader

   [transparent.gif]

   Files ending in .PDF are Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format files.
   Acrobat files can be read on your computer screen or printed using an
   Adobe Acrobat "Reader" available free from Adobe. If you wish to create
   your own Acrobat files, you will need to purchase the commercial Adobe
   Acrobat package.

Installing Adobe Acrobat

   The Adobe Acrobat Home Page contains detailed information on this
   product, and allows you to download free copies of Acrobat for Windows,
   Macintosh, or UNIX systems.
   We suggest that you configure your Adobe Acrobat Reader as a plug-in
   application for your World Wide Web browser.  This can be accomplished
   with Adobe Acrobat Reader version 3.0 or higher, and Netscape (2.0 or
   higher), Internet Explorer (3.0 or higher), or compatible browsers.
   This allows the reader software to integrate closely with the browser
   and allows you to begin to read the PDF file while it is downloading.
   Version 3.0 or higher of the Adobe Acrobat reader also permits reading
   of PDF pages side-by-side.
   If you have an Internet browser installed on your system at the time
   that you install Adobe Acrobat, it should automatically install itself
   as a helper application in the browser. You will know that it is
   properly installed as a helper application if you can view the PDF file
   in the browser window, with a single row of special Acrobat buttons
   along the top of the viewing screen.
   Note that with versions of the Reader prior to 3.0, you cannot save a
   PDF file to your local disk after you have read it. You had to have the
   commercial Adobe Acrobat software in order to save the file. This
   limitation was removed with version 3.0 of the Reader software.


Printing Adobe Acrobat Files

   When printing Adobe Acrobat PDF files from within your web browser, DO
   NOT use the web browser print facility. Instead, use the print button
   at the left end of the special Adobe Acrobat tool bar, which appears
   immediately above the viewing window. See illustration below for
   location of this print button.

                       Adobe Illustration on Printing
