http://www.doi.gov/news/011221.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior

                              [news_header.jpg]

Bureau of Land Management

                                                                                Contacts: Larry Finfer

For release: December 21, 2001

                                                                                          202-208-6913

                               Celia Boddington

                               202-452-5128

        Kathleen Clarke Confirmed by U.S. Senate as New BLM Director

   Washington - The U.S. Senate confirmed today Kathleen Clarke, former
   director of Utah's Department of Natural Resources, as the new director
   for the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), an agency in the Department of
   the Interior.

   Interior Secretary Gale Norton praised Clarke's appointment. "Kathleen
   Clarke brings a highly successful record of innovative public lands
   management to the BLM," Norton said. "Her background and experience
   will be a tremendous asset in addressing natural resource issues and
   providing policy direction to this important agency."

   Clarke will be responsible for overseeing 262 million surface acres of
   BLM-managed land located primarily in the West, more than 700 million
   acres of sub-surface mineral estate across the nation, a budget of
   about $1.8 billion, and the agency's 9,000 employees. She will assume
   her duties immediately.

   "I am deeply honored to be appointed as Director of the BLM," Clarke
   said. "This is a particularly challenging and important time for our
   country, and I'm proud to take part in managing our nation's great
   natural resources."

   Clarke has served as executive director of the Utah Department of
   Natural Resources since 1998. Before that, she served that department
   as deputy director, starting in 1993. During her tenure with the
   Department of Natural Resources, Clarke was instrumental in working
   with the Utah legislature to secure $3 million a year in funding to
   protect and recover endangered species. She also worked closely with
   diverse interests to formulate the Great Salt Lake Resource Management
   Plan, a comprehensive program to conserve the lake's resources.

   Clarke also worked for Rep. James V. Hansen (R-Utah) from 1987 to 1993
   as director of constituent services and executive director of Rep.
   Hansen's office in Ogden, Utah, office. Prior to that, she was co-owner
   of a construction and real estate business in Kaysville, Utah. In
   addition, she served as staff assistant in the Washington, D.C. office
   of Sen. Wallace F. Bennett (R-Utah).

   The BLM manages more land than any other federal agency. This year
   marks the 25^th anniversary of the Federal Land Policy and Management
   Act (FLPMA), which gave the BLM its comprehensive mission to manage the
   public lands for a variety of uses so as to benefit present and future
   generations. The BLM accomplishes this by managing for such resources
   as livestock grazing and mineral development, which helps meet the
   nation's energy needs, and by conserving natural, historical, cultural,
   and other resources on the public lands. Most of the country's
   BLM-managed public land is located in 12 Western states, including
   Alaska. These lands, once remote, now provide the growing communities
   of the West with open space that gives the region much of its
   character.

                                    -DOI-

    You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

    You can also view the index of press releases

    U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
