http://muller.lbl.gov/teaching/Physics10/pages01/NatureofWar.html

                            The Nature of the War

                              Richard A. Muller

                             September 21, 2001

   Last night, President George W. Bush addressed the nation concerning
   the terrorist threat. I am sharing my thoughts for those who are
   interested.

   The one aspect of Bush's speech last night that completely surprised
   me, was his attack on the Taliban. (I had hoped, previously, that we
   would enlist them to try and convict bin Laden, but that is obviously
   not going to happen now.) I immediately sensed that he already knew
   that the Taliban was going to reject his demands. That means that he is
   getting information from some of the mullahs.

   I also interpreted his public attack on the Taliban as an indication
   that he is preparing the US public for invasion. Whereas previously I
   thought we were going to bomb the terrorist camps, now I think we are
   going to go right into Kabul and oust the Taliban.

   How many people in Afghanistan will be relieved at this? Many -- but
   most Afghanis don't like us either. Perhaps the US will try to arrange
   a coup in the next few days or weeks, before we send our troops in.
   Remember -- we have NOT recognized the Taliban as a legitimate
   government.

   After the Taliban are replaced, there will be many Afghanis who will be
   outraged with the US. But there will also be a large number Afghanis
   who will be very pleased. In particular, many articulate and educated
   Afghan women will be interviewed on CNN saying how glad they are that
   the Taliban have been removed, and how grateful they are to the US for
   restoring their lives.

   Bin Laden is like Hitler, but Hitler had made his country wealthy and
   happy prior to taking it to war. Afghanistan is one of the poorest
   countries in the world. A key element of our program will be to bring
   food and medicine to the people of Afghanistan. The tricky part will be
   the government that we install. Remember, we succeeded in installing a
   government in a religiously-fanatical country, maybe in two of them, at
   the end of WWII. It is not impossible.

   A key element is food and medicine. It is hard to hate someone who is
   feeding you. There is famine in Afghanistan that the Taliban believe is
   the will of Allah. We have nothing that the Taliban want, but we have a
   lot that the people of Afghanistan need. Massive aid, delivered
   simultaneously with the invasion, is an important part of the plan.
   Everyone in Afghanistan will know that the arrival of US troops in
   their village means food and medicine. This will be broadcast via radio
   and through dropped leaflets.

   The US military does not believe that Afghanistan will be a quagmire.
   They have studied the Russian experience, and will do things
   differently. They will take out all advanced weapons quickly. Remember,
   when the Russians were there, they had to face an enemy that was being
   resupplied by us. Nobody is going to be resupplying the Taliban. The US
   will have AWACS and other radar, U-2s, and drones constantly surveying
   the countryside. There are no jungles in Afghanistan.Troops can hide in
   caves, but they will be seen when they move to a new cave. Small arms
   will survive, and snipers will be a constant problem. In the past, a
   few deaths from snipers would have brought the US troops to a
   standstill. Things are different now. We will take the casualties, and
   take out the snipers.

   I would bet that we already have special forces inside the country
   setting up observation posts. They are already setting up radio
   stations to broadcast to the people of Afghanistan our version of the
   truth, and the imminent arrival of food and medicine. They are already
   enlisting the aid of sympathetic mullahs to serve as the announcers for
   these radio stations. The enlistment of famous people that are locally
   respected is a standard part of the Special Ops procedures. These
   mullahs will make it clear that we respect Islam, but that the
   distorted version preached by the Taliban is no longer in force.

   In doing all this, we will have the complete support of Pakistan. In
   return for this, we will help remove "terrorist" elements from that
   country. This means, of course, not those terrorists that sneak into
   Kashmir, but those terrorists that do not support the Pakistani
   government. We will once again be stabilizing a regime that was not
   popularly elected. But this is war....

   Only after some success in Afghanistan will we attack Iraq. We will
   make Iraq think that we are not going to attack, because we don't want
   them to be prepared. We will "leak" statements that we cannot attack
   Iraq for fear of alienating the Russians or the French. But within a
   month (my guess) we will suddenly attack all of Saddam's palaces and
   other "secret" facilities. Everything that we were denied access to, in
   the UN inspections, will be destroyed. Bush will state that the reason
   that we did this is not related to bin Laden, but to the wider issue.
   We could not afford to wait until a terrorist used a nuclear or BW
   weapon against us. Since we "knew" that these weapons were under
   development in Iraq, it was his duty as President to destroy them.

   We will probably not land troops in Iraq until Afghanistan is
   completely "pacified."

   Remember, I am only analyzing, not endorsing. This is what I guess is
   happening, and what will happen.
