http://www.ta.doc.gov/PhotoEssays/Pht011203.htm

   [red bar]
   [TA] [TA] [About] [News & Views] [Publications] [Activities &
   Partnerships] [Honors] [Resources]
   [red bar]

                           Converging Technologies
                        to Improve Human Performance
                         A workshop co-sponsored by
                      the National Science Foundation,
                      the Technology Administration and
                 the National Science and Technology Council
                               Washington, DC
                             December 3-4, 2001

   On December 3-4, 2001 the Technology Administration (TA) joined with
   the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Science and
   Technology Councils Subcommittee on Nanoscale Science, Engineering and
   Technology (NSTC-NSEC) to sponsor a workshop on Converging Technologies
   to Improve Human Performance.
   Bordogna speaking

   This roundtable initiated an important forward-looking discussion of
   how nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology and cognitive
   technologies may combine in pairs, trios or collectively to provide
   advances in human longevity, quality of life, learning and
   productivity. Each of these technologies offers the potential for
   extraordinary advances in its own right, but the potential in their
   combinations is truly profound.

   Dr. Joseph Bordogna, Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation
   opened the event by articulating the vision for the workshop,
   establishing the framework and identifying the goals.
   Bond speaking

   Under Secretary Phillip J. Bond provided the opening keynote address
   discussing the extraordinary economic and social potential of these
   technologies-individually and collectively; their technical and ethical
   challenges; the issues policymakers and technologists face in their
   development and deployment; and the need for the United States to
   assert and maintain global leadership in these fields.
   Gingrich speaking with Roco looking on

   Former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Newt Gingrich
   extolled the importance of these technologies to the Nation and
   implored scientists and engineers to engage in two endeavors outside
   the laboratory critical to U.S. success in these fields: first, to
   communicate to the American public in clear, understandable terms the
   enormous potential at the confluence of these technologies, generally,
   and their own work, in particular; and, second, to engage forcefully in
   the public arena to generate the political will necessary to ensure
   sustained Federal investments in these fields.
   Roco speaking

   Dr. Mihail C. Roco--chair of the NSTC's Subcommittee on Nanoscale
   Science, Engineering and Technology and the driving force behind the
   workshop--emphasized to conference participants the importance of
   looking beyond the possibilities inherent in current scientific and
   technical activities in nano-, bio-, info- and cognitive technologies
   to envision bold advances that could be possible twenty or thirty years
   from now as a result of the convergence of these disciplines.

   The roundtable served as an environment for substantial discussions and
   visioning exercises, but perhaps its most important function was to
   begin to remove the silo walls too often associated with research, to
   unlock the full potential of these converging technologies, by bringing
   together:
     * experts from each of these disciplines;
     * technologists, ethicists, policy analysts and policymakers;
     * parties interested in the human, societal and economic impacts of
       these technologies;
     * representatives from industry, academia and government; and
     * experts from many of the key Federal agencies and national
       laboratories.

   NSF plans to publish a report on the workshop presentations,
   proceedings and products.

   [red bar]
    TA Home OTP Home About TA News and Views Publications Activities and
                        Partnerships Honors Resources
