http://www.usdoj.gov/ag/speeches/2002/012502transcriptofsuspectedterrorist.htm

                         Department of Justice Seal

                         Attorney General Transcript

              News Conference - Identity of Suspected Terrorist

                          Friday, January 25, 2002

                            DOJ Conference Center

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: Good afternoon. Last Thursday, or a week ago
     yesterday, along with FBI Director Mueller, the Department of
     Justice released photographs and video of five suspected terrorists.
     Our initial analysis of the video indicated that the videotapes
     depicted young men delivering what appeared to be martyrdom messages
     from suicide terrorists.

     As of last week, we had identified four of the individuals: Ramzi
     Binalshibh, Abd Al-Rahim, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, and Khalid Ibn
     Muhammad Al-Juhani. At that time, the identity of the fifth
     suspected terrorist remained unknown.

     Over the last week, we've received hundreds of leads from
     conscientious citizens across the nation and around the world. With
     these leads and further analysis of evidence recovered from the
     rubble of Muhammad Atef's house in Afghanistan, we have gained
     additional information about the fifth suspected terrorist. The name
     of the fifth terrorist is Al Rauf bin al Habib bin Yousef al-Jiddi.
     Al- Jiddi, who is a Canadian citizen, was born in Tunisia and is 36
     years of age. He has black hair; is approximately 5 feet 10 inches
     tall and may weigh approximately 220 pounds.

     We identified al-Jiddi through discovery of a suicide letter found
     in the ruins of the Atef residence by the U.S. military personnel in
     Afghanistan.

     The letter, which is still being fully analyzed, was recently
     translated. In addition, the Canadian government assisted us by
     identifying Al-Jiddi. We have also identified an associate who may
     be traveling with Al-Jiddi. His name is Faker Boussora. He is 37
     years of age, is approximately five feet, eight inches and weighs
     approximately 160 to 170 pounds, has a round face and prominent
     ears.

     We believe Boussora may also be involved in a martyrdom mission.
     Boussora is also a Canadian citizen, born in Tunisia. The FBI has
     alerted law enforcement authorities across the United States and is
     also working closely with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Both
     individuals should be considered extremely dangerous. Additionally,
     the FBI has provided law enforcement with the same pictures that you
     see to my left.

     The photograph in the upper left is the picture you saw last week of
     Al-Jiddi, taken from the video. Below that picture is a photograph
     retouched by the FBI to show how Al-Jiddi may look with a
     Westernized appearance. The picture in the upper right was found
     with the 1999 suicide letter in the ruins of Atef's house in
     Afghanistan. Finally, the picture in the lower-right corner is of
     Faker Boussora, Al-Jiddi's associate.

     Today I am also disclosing FBI-retouched photographs of the other
     four individuals seen on the videos recovered from Atef's residence
     in Afghanistan.

     Again, these retouched photos show how these individuals may look
     with a Westernized appearance. We hope that by providing these
     photos to the media that citizens will be able to help law
     enforcement identify and apprehend these terrorists.

     In particular, I would like to thank the Canadian government for
     providing significant assistance in the identification of Al-Jiddi.
     Today's announcement demonstrates the extraordinarily close and
     cooperative relationship that has been built between the United
     States and Canadian law enforcement.

     Today's announcement is another example of the integrated effort we
     are pursuing to protect all people of all nations from cowardly acts
     of terrorism. It is a seamless effort that involves civil
     authorities, military authorities, intelligence resources,
     intelligence analysis, law enforcement, and the cooperation from
     foreign governments. As we discover more information, we will
     continue to share it with the international community to assist our
     efforts against terrorism.

     Again, I want to advise the public to exercise vigilance and common
     sense in the face of the terrorism threat.

     Anyone who believes that he or she knows the identity or whereabouts
     of al Al-Jiddi, Boussora, or the four other suspected terrorists --
     anyone who knows or has information about them is urged to contact
     the nearest FBI office or visit the FBI's website, www.ifccfbi.gov,
     or contact the U.S. embassy or consulate in a foreign setting, if
     individuals are unable to contact the FBI.

     I am grateful for the cooperation of both citizens and governments
     in helping us develop these tools of investigation.

     I'd be pleased to answer your inquiries at this time. Yes?

     Q Where did you obtain the picture of Boussora?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: I'm prepared to provide the picture and grateful
     that we have these resources. I'm not prepared to identify further.

     Q The Canadian government helped you. Did they tell you any way that
     these two were linked? Can you tell us anything about that?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: I've provided the information that I'm able to
     provide you on that.

     Yes, sir?

     Q Do you have any information that you've developed since you
     originally put these out, that these people are still alive or that
     they may be in the United States?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: We do not know the whereabouts of these
     individuals. As a result, we are publicizing their photographs
     worldwide. It's my understanding that we have the cooperation not
     only of international news agencies in doing this -- and I released
     these photos with Larry King last Monday night and indicated at that
     time we would provide these additional enhanced images.

     And we are expecting people like "America's Ten Most Wanted" and
     other shows of that nature to also publicize them.

     Yes?

     Q Have you gotten any more information that they may have tried to
     enter the United States?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: We are not in possession of information giving
     us a location of these people.

     Q When was the last time that Al-Jiddi was known to have been in
     Canada? And are you concerned that the suspects may have reached
     closer to the U.S. border?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: I really -- I really don't know the answer to
     that question. We will try to find out as much as we can about the
     whereabouts of these individuals as the investigation progresses.

     Yes, sir?

     Q You said you received hundreds of tips from people who have seen
     these people. Could you give us an idea of whether these are
     associates of them, who have known them, how these people knew these
     suspects?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: We have -- in terms of -- I can't catalogue all
     the tips that we received, but we received information that helped
     us make these identifications. And to say more, I can't.

     Q Did the latest suicide letter give any indication of a planned
     attack? Do you have any further information that these men posed an
     imminent danger?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: Well, we think that individuals who make suicide
     videos and write suicide letters are dangerous individuals. They're
     individuals who have expressed their intention to hurt other people
     and to extinguish themselves in the process. And that's a way of
     signalling the intensity of their intent.

     Q Was this letter -- the suicide letter written by Al-Jiddi or his
     associate here? Is he the author of the suicide --

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: It's my understanding that he is the author of
     the letter and that the photograph on the upper right of the poster
     on the left was a photograph accompanying the letter when found.

     Thank you very much.

     Q Was Faker linked to a suicide note as well? Was there a suicide
     note by Faker?

     ATTY GEN. ASHCROFT: We believe that he may be an associate of this
     other individual, but we do not have information about a suicide
     letter from him.

     STAFF: We'll have -- do you all have all the pictures?

     END.
