http://www.hud.gov/buying/comq.cfm

   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development: Buying
   [Display the text version of this page] [Translate this site]
                                                                 [Search/Index]



   hud news
   news releases
   initiatives
   homes
   buying
   selling
   renting
   homeless
   home improvements
   hud homes
   fha refunds
   foreclosure
   consumer info
   communities
   your community
   volunteering
   organizing
   what works
   economic development
   working with hud
   grants
   programs
   contracts
   work online
   about hud
   hud jobs
   local info
   complaints
   resources
   library
   handbooks/ forms
   common questions
   most requested pages
   tools
   webcasts
   mailing lists
   federal clearinghouses
   contact us
   help

   Home > Buying

   common questions from first-time homebuyers



    E-mail this to a friend
    Print version
    En español



       1. Why should I buy, instead of rent?
             + Answer: You'll love the feeling of having something that's all
               yours - a home where your own personal style will tell the
               world who you are. A thriving vegetable garden in the
               backyard, a tiled entryway, a yellow kitchen...when you own,
               you can do it all your way! But there's more to owning a home
               than personal satisfaction. You can deduct the cost of your
               mortgage loan interest from your federal income taxes, and
               usually from your state taxes, too. And interest will compose
               nearly all of your monthly payment , for over half the number
               of years you'll be paying your mortgage. This adds up to hefty
               savings at the end of each year. And you're also allowed to
               deduct the property taxes you pay as a homeowner. If you rent,
               you write your monthly check and it's gone forever. Another
               financial plus in owning a home is the possibility its value
               will go up through the years.
       2. I've heard of HUD homes. What are HUD homes, and are they a good
          deal?
             + Answer: HUD homes can be a very good deal. When someone with a
               HUD insured mortgage can't meet the payments, the lender
               forecloses on the home; HUD pays the lender what is owed; and
               HUD takes ownership of the home. Then we sell it at market
               value as quickly as possible. Read all about buying a HUD home
               - one might be right for you! And check our listings of HUD
               homes - as well as homes being sold by other federal agencies.
       3. I've had bad credit, and I don't have much for a down-payment. Can
          I become a homebuyer?
             + Answer: You may be a good candidate for one of the federal
               mortgage programs that are available. A good place for you to
               start is by contacting one of the HUD-funded housing
               counseling agencies. They can help you sort through your
               options. In addition, contact your local government to see if
               there are any local homeownership programs that might work for
               you. Look in the blue pages of your phone directory for your
               local office of housing and community development or, if you
               can't find it, contact your mayor's office or your county
               executive's office.
       4. I'm a single mother. How would I go about buying a home?
             + Answer: Although you won't have the benefit of two incomes on
               which to qualify for a loan, there's no reason that you can't
               become a homeowner. Become familiar with the process, pick a
               good real estate broker, and think about getting pre-qualified
               for a loan. You might want to contact one of the HUD-funded
               housing counseling agencies in your area to talk through your
               options. And you also might want to think about buying a HUD
               home - they can be very good deals. Also, contact your local
               government to see if there are any local homebuying programs
               that could help you. Look in the blue pages of your phone
               directory for your local office of housing and community
               development or, if you can't find it, contact your mayor's
               office or your county executive's office.
       5. Should I use a real estate broker? How do I find one?
             + Answer: Using a real estate broker is a very good idea. All
               the details involved in home buying, particularly the
               financial ones, can be mind-boggling. A good real estate
               professional can guide you through the entire process and make
               the experience much easier. A real estate broker will be
               well-acquainted with all the important things you'll want to
               know about a neighborhood you may be considering...the quality
               of schools, the number of children in the area, the safety of
               the neighborhood, traffic volume, and more. He or she will
               help you figure the price range you can afford and search the
               classified ads and multiple listing services for homes you'll
               want to see. With immediate access to homes as soon as they're
               put on the market, the broker can save you hours of wasted
               driving-around time. When it's time to make an offer on a
               home, the broker can point out ways to structure your deal to
               save you money. He or she will explain the advantages and
               disadvantages of different types of mortgages, guide you
               through the paperwork, and be there to hold your hand and
               answer last-minute questions when you sign the final papers at
               closing. And you don't have to pay the broker anything! The
               payment comes from the home seller - not from the buyer.
               By the way, if you want to buy a HUD home, you will be
               required to use a real estate broker to submit your bid.
       6. How much money will I have to come up with to buy a home?
             + Answer: Well, that depends on a number of factors, including
               the cost of the house and the type of mortgage you get. In
               general, you need to come up with enough money to cover three
               costs: earnest money - the deposit you make on the home when
               you submit your offer, to prove to the seller that you are
               serious about wanting to buy the house; the down payment, a
               percentage of the cost of the home that you must pay when you
               go to settlement; and closing costs, the costs associated with
               processing the paperwork to buy a house.
               When you make an offer on a home, your real estate broker will
               put your earnest money into an escrow account. If the offer is
               accepted, your earnest money will be applied to the down
               payment or closing costs. If your offer is not accepted, your
               money will be returned to you. The amount of your earnest
               money varies. If you buy a HUD home, for example, your deposit
               generally will range from $500 - $2,000.
               The more money you can put into your down payment, the lower
               your mortgage payments will be. Some types of loans require
               10-20% of the purchase price. That's why many first-time
               homebuyers turn to HUD's FHA for help. FHA loans require only
               3% down - and sometimes less.
               Closing costs - which you will pay at settlement - average
               3-4% of the price of your home. These costs cover various fees
               your lender charges and other processing expenses. When you
               apply for your loan, your lender will give you an estimate of
               the closing costs, so you won't be caught by surprise. If you
               buy a HUD home, HUD may pay many of your closing costs.
       7. How do I know if I can get a loan?
             + Answer: Use our simple mortgage calculators to see how much
               mortgage you could pay - that's a good start. If the amount
               you can afford is significantly less than the cost of homes
               that interest you, then you might want to wait awhile longer.
               But before you give up, why don't you contact a real estate
               broker or a HUD-funded housing counseling agency? They will
               help you evaluate your loan potential. A broker will know what
               kinds of mortgages the lenders are offering and can help you
               choose a lender with a program that might be right for you.
               Another good idea is to get pre-qualified for a loan. That
               means you go to a lender and apply for a mortgage before you
               actually start looking for a home. Then you'll know exactly
               how much you can afford to spend, and it will speed the
               process once you do find the home of your dreams.
       8. How do I find a lender?
             + Answer: You can finance a home with a loan from a bank, a
               savings and loan, a credit union, a private mortgage company,
               or various state government lenders. Shopping for a loan is
               like shopping for any other large purchase: you can save money
               if you take some time to look around for the best prices.
               Different lenders can offer quite different interest rates and
               loan fees; and as you know, a lower interest rate can make a
               big difference in how much home you can afford. Talk with
               several lenders before you decide. Most lenders need 3-6 weeks
               for the whole loan approval process. Your real estate broker
               will be familiar with lenders in the area and what they're
               offering. Or you can look in your local newspaper's real
               estate section - most papers list interest rates being offered
               by local lenders. You can find FHA-approved lenders in the
               Yellow Pages of your phone book. HUD does not make loans
               directly - you must use a HUD-approved lender if you're
               interested in an FHA loan.
       9. In addition to the mortgage payment, what other costs do I need to
          consider?
             + Answer: Well, of course you'll have your monthly utilities. If
               your utilities have been covered in your rent, this may be new
               for you. Your real estate broker will be able to help you get
               information from the seller on how much utilities normally
               cost. In addition, you might have homeowner association or
               condo association dues. You'll definitely have property taxes,
               and you also may have city or county taxes. Taxes normally are
               rolled into your mortgage payment. Again, your broker will be
               able to help you anticipate these costs.
      10. So what will my mortgage cover?
             + Answer: Most loans have 4 parts: principal: the repayment of
               the amount you actually borrowed; interest: payment to the
               lender for the money you've borrowed; homeowners insurance: a
               monthly amount to insure the property against loss from fire,
               smoke, theft, and other hazards required by most lenders; and
               property taxes: the annual city/county taxes assessed on your
               property, divided by the number of mortgage payments you make
               in a year. Most loans are for 30 years, although 15 year loans
               are available, too. During the life of the loan, you'll pay
               far more in interest than you will in principal - sometimes
               two or three times more! Because of the way loans are
               structured, in the first years you'll be paying mostly
               interest in your monthly payments. In the final years, you'll
               be paying mostly principal.
      11. What do I need to take with me when I apply for a mortgage?
             + Answer: Good question! If you have everything with you when
               you visit your lender, you'll save a good deal of time. You
               should have: 1) social security numbers for both your and your
               spouse, if both of you are applying for the loan; 2) copies of
               your checking and savings account statements for the past 6
               months; 3) evidence of any other assets like bonds or stocks;
               4) a recent paycheck stub detailing your earnings; 5) a list
               of all credit card accounts and the approximate monthly
               amounts owed on each; 6) a list of account numbers and
               balances due on outstanding loans, such as car loans; 7)
               copies of your last 2 years' income tax statements; and 8) the
               name and address of someone who can verify your employment.
               Depending on your lender, you may be asked for other
               information.
      12. I know there are lots of types of mortgages - how do I know which
          one is best for me?
             + Answer: You're right - there are many types of mortgages, and
               the more you know about them before you start, the better.
               Most people use a fixed-rate mortgage. In a fixed rate
               mortgage, your interest rate stays the same for the term of
               the mortgage, which normally is 30 years. The advantage of a
               fixed-rate mortgage is that you always know exactly how much
               your mortgage payment will be, and you can plan for it.
               Another kind of mortgage is an Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM).
               With this kind of mortgage, your interest rate and monthly
               payments usually start lower than a fixed rate mortgage. But
               your rate and payment can change either up or down, as often
               as once or twice a year. The adjustment is tied to a financial
               index, such as the U.S. Treasury Securities index. The
               advantage of an ARM is that you may be able to afford a more
               expensive home because your initial interest rate will be
               lower. There are several government mortgage programs that
               might interest you, too. Most people have heard of FHA
               mortgages. FHA doesn't actually make loans. Instead, it
               insures loans so that if buyers default for some reason, the
               lenders will get their money. This encourages lenders to give
               mortgages to people who might not otherwise qualify for a
               loan. Talk to your real estate broker about the various kinds
               of loans, before you begin shopping for a mortgage.
      13. When I find the home I want, how much should I offer?
             + Answer: Again, your real estate broker can help you here. But
               there are several things you should consider: 1) is the asking
               price in line with prices of similar homes in the area? 2) Is
               the home in good condition or will you have to spend a
               substantial amount of money making it the way you want it? You
               probably want to get a professional home inspection before you
               make your offer. Your real estate broker can help you arrange
               one. 3) How long has the home been on the market? If it's been
               for sale for awhile, the seller may be more eager to accept a
               lower offer. 4) How much mortgage will be required? Make sure
               you really can afford whatever offer you make. 5) How much do
               you really want the home? The closer you are to the asking
               price, the more likely your offer will be accepted. In some
               cases, you may even want to offer more than the asking price,
               if you know you are competing with others for the house.
      14. What if my offer is rejected?
             + Answer: They often are! But don't let that stop you. Now you
               begin negotiating. Your broker will help you. You may have to
               offer more money, but you may ask the seller to cover some or
               all of your closing costs or to make repairs that wouldn't
               normally be expected. Often, negotiations on a price go back
               and forth several times before a deal is made. Just remember -
               don't get so caught up in negotiations that you lose sight of
               what you really want and can afford!
      15. So what will happen at closing?
             + Answer: Basically, you'll sit at a table with your broker, the
               broker for the seller, probably the seller, and a closing
               agent. The closing agent will have a stack of papers for you
               and the seller to sign. While he or she will give you a basic
               explanation of each paper, you may want to take the time to
               read each one and/or consult with your agent to make sure you
               know exactly what you're signing. After all, this is a large
               amount of money you're committing to pay for a lot of years!
               Before you go to closing, your lender is required to give you
               a booklet explaining the closing costs, a "good faith
               estimate" of how much cash you'll have to supply at closing,
               and a list of documents you'll need at closing. If you don't
               get those items, be sure to call your lender BEFORE you go to
               closing. Be sure to read our booklet on settlement costs . It
               will help you understand your rights in the process. Don't
               hesitate to ask questions.


   Content updated January 29, 2002   Follow this link to  Back to top
   ----------
   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development
   451 7th Street S.W., Washington, DC 20410
   Telephone: (202) 708-1112   TTY: (202) 708-1455 Home
   | Privacy Statement
