http://enduse.lbl.gov/SharedData/IT/LBNLnetwork.doc

   [This was fast-saved 7 times. Some information is lost] To: Jon Koomey
   From: Bruce Nordman Re: Electricity Requirements for LBNL's Networking
   Hardware Date: December 7, 1999 This memo summarizes a quick inquiry
   into the energy use of the equipment making up LBNL's computer network
   infrastructure (``LBLnet''). This estimate does not include computers
   attached to the network other than a few whose only function is to
   provide network services. It also does not address the net effect on
   space conditioning, though that is likely modest with LBNL's facilities
   and climate. Data Sources The network structure and equipment
   inventories are derived from an interview with Ted Sopher and Ken Berg
   of the LBLnet Services Group in November, 1999 and a detailed schematic
   drawing of the network that they provided. Power data are primarily
   typical energy use from the manufacturer along with nameplate power
   rating data for a few devices. The entire system is quite complex, but
   most of the complexity doesn't affect energy use. LBLnet is always
   evolving, so this estimate is necessarily a snapshot. The lab is highly
   networked, including several computer-intensive research applications
   (e.g. the ALS and NERSC) so probably has a higher networking power
   consumption per employee than most organizations. The diversity of lab
   buildings and operations also likely increases the intensity of network
   hardware in use. The primary elements of LBLnet are Switches, Routers,
   Transceivers/Repeaters, Network Servers, and other equipment. Network
   devices (computers, printers, etc.) in a building are all connected to
   a Subnet Switch. The switch transfers packets of data among the local
   devices, and exchanges packets with the rest of the world via a
   connection to the lab network's core. The core connections are mostly
   fiber optic cables with a transceiver at each end to translate between
   electrical (copper wire) and light (fiber optic) signals. In the core,
   subnets are connected to one of five routers that can route packets to
   the proper subnet within the lab or to the outside world. A number of
   computers are within the core area that provide network services such
   as security or `name serving'. I count these as part of the network
   infrastructure as they serve no purpose other than to support the
   network. Machines such as web servers provide information so are not
   part of the network. Attention must be made to not double-count network
   support computers. Subnet Switches ive research applications (necessary
   for the functioning-count network support computer energy Power Data
   With a 5505 chassis, the rating is 9A for a percentage of 29%.
   December81999 2 ,figures the use of ssignificantly factor is the
   contrast between a maximallyboxthe below5,055 W person Cisco SCisco S
   of , is used bymytotal energy use (this included PCs, monitors,
   printers, copiers, and fax machines)resulting 's network
   designDecember819994 computerDecember819994 Pat Ross Pat Ross
