http://cs-www.ncsl.nist.gov/krdp/

                               [nisthead.gif]
          [globe_spin.gif] Computer Security Resource Clearinghouse

                  Key Recovery Demonstration Project
     Formerly known as the Emergency Access Demonstration Project

                                Publications
     Certificate Practice Statement
   Pilot Root CA Policy



   CA Registration
   Pilot Registration Form
   (In the process of developing page--
   check again soon)


   Contact
   [mail.gif] krdp@nist.gov
     This project was developed to support emergency access to encrypted
   data
   where required to support federal agencies needs. The most promising
   mechanisms for such access require a security management
   infrastructure.
   Today, the project is focused on the development of a public key
   infratructure (PKI) for the  Federal government.  Such an
   infrastructure
   can support emergency access to encrypted data for those agencies that
   require it, but does not impose additional requirements on agencies
   that
   do not require it.

   Development of a unified PKI for the federal government presents a
   number
   of technical challenges. While these projects do not directly address
   key
   recovery, a security management infrastructure is necessary.  NIST is
   supporting the development of a federal PKI by participating in the
   Federal Bridge CA project, continuing the development of the X.509 path
   validation algorithm, and identifying key PKI-enabled applications
   (e.g.,
   S/MIME) for federal use.

   While this project has focused on possible methods for accomplishing
   key recovery in a PKI environment, it should be noted that a PKI
   environment
   need not support key recovery.  In addition, a PKI is not srtictly
   necessary to accomplish key recovery.  However, leveraging a
   PKI is perhaps the most promising environment.  PKI readily distinguish
   between signature keys, where key recovery does not apply, and key
   management
   keys.  It may be appropriate to apply key recovery to key managment
   keys
   (depending upon the criticality of the encrypted data.)

   Background

   In May 1996, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released a
   white
   paper titled "Enabling Privacy, Commerce, Security, and Public Safety
   in the
   Global Information Infrastructure". This paper stated that "government
   and
   industry  must work together to create a security management
   infrastructure
   and attendant products  that incorporate robust cryptography without
   undermining national security and public safety".  In support of this
   goal,
   the Key Recovery Demonstration Project (KRDP) was initiated in order
   to
   demonstrate the practicability of the recovery of keys that support
   data encryption
   in Federal  government applications. A pilot program was created with
   several
   agencies to implement, test and evaluate different key recovery
   technologies. A
   brief description of the pilot agency applications is found in the KRDP
   Project Summary.

   The National Institute Of Standards and Technology (NIST) issued a
   Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) soliciting products and services to
   support
   this project. Three possible methods of key recovery are depicted in
   Key Recovery Examples. The KRDP Implementation Evaluation Criteria
   identify the functional and security concerns related to the Federal
   governments's
   need to have emergency access to encrypted data.



   [profline.GIF] [up.GIF] Top of Page  [up.GIF] CSRC Home Page  [up.GIF]
          NIST's Homepage  [up.GIF] NIST Computer Security Division
       Please send comments or suggestions to webmaster-csrc@nist.gov.
                      Last Modified: February 23, 2000.

        NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Departments Technology
                               Administration
