http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2002/01/donotcall.htm

   opamasthead.gif (13026 bytes)


   For Release: January 22, 2002

   FTC Proposes National "Do Not Call" Registry

   Commission Seeks Comment on Registry and Other Proposed Changes to the
   Telemarketing Sales Rule

   The Federal Trade Commission today announced a proposal to create a
   centralized national "Do Not Call" registry. The registry would enable
   consumers to eliminate most telemarketing calls simply by making one
   call to the FTC. The proposal is a key component of the privacy
   initiative that FTC Chairman Timothy J. Muris announced in early
   October. The proposed national "Do Not Call" registry is one element of
   the Commission's proposal to modify the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR),
   which protects consumers from unwanted and late-night telemarketing
   calls and prohibits deceptive sales calls. The proposed amendments to
   the TSR are designed to enhance the Rule's ability to prevent deceptive
   telemarketing practices and to enable consumers to exert greater
   control over when and whether to receive telemarketing calls in their
   homes.

   "Under the FTC's proposal, it would be illegal for telemarketers to
   call consumers who place their phone number on the national registry,"
   said Howard Beales, Director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer
   Protection. "Today's action is the first step. But, consumers need to
   understand that this is a proposal. If adopted, it will be a while
   before the national 'Do Not Call' registry can become a reality." A
   notice of proposed rulemaking to be published shortly in the Federal
   Register will seek public comment on this change and a range of other
   proposed amendments to the TSR.

   The Commission is also proposing changes to the TSR mandated by the
   recently enacted USA PATRIOT Act. Prompted by the events of September
   11, this legislation, among other things, directs the Commission to
   expand the TSR to cover calls made to solicit charitable contributions.
   (Currently the TSR covers only calls made to sell goods and services.)
   By law, non-profit charitable organizations are exempt from the FTC's
   jurisdiction, and the USA

   PATRIOT Act does not change that. However, the USA PATRIOT Act does
   enable the FTC to act against for-profit companies that engage in
   fraudulent, deceptive, or abusive practices when they solicit
   charitable contributions on behalf of charities or purported charities.

   The TSR (16 CFR Part 310) prohibits specific deceptive and abusive
   telemarketing acts or practices; requires telemarketers to make
   specific disclosures of material information; prohibits
   misrepresentations; limits the hours that telemarketers may call
   consumers; prohibits calls to a consumer who has asked not to be called
   again; and sets payment restrictions for the sale of certain goods and
   services. The Act that authorizes the FTC Rule also authorizes both the
   FTC and state attorneys general to enforce the TSR in federal court.
   The Rule, which marked its fifth anniversary this past March, has
   resulted in judgments amounting to more than $152 million in consumer
   redress and $500,000 in civil penalties.

   The Commission also announced it will hold a public forum on June 5-7,
   2002 to allow FTC staff and interested parties to explore and discuss
   issues raised during the comment period for the amended TSR.

   Proposed Amendments

   The highlights of the FTC's proposed amendments are provided below. A
   detailed summary of these proposals can be found in the notice of
   proposed rulemaking, which will be published in the Federal Register
   and is available at www.ftc.gov.

   Through the proposed rulemaking, the Commission is seeking to:
     * Supplement the current company-specific "Do Not Call" provision
       with an additional provision that will enable a consumer to stop
       calls from all companies within the FTC's jurisdiction by
       registering with a central "do-not-call" list maintained by the
       FTC;
     * Permit a consumer who registers with the central "Do Not Call" list
       to receive telemarketing sales calls from an individual company or
       charitable organization to which the consumer has provided his or
       her express verifiable authorization to make telemarketing calls to
       the consumer;
     * Modify § 310.3(a)(3) to require express verifiable authorization
       for all transactions in which the payment method lacks dispute
       resolution protection or protection against unauthorized charges
       similar or comparable to those available under the Fair Credit
       Billing Act and the Truth in Lending Act;
     * Delete § 310.3(a)(3)(iii), the provision allowing a telemarketer to
       obtain express verifiable authorization by confirming the
       transaction in writing prior to submitting the customer's billing
       information for payment;
     * Require, in the sale of credit card protection, the disclosure of
       the legal limits on a cardholder's liability for unauthorized
       charges;
     * Prohibit misrepresenting that a consumer needs offered goods or
       services in order to receive protections he or she already has
       under 15 U.S.C. § 1643 (limiting a cardholder's liability for
       unauthorized charges on a credit card account);
     * Mandate, explicitly, that all required disclosures in § 310.3(a)(1)
       and § 310.4(d) be made truthfully;
     * Expand upon the current prize promotion disclosures to include a
       statement that any purchase or payment will not increase a
       consumer's chances of winning;
     * Prohibit the practices of receiving any consumer's billing
       information from any third party for use in telemarketing, or
       disclosing any consumer's billing information to any third party
       for use in telemarketing;
     * Prohibit additional practices: blocking or otherwise subverting the
       transmission of the name and/or telephone number of the calling
       party for caller identification service purposes; and denying or
       interfering in any way with a consumer's right to be placed on a
       "Do Not Call" list;
     * Clarify that the use of predictive dialers resulting in "dead air"
       violates the Rule;
     * Narrow certain of the Rule's exemptions;
     * Clarify that facsimile transmissions, electronic mail, and other
       similar methods of delivery are direct mail for purposes of the
       direct mail exemption; and
     * Make all changes necessary to implement the USA PATRIOT Act
       amendments to the Telemarketing Act, specifically, expanding the
       TSR to cover the solicitation of charitable contributions by
       for-profit telemarketers.

   Opportunity for Public Comment

   Six paper copies of each written comment regarding the proposed
   amendments should be sent by March 29, 2002 to: FTC, Office of the
   Secretary, Room 159, 600 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.
   20580. All comments should also be submitted, if possible,
   electronically on computer disk, with a label stating the name of the
   commenter and the name and version of the word processing program used
   to create the document. In addition, the Commission will accept
   comments that are submitted to the following e-mail address:
   tsr@ftc.gov, if the information is organized in sequentially numbered
   paragraphs. All written comments and electronic submissions should be
   identified as "Telemarketing Rulemaking - Comment. FTC File No.
   R411001." Individual members of the public filing comments need not
   submit multiple copies or comments in electronic form.

   The Public Forum

   The public forum announced in the Federal Register notice will be held
   at FTC Headquarters after the close of the public comment period.
   Parties interested in attending the forum should submit their request
   in writing to: Carole Danielson, FTC Bureau of Consumer Protection,
   Division of Marketing Practices, 600 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.,
   Washington, D.C. 20580.

   For More Information

   For additional information on the TSR, the notice of proposed
   rulemaking, or the upcoming public forum, contact: Catherine
   Harrington-McBride, 202-326-2452 (e-mail: cmcbride@ftc.gov); Karen
   Leonard, 202-326-3597 (e-mail: kleonard@ftc.gov); or Carole Danielson,
   202-326-3115 (e-mail: cdanielson@ftc.gov).

   The Commission vote to approve publication of the Federal Register
   notice was 5-0.

   Commissioner Orson Swindle issued a concurring statement in which he
   stated his wholehearted support for the changes to the TSR, noting that
   the new proposals appear to strike a balance between protecting
   consumers without unduly restricting legitimate telemarketing
   practices. The Commissioner's statement emphasized two points regarding
   the Telemarketing Act and the TSR. First, he pointed out that the
   Commission's regulatory scheme would be more effective and more
   equitable if it covered the "entire spectrum of entities engaged in
   telemarketing," emphasizing that "the Commission lacks jurisdiction, in
   whole or in part, over the calls of entities such as banks, telephone
   companies, airlines, insurance companies, credit unions, charities,
   political campaigns, and political fund raisers."

   Second, Commissioner Swindle raised concerns regarding the Commission's
   method of determining whether certain practices are "abusive" under the
   Telemarketing Act. For some practices, the Commission proposes to
   determine that they are abusive for the purposes of the Telemarketing
   Act because they are "unfair" for purposes of Section 5 of the FTC Act.
   Commissioner Swindle has "reservations about using unfairness
   principles under Section 5 to determine what is abusive under the
   Telemarketing Act." Commissioner Swindle's statement requests public
   comment regarding this issue as well as comments regarding "whether the
   transfer of pre-acquired account information meets the standards for
   unfairness under Section 5 of the FTC Act."
   thin vertical line
     __________________________________________________________________

   Copies of the Federal Register notice mentioned in this release are
   available from the FTC's Web site at http://www.ftc.gov and also from
   the FTC's Consumer Response Center, Room 130, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue,
   N.W., Washington, D.C. 20580. The FTC works for the consumer to prevent
   fraudulent, deceptive and unfair business practices in the marketplace
   and to provide information to help consumers spot, stop and avoid them.
   To file a complaint, or to get free information on any of 150 consumer
   topics, call toll-free, 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357), or use the
   complaint form at http://www.ftc.gov. The FTC enters Internet,
   telemarketing, identity theft and other fraud-related complaints into
   Consumer Sentinel, a secure, online database available to hundreds of
   civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and abroad.

   MEDIA CONTACT:
          Mitchell J. Katz
          Office of Public Affairs
          202-326-2161


   STAFF CONTACT:
          Catherine Harrington-McBride
          Bureau of Consumer Protection
          202-326-2452

   (FTC File No. R411001)

   (http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2002/01/donotcall.htm)
   Related Documents

   Proposed National "Do Not Call" Registry Web Site

   The FTC's Proposal to Create a National "Do Not Call" Registry

   Q&A: FTC's Proposed Changes to the Telemarketing Sales Rule

   16 C.F.R. Part 310
   Telemarketing Sales Rule: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to Amend the
   Rule; Request for Public Comment on the Proposed Changes; and
   Invitation to Participate In Public Forum.


                                Text of Federal Register Notice [PDF 347K]

   Concurring Statement of Commissioner Swindle

   Public Comments

                             Get Acrobat Reader
