http://www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov/public/mls/aspire/aspire.html

         Autonomous Small Planet In situ Reaction to Events (ASPIRE)

Science Objectives

   The particular mission demonstrated in ASPIRE is a Close-Proximity
   Rendezvous of a Low-Activity Comet. Comets are the solar system objects
   thought to contain materials that have undergone the least processing
   since the formation of the solar system, so our current lack of
   detailed information about their compositions and formative processes
   are key impediments to understanding how the solar system formed. We
   would like to visit a comet to answer several important questions about
   them.


   Compositional questions call for direct sampling of a comet's nucleus,
   with either onboard analysis or sample return to Earth for analysis in
   ground-based laboratories. Structural questions are addressed by
   imaging, gravity field measurement, and possibly radar sounding or deep
   drilling. Evolutionary processes can be studied via imaging of events
   that are evidence of those processes, or sampling (by direct sample
   collection or nearby remote sensing) of solid, gaseous, or ionic
   products of the processes.

   Fresh, fully active comets have the highest science priority for these
   investigations. Of all comets, fresh comets have been least processed
   by the sun, so their constituents are materials that are the least
   altered since the birth of the solar system. Samples from the deep
   interior of such a comet would have tremendous scientific value,
   preserving the ice crystal morphology, dust grain structure, and
   compositional record from the time of the comet's formation.
   Unfortunately, fresh comets present an extreme hazard to spacecraft in
   their vicinity, especially as they near the sun and all the sublimation
   processes reach full activity. A spacecraft that attempts to maneuver
   to within a few km of an active nucleus finds itself immersed in a
   Maelstrom of rushing gas and high-speed particles.

   An alternative is to to achieve significant progress in our
   understanding of comets and their formation by targeting a less active
   comet and collecting samples of dust, mantle material, and possibly
   some processed ices, and by monitoring evolutionary processes such as
   jet formation, mantle ejection or collapse, surface fracturing, and
   particle ejection. Such evolutionary processes are very common for
   comets and where observed in the past. All of them have one important
   characteristic: they expose fresh materials from inside of the nucleus.

   Of particular importance is fracturing event. It is likely to look like
   "comet quake", followed by the outrash of gases, followed by the comet
   break up. Detecting this event early will present a number of
   spectacular opportunities. First of all, the spacecraft located at more
   then 1 km away from the comet can track the fragments in order to avoid
   collisions. The other opportunities are of even greater importance due
   to numerous scientific benefits: by measuring the composition of gases
   evolved from freshly exposed areas of both the fragment and the main
   nucleus, we can learn about the processes involved in the comet's
   origin; and by measuring the profile of recession velocity of the
   fragment vs. distance from the nucleus, we can learn much about the
   mechanism of ejection.

Autonomy Objectives

   The efforts to study comet events can be fruitless if done through
   communications to Earth. The jet formation event, the mental collapse
   event, the surface fracturing event, and the particle ejection event
   are likely to be a short-term events. The opportunity to replan,
   refocus, and study such events in detail will be missed entirely if
   downlink, uplink and ground-based processing are required. The
   capability to handle comet events in-situ via fully autonomous
   processing is necessary to make investigations of short-term events
   possible. Therefore, the objective of the ASPIRE mission is to develop
   and demonstrate an autonomous science processing technology which
   enables in-situ detection, capture and analysis of a scientifically
   interesting short-term comet events. This technology should be
   integrated with autonomous on-board capability to replan science
   observations from the nominal mission. Such capability consists of
   three parts: close proximity navigation planning and execution; onboard
   pointing and propulsive planning and execution; onboard mission
   planning and sequencing. Once the scientific event of interest is
   detected, these capabilities allow replanning, repointing and close
   observation of the event.


   Our goals are:
     * To develop a suitable mission and science observation scenario.
     * To build a S/W model of the science processing unit capable of
       detecting short-term comet events.
     * To integrate autonomous science processing unit with other
       autonomous spacecraft components, and to install integrated version
       in Flight System Testbed.

Mission Scenario

   The target for ASPIRE, Comet duToit-Hartley, is in a near-ecliptic
   orbit, with a perihelion of 1.23 a.u. and aphelion just beyond
   Jupiter's orbit. Its five-year period brings it to a perihelion
   February 15, 2003, for which this mission was designed. The nearly
   2.5-year cruise culminates with the spacecraft approaching from the
   sunward side, and entering orbit through a series of approach maneuvers
   that nullify the nearly 3.2km/s relative velocity at arrival.

   The main goal of the mission is to demonstrate quick reaction to
   scientific event, therefore the main mission phases constitute the
   quick reaction mode. This mode consists of three states: Parking,
   Orbiting, and Hovering. The Parking state is when the spacecraft is in
   a parking orbit around the comet. The Orbiting state is when the
   spacecraft flies over a sequence of orbits to capture a set of targets.
   The Hovering state is when the spacecraft flies closely over the comet
   surface to investigate detected targets. The spacecraft is initially in
   the Parking state. In this state, the spacecraft can immediately
   execute next command and transfer to any other state. But in Orbiting
   or Hovering state, the spacecraft has to finish executing the current
   command before it can transfer to another state. The exception is an
   event of comet break up, it is a dangerous event which causes immediate
   escape (Escape state) of the spacecraft and the end of the mission.
   This exception is handled by the escape mode.

   The picture below shows the spacecraft maneuvering in sequence of
   orbits around comet. The trajectory is plotted in red and yellow line,
   and coordinate systems for spacecraft and comet are plotted in red
   yellow and blue lines.
   [nav3.gif1]

   There are two science cameras on-board the spacecraft. The first one is
   wide-field of view camera, and the second is narrow field-of view
   camera. The first camera is used for the detection of scientifically
   interesting events. Once such event is detected the second camera is
   commanded to point at the location of an interesting event for close
   investigation. The interesting events which are candidates for
   detection are: jet formation, mental collapse, surface fracturing,
   particle ejection and comet break-up.

Demo Scenario

   The ASPIRE demo starts with the spacecraft being parked in an orbit
   around comet 20 km away. At this point some images of the comet surface
   have been taken and pre-stored in science data-base. Then the surface
   of the comet cracks in two places resulting in surface fracturing event
   (sub-pixel level). The science module detects this not-visible to an
   eye event. Two pictures below display the surface fracturing event and
   the changes detected by the Science unit. The first picture is the
   comet surface before fracturing, the second picture is the comet
   surface after fracturing. The change is not visible by an eye, but the
   science unit successfully detects an event, indicated by red boxes in
   the second picture.
   [comet011.gif1]
   [twoRedBox.gif1]
   Following the science unit detection of an event the narrow field of
   view camera is pointed to investigate the surface movement processes in
   the crack region. The image seen by the narrow field of view camera is
   displayed below.
   [NFOV.gif1]
   The spacecraft receives the coordinates of the crack event from the
   science module and proceeds with the close fly-by of the area of
   interest. No more changes happen during close observation and the
   spacecraft gets back to it's previous orbit. Following this, two
   particles separate from the comet's body and are flying away (fragment
   ejection event). The science module detects this event early, providing
   enough time for replanning and repointing the narrow field of view
   camera. The ejected pieces are detected and observed during their
   departure from the screen. Close fly by maneuver follows to investigate
   the area from which the particles were separated. This maneuver is
   interrupted by complete comet break up, which causes an immediate
   escape of the spacecraft.

The Science Module

   One of the most important ASPIRE modules is the science processing
   module which is capable of detecting events of scientific interest. For
   the given mission these events are the changes in the appearance of the
   comet surface, detected by comparing two images. These changes can be
   very small (sub-pixel level), or larger (as specified by algorithm
   parameter). Also, these changes can be short-term, as detected by
   comparing consecutive images, or long term as detected by comparing the
   current image with the image stored in data-base.

   The Science Module consists of 7 conceptual parts. First the mode
   handler receives the current mode of the process. The mode can be
   Initialize, which resets all parameters and frees all storage space; or
   the mode can be Store Image, which stores the current image in the
   internal data base without processing it; or the mode can be Compare
   Images, which compares two images in order to detect a change, and then
   stores these images in internal database. The viewing angles
   calculation part converts position of the spacecraft and tilt of the
   camera, both given in rectangular coordinates to three angles
   (conversion from six parameters to three parameters). These angles are
   used for direct accessing of internal data-base, containing pre-stored
   images. Direct accessing is necessary during New Image Storing as well
   as for image location. New Image Storing stores current image in the
   data base using direct accessing techniques if space still remains in
   the data base, or if space is not available it replaces the oldest
   image with the newly received one. The heart of the Science Processing
   unit is a state of the art Change Detection algorithm (QuakeFinder).
   This algorithm detects the changes by dividing the image into small
   tiles and then using correlation and interpolation techniques to detect
   the displacement of each tile (if such exist). The detected
   displacements can be of sub-pixel magnitude and not-visible to the eye,
   or they can be larger as specified by the algorithm parameters.
   Associated with displacement of each tile is the confidence measure.
   The thresholding part sets the threshold to ignore the displacements
   with weak confidence measures, and give equal considerations for
   displacements of high confidence. Then the Clustering part clusters
   displacements of similar magnitude and direction into the regions. The
   motion and other attributes of these regions are examined to classify
   (Classification part) the change into jet formation, mental collapse,
   surface fracturing, fragment ejection, and comet break-up. And the
   detected change, it's position, size, direction of motion and type
   (type is not implemented yet) are reported to the planning and
   scheduling module.

Current Status

   Currently, the first version of the ASPIRE demo is implemented and
   installed in Flight System Testbed. The Science module is integrated
   with Planning and Scheduling, Navigation, Tracking and Comet Modeling
   modules. The functioning of all the modules is fully autonomous. The
   Demo can run according to predetermined script, or in Interactive Mode,
   where events are inserted through user interface. The events of
   Interactive mode should be in the bounds of designed mission, and in
   accordance with spacecraft geometry. At this point interactive mode
   needs assistance of the export, but the plan is to make it fully robust
   and export-independent. The classification part of the science module
   is not integrated yet. Therefore, only the coordinates, direction, and
   magnitude of change are reported so far. The ASPIRE demo proves the
   concept that integrated autonomous spacecraft is feasible, and that
   automatic in-situ detection of scientific events and a quick reaction
   to such events can enable new scientific missions (which were not
   possible before) to be achieved by lighter and cheaper spacecraft.

People representing Science Processing in ASPIRE

   Paul Stolorz

   Victoria Gor

ASPIRE team members whose documents were used in production of this WEB page.

   Thomas Spilker (Science Objectives)

   Tooraj Kia (Autonomy Objectives)

   Daniel Scheeres (Mission Scenario)

   Jimmy Shih (Mission Scenario, Demo Scenario)

   William Lincoln (Demo Scenario, Comet Images)

   [Projects Page] [Onboard Science Data Analysis Task Page]
