http://anatline.nlm.nih.gov/GenInfo/MainPage.html

   ANATLINE GENERAL INFORMATION

                                  Introduction

   AnatLine is a prototype system consisting of an anatomical image
   database and an online browser. This prototype was developed by the
   Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications at the
   National Library of Medicine to provide a client/server Internet
   interface to access gross anatomy images of the human body. During its
   beta phase, AnatLine stores a subset of the Visible Human Data Set.
   This version of AnatLine consists of image records of thoracic cross
   sectional planes, thoracic voxel structures, and rendered bitmap
   images. Access to the Anatomical Database during its beta test phase
   requires registration with the Lister Hill National Center for
   Biomedical Communications. AnatLine's Anatomical Browser provides
   online viewing of low resolution surface rendered images of the human
   thoracic region.

                              Anatomical Database

   AnatLine's database is a Java based object-oriented database which uses
   an eXcelon ObjectStore persistent engine. AnatLine data structure is
   based on anatomical and spatial relationships of gross anatomy
   components and physiological systems. The underlying structure for
   these relationships is the Database UMLS Terms Authority.

   Users query and retrieve image records via the Anatomical Database.
   Available image records consist of anatomical data and gross anatomy
   images. Image records are stored in NLM's prototype .vhi format and its
   internal data and bitmaps may be extracted or displayed using AnatLine
   support software.

                                     Images

   AnatLine, in its prototype phase, stores images processed from
   anatomical structures of the Visible Human male thorax. These images
   were scanned from the 70mm film cross section data set and digitized in
   a 4096x2700 pixel frame size. This digitized collection of cross
   section images was aligned and segmented into 434 thoracic structures
   by Engineering Animation Inc.

   Image data retrieved from the database are returned as image records.
   Each image record contains bitmaps, image data, and anatomical data.
   Image records are enclosed within a prototype .vhi image format. This
   format contains a file specifier and internal data encoded to be
   machine readable by the user's client system. Presently four image file
   format types available; Cross Section files, Volume of Interest (VOI),
   Segmented Byte Masks, and Rendered Images. Image record data may be
   displayed using NLM's VHDisplay software, or image data may be
   extracted using NLM's VHParser.

   AnatLine queries of stored anatomical structures return data which
   specify the image type and file size for available image records. Cross
   section records are stored with color bitmaps, and graphical overlay
   labels. Two types of voxel volumes are stored. First are Volume of
   Interest (VOI) records, which are full color z-plane stacks of the
   structures region of interest (ROI), and z-plane stacks of segmented
   masks. VOI files are limited in size to 1GB. Second are Segmented Byte
   masks, which contain z-plane stacks of the segmented masks without the
   color ROI. Byte mask files contain compressed images, therefore the
   file size increases when uncompressed. Rendered Images are 2D
   representations of anatomical 3D structures.

Query Functions

   The Web interface provides a query engine with retrieval access to
   high-resolution anatomical images that range in size from 100KB for
   browser viewable rended images, to 1GB for anatomical structures in
   voxel file format. The query and retrieval client/server system is
   composed of applet GUIs, servlets, and RMI application modules which
   communicate with each other to allow users to query for specific
   anatomical structures, and retrieve image data as well as associated
   anatomical images.

   Pull-down menus allow the user to select the gender and media type of
   the image. For the purposes of this prototype, only digital color
   images relating to the male specimen thorax are available.

   A spell-assist GUI inteface helps users to formulate database queries.
   The spell asssist window contains a scrollable lexicon of unique human
   anatomical keywords. Users may enter the anatomical name of the query
   into the text field above the list, or may scroll the spell assist
   window and select from among the listed entries. As the user types each
   query character, the spell assist window scrolls to a recognized
   anatomical term, thus permitting the user to select the highlighted
   term. If searching for a term that contains two or more words, the
   spell assist window will repeat the scroll and selection process for
   each entry. Use of the spell assist word selection is optional, its
   purpose is to assist with terminology spelling. The spell assist will
   not restrict the user's entry, nor does it display a table of known
   images within the database.

   Upon typing or selecting the desired query term (pressing the
   RETURN-key or selecting "Search") the system provides a listing of all
   UMLS anatomical terms which contain the entry. The user may select a
   more accurate term which represents the desired query and query the
   database.

   Queries may be unreconized by AnatLine for several reasons: the entry
   may be mispelled or the entry may not exist as a preferred UMLS term.
   If an entire term is unrecognized by AnatLine, an error message box
   displays instructing the user to retype the query or select from the
   recognized terms from the spell assist.

   If there is a partial match of the queried term, an Extended Search
   message box will display prompting the user to query on a partial match
   or cancel the query. Extended Searches map several terminology
   databases to AnatLine recognized terms. The user may then opt to query
   for the returned terms.

Query Results

   Successful queries return results containing embedded hyperlinks to
   retrievable image types, and links related to anatomical objects for
   the queried structure (i.e. anatomical parent, substructures,
   physiological system and body region).

                                Query Results

   Specimen No. Age Weight Height AV Type No. of Images Required Disk
   Storage History

                                      1
                              (Caucasian Male)

                                     38

                                     199

                                     71

                                DIGITAL COLOR

                                     225

                                   7.8 GB

                            Appendectomy (1976...

                       Specimen No. 1 - Caucasian Male

DIGITAL COLOR Images for the left lung :

       Click to download image(s)      No. of Files Required Disk Storage
   Volume of Interest                        1            928.2 MB
   Cross Section                            223            6.9 GB
   Segmented Byte Mask
   (Cross Section files are required.)       1            1018.0 KB

  Related Anatomical Data for the left lung :

  Body Region

     * thorax
     * thoracic cavity

  Substructures

     * left upper lobe of lung
     * left lower lobe of lung

Specimen No. 1 - Caucasian Male

   History Cause of Death
   Appendectomy (1976) Left Orchiectomy (1970) Number 14 tooth extracted
   (1993) Lethal injection

   To retrieve images, the user must select the Image Type within the
   Query Results table. The Image Retrieval Results table lists available
   image files for the structure and image type.

                           Image Retrieval Results

                                                    Required Browser Settings

                                                      Download multiple files

Click on a link below to download a single file:


            File Name           Image Type         File Size
         DRC10S001301.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001302.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001303.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001304.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001305.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001306.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB
         DRC10S001307.vhi

                                                      Cross Section

                                                     31.8 MB

Download Procedures

   Selected images may be downloaded individually as single files via HTTP
   or downloaded in batch-mode. Please note: To download .vhi image files,
   the user's browser must be configured to accept the .vhi file type.
   Browser configurations are provided on the FAQ page.

   Single File Download

   To download a single file, the user selects a file via the hyperlink
   within the File Name column of the Image Retrieval Results table. File
   download process begins, and the user must define the download path for
   local storage.

   Batch-mode Download (Netscape Object Signing)

   To download multiple files, the user may select the "download Multiple
   Files" option from the Image Retrieval Results table. This option
   writes files in batch-mode to the user's hard disk. The user has the
   option to select/deselect files for download. If no files are
   individually selected, all files will download.

   Downloading multiple files uses Netscapes Object Signing technology
   developed by Netscape and VeriSign, Inc. Users who choose not to accept
   the Netscape VeriSign certificate, or who are not using Netscape must
   download files using the Single File Download option. Use of Object
   Signing technology displays a security pop-up window requesting the
   user to grant or deny the program's request to read or modify the
   user's hard disk. Clicking the "Grant" button displays, in the browser,
   an applet that consists of a text entry field, a table and buttons. The
   text field contains the path to the user's home directory. The user can
   manually change the default path.
