http://secstate.wa.gov/news/news_release.asp?news_id=149

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

                                                          [USEMAP:buttons_1.gif]
   space
      space

   Bipartisanship, Local Government and Coalition Building Key To Tacking States
                   Tough Issues For Republican Elected Officials

      NEWS RELEASE
   Issued: January 15, 2002
   OLYMPIA After our first year, several things have become very clear.
   First, the best long-term solutions come when we work with everybody.
   Bipartisanship is a phrase that is increasingly given lip-service but
   when tackling the tough issues that face Washingtons natural resources
   and elections, or transportation and the budget, good ideas from all
   sides must be heard. We are both committed to working with everyone,
   and especially our detractors, to ensure we make good decisions that
   set the best course for the people of Washington.
   Next, with decades of combined experience in local government, it is
   clear to both of us working closely with counties, cities and other
   local governments is crucial. The Department of Natural Resources helps
   to provide funding for counties, school districts, universities and
   other local library and fire district. Elections are administered at
   the local level by County Auditors who know best the needs of and
   circumstances surrounding their local voters. You cannot take a
   one-size-fits-all approach to elections. For example, we have fought
   proposed national election reform that would have done away with
   vote-by-mail, an overwhelmingly popular system in the Northwest that
   works effectively in our state. Working cooperatively with local
   governments, the governments closest to the constituents, is
   imperative.
   Finally, building cooperative partnerships with the private sector and
   interest groups can help government do its job better. At DNR, we are
   partnering on studies of recreation, land transactions which make state
   land more productive and manageable and we have discussions with other
   foresters in order to provide improved environmental management. In the
   Secretary of States Office, we are advocating the creation of
   private-public partnerships for our oral history and archives programs
   to help the state of Washington through difficult financial times.
   As we tackle the problems we face in the upcoming years, these are
   three important values that we, as Republicans, keep in mind:
   bipartisanship, local government and cooperative partnerships.
   We will continue to use them to find the best, long-term solutions for
   the people we serve.

                                    -30-


   Top
      Back

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
