http://religiousfreedom.house.gov/rel-carm.htm

   home

       [space.gif]

                                                Reading Room


   The Text
   Fact Sheets
   Reading Room
   Q and A
   Press Releases
   Testimonies
   Legal Analysis
   Viewpoints
   Congressional
   Endorsing Groups
   Opinion Polls
   The Process
   Cosponsors
   Committee Action
   Supreme Court
   Other Links
   Comments
   [space.gif]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   June 3, 1998 Contact: Steven Jones
   (202)225-2132

                Istook Praises School Prayer Petition Effort

   Washington, D.C. - Tomorrow, the U.S. House will vote for the first
   time since 1971 on a constitutional amendment to restore voluntary
   school prayer and safeguard religious freedoms. Today, petitions with
   more than a million signatures in favor of such an amendment were
   delivered to the lawn of the U.S. Capitol.

   This is in addition to another million signatures delivered several
   months ago. The latest set of petitions were circulated by Christian
   singer and entertainer Carman as he toured the country.

   Congressman Ernest Istook, (R-OK), author of the Religious Freedom
   Amendment scheduled for Thursday’s vote, said the petitions reflect the
   will of the American people.

   "When the vote is called tomorrow, we’ll find out whether the House of
   Representatives responds to what the American people want," Istook
   said. "It’s incredible when you consider that only one man collected
   these signatures. This helps prove the huge importance of this effort
   to the American people.

   The singer said the more than one million signers of the petition are
   concerned about children facing skyrocketing problems such as violence
   and teen pregnancy.

   "These are people that want to see God put back into the classroom, and
   I’m here today to stand up for that which is right," Carman said. "I
   know on Thursday, the House casts a vote, and in that vote a decision
   is going to be made: children that are going to slay or children that
   are going to pray."

   Istook praised Carman for his efforts and dedication in the pursuit of
   religious freedom and restoring prayer.

   "These petitions prove once again that the public has never accepted
   the Supreme Court’s decisions, beginning over 35 years ago, restricting
   the public practice of prayer and religion. National polls conducted by
   Gallup, Harris, Newsweek, Time, the television networks, and many
   others for decades have shown clear, unwavering support for reversing
   the damage that has been done to our First Amendment."

   "Since that first ruling in 1962, as prayer has gone out of schools,
   guns, knives, drugs and gangs have come in. It’s time we put the
   emphasis on what we believe, and almost every American believes in
   God."
   Istook noted that several of the controversial Supreme Court decisions
   which the RFA will correct were decided by narrow 5-4 margins.

   "Our Constitution wisely gives us a way to fix it when the Supreme
   Court goes astray, and fails to correct its mistakes. That is what the
   Religious Freedom Amendment does."

                                     ###

                                 [seal.gif]
                                  [mb1.gif]
