http://www.odphp.osophs.dhhs.gov/odphpfact.pdf

   OFFICE OF DISEASE PREVENTION AND Office of Disease Prevention and
   Health Promotion HEALTH PROMOTION U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services, Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office of
   Public Health and Science, Office of the Secretary, 200 Independence
   Avenue SW., Room 738G, Washington, DC 20201, (202) 401-6295,
   http://odphp.osophs.dhhs.gov Since 1979, the Office of Disease
   Prevention and Health Promotion (ODPHP) has provided leadership in
   stimulating, coordinating, and unifying national disease prevention and
   health promotion strategies among Federal, State, and local agencies
   and major private and voluntary organizations. ODPHP is located within
   the Office of Public Health and Science, Office of the Secretary, U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Select ODPHP Activities
   Healthy People Initiative Healthy People is the prevention agenda for
   the Nation. The Healthy People Initiative guides efforts to promote
   health and prevent disease by establishing health improvement
   objectives with 10-year targets that are monitored over a decade. The
   Healthy People 2010 framework builds on initiatives pursued over the
   past two decades. A Surgeon General s Report, Healthy People, provided
   targets to reduce premature mortality in four life age groups in the
   1980s and was supported by objectives with 1990 endpoints. Healthy
   People 2000: National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention
   Objectives guides efforts toward health targets for the year 2000
   (visit http://odphp.osophs.dhhs.gov/pubs/hp2000). Like its
   predecessors, Healthy People 2010 was developed through a broad
   consultation process built upon the best scientific information and
   designed to measure progress over time. It will be an action agenda for
   the first decade of the 21st century. Healthy People 2010 is the United
   States contribution to the World Health Organization s Health for All
   strategy. For more information about Healthy People, visit
   http://www.health.gov/ healthypeople. healthfinder速 healthfinder速 is a
   Hammer Award-winning gateway Web site linking consumers and
   professionals to health and human services information from the Federal
   Government and its many partners. ODPHP leads this department-wide
   project to provide access to reliable informa- tion via the Internet.
   healthfinder速 includes almost 6,000 resources on 1,000 topics, which
   range from abstinence to wellness and include adoption, aging, AIDS,
   cancer, child care, heart disease, food safety, Medicare and Medicaid,
   nutrition, substance abuse, quality of care, and welfare. Visit
   http://www.healthfinder.gov. National Health Information Center (NHIC)
   This Internet-accessible clearinghouse with a toll-free number provides
   a central health information referral service for consumers and
   profession- als using a database of more than 1,700 national
   associations, Government agencies, and other organizations. NHIC is a
   key component of the interagency support for the healthfinder速 Web
   site. Visit http://www.health.gov/nhic or call 1-800-336-4797. Health
   Communication and ehealth ODPHP is the lead agency for the Health
   Communication Focus Area for Healthy People 2010. The six objectives in
   the Health Communication chapter focus attention on increasing Internet
   access in the home; improving health literacy; improving the quality of
   health information web sites; increasing research and evaluation of
   health communication activities; developing Centers of Excellence in
   health communication; and improving communication between patients and
   health care providers. ODPHP provides leadership and coordination on
   issues of quality of health information on the Internet and the
   development and evaluation of interactive technologies for health.
   Since 1995, ODPHP has coordinated Partnerships for Networked Consumer
   Health Information, a public-private partnership to sponsor national
   conferences where public and private sector representatives explore
   emerging consumer health information and technology issues; visit
   http:// www.health.gov/partnerships. The methods to evaluate
   interactive technologies for health improvement were examined by the
   Science Panel on Interactive Communication and Health (SciPICH), an
   ODPHP-sponsored expert panel. The panel s final report, Wired for
   Health and Well-being:The Emergence of Interactive Health
   Communication, was issued in April 1999. Visit http://www.scipich.org
   Environmental Health Policy Committee (EHPC) and HHS Nutrition Policy
   Board (NPB) These senior-level committees provide departmental
   leadership and coordination to resolve science-based policy questions
   about environmental health and nutrition. The EHPC document,
   Environmental Health Data Needs: An Action Plan for Federal Public
   Health Agencies can be viewed at http:// www.health.gov/environment.
   Task Force on Environmental Health and Safety Risks to Children
   President Clinton established this interdepartmental task force to
   recommend Federal strategies for children s environmental health and
   safety. Priority focus areas include asthma, unintentional injuries,
   cancer, lead, and developmental disorders. The task force is also
   exploring a longitudinal study on child development and the
   environment. The HHS Secretary and the Environmental Protection Agency
   (EPA) Administrator co-chair this task force; OSOPHS/ODPHP and EPA
   staff the effort. Dietary Guidelines for Americans Published jointly
   with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) every 5 years since
   1980, this publication is the statutorily mandated basis for Federal
   nutrition education activities. To view Nutrition and Your Health:
   Dietary Guidelines for Americans (2000) and the Report of the Dietary
   Guidelines Advisory Committee on the Dietary Guidelines for Americans
   (2000), visit http://www.health.gov/dietaryguidelines/. U.S. Action
   Plan for Food Security-Domestic Actions ODPHP coordinated the HHS
   contribution to this follow-up to the 1996 World Food Summit. The plan,
   released in March 1999, includes both international and domestic
   dimensions. Visit http://www.fas.usda.gov/icd/summit/summit.html. Drug
   Policy ODPHP staffs the Assistant Secretary for Health for policy
   development and coordina- tion relating to drug policy in HHS and with
   the White House Office of National Drug Con- trol Policy. Healthy
   Communities, Worksites, and Schools ODPHP works closely with the
   Coalition for Healthier Cities and Communities. Healthy People in
   Healthy Communities, which focuses on ways that communities can adapt
   the national Healthy People objectives for local use; visit http://
   odphp.osophs.dhhs.gov/pubs. ODPHP also coordinates HHS promotion of
   National Public Health Week, which takes place every year during the
   first week of April. To receive a list of ODPHP publications, call the
   ODPHP fax-back system at (301) 468-3028. 5/01
