http://www.wsdot.wa.gov/hotitems.cfm

   [10x15gifspacer.gif] [ Current Events - Current Topics, News Releases,
   and Announcements ]
   [10x15gifspacer.gif]

   traffic and travel conditions ferries rail & transit transportation
   options current events maps & publications
   transportation commission drivers & vehicles other links about WSDOT
   business with WSDOT talk to us frequently asked questions
   [ 10 x 15 gif spacer ]
   Earthquake Update. Latest Road Closures - Department of Transportation
   crews have been working all evening to open roads damaged by the
   earthquake. Click here for the roads that remained closed or have other
   restrictions on them.
   New Secretary of Transportation Named - On February 15, 2001, Governor
   Gary Locke and the Transportation Commission announced the selection of
   Douglas MacDonald, a Massachusetts water and sewer system director, as
   the head of the Washington State Department of Transportation.
   Real Time Road and Weather Information - Real time road and weather
   information provided by WSDOT as a resource to aid travelers in making
   informed travel decisions.
   Transportation newspaper, EXPRESS - Now Transportation's good news is
   easier to find! It's also faster to access. Check out the spiffy new
   EXPRESS, Transportation News, website. Read the newest edition of the
   newspaper and past editions - or use the new search feature to find
   transportation topics of interest to you in the EXPRESS archives.
   Charts on Revenue and Taxes - Thirty years of population and economic
   growth have led Washington into a transportation crisis. We must act
   now to prevent the gridlock on our roads and highways from irreparably
   damaging the state's environmental health and economic prosperity and
   diminishing the personal well-being of citizens. The cost of solving
   our crisis is not cheap, and efficiencies alone will not be enough to
   fund and fix our problems. Click on the link for facts and figures.
   Design-Build - The Washington State Department of Transportation is
   conducting an ongoing evaluation of the Design-Build process for
   highway projects. Issues on the current pilot project, SR 500/Thurston
   Way Interchange in the Southwest Region, are being evaluated to
   determine what improvements can be made to the process for use on
   future Design-Build highway projects.
   New Ramp Meters on SR 520 - RAMP METERING ON SR 520 THROUGH BELLEVUE
   BEGINS SEPTEMBER 18
   Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program: Participation Plan - On
   April 5, 2000, WSDOT received final approval of its revised
   Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program Participation Plan by
   the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT), Federal Highway
   Administration. View the entire plan and all appendices in printable
   Adobe Acrobat format.
   Value Engineering at WSDOT - Value engineering (VE) is an orderly
   analysis and review process by an interdisciplinary team of experts
   from both internal and external partners. VE teams offer alternatives
   to improve project quality and reduce total project costs while
   satisfying all necessary functions.
   Key Facts - A Summary of Useful Transportation Information
   Washington's Transportation Plan - Washington's Transportation Plan
   (WTP) presents a 20-year plan for the state-owned and state-interest
   modes of transportation in Washington State. The WTP is the basis for
   strategic investment decisions statewide. It is the framework that
   links, state, regional, and local plans to provide strategic directions
   for sound transportation investment decisions.
   SR16/Tacoma Narrows Bridge Corridor - Please see --
   http://www.TacomaNarrowsBridge.com
   Strategic Plan 1998 - 2003 - WSDOT Mission Statement, Values, Operating
   Guidelines, Vision Statements, Strategic Goals and Strategic
   Objectives.
   Trans-Lake Washington Project - The Trans-Lake Washington Project will
   develop an environmental impact statement (EIS) to support
   recommendation of a preferred mobility solution for the SR 520
   corridor.

                            [20x20gifspacer.gif]
                            [ yellow rule line ]
                            [20x20gifspacer.gif]

         Traffic & Travel Conditions | Ferries | Rail and Transit |
                           Transportation Options
    Current Events | Maps and Publications | Transportation Commission |
                            Drivers and Vehicles
     Other Links | About WSDOT | Business with WSDOT | Talk to Us | FAQs
   Comments and questions can be sent to info@wsdot.wa.gov  or call (360)
                            705-7000 | WSDOT Home

                               Privacy Notice

    Copyright © 2001, Washington State Department of Transportation. All
                              rights reserved.
                         Last updated March 15, 2001
                               [ WSDOT logo ]
