http://flightlinux.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/onboard_LAN.html



                             FlightLinux Project

                                 Onboard LAN

                              Technical Report

                                May 30, 2001

   Patrick H. Stakem

                               QSS Group, Inc.




   Revision History

   5/30/2001 Initial Release


   Introduction

   The intent of this technical report is to define the LAN (local area
   network) architectures that will be supported by the FlightLinux
   software product. An onboard LAN in a standard configuration will
   simplify the interface between various spacecraft components. A LAN
   consists of the lower (physical) layer, and perhaps two levels of
   software protocol imposed on the physical layer. The advantages of
   running a routable protocol over the physical LAN will be explored.

   This is considered to be a living document, that will be updated as
   required to encorporate new and evolving information. Sections marked
   "to be supplied" will be completed and supplied in subsequent revisions
   of this document. At this writing, a meeting on IP-over-CCSDS is
   scheduled to be held at JPL momentarily, followed by a meeting with the
   Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in London in August, 2001.

   Background

   This work was conducted under task NAS5-99124-297, with funding by the
   NASA Advanced Information Systems Technology (AIST) Program,
   NRA-99-OES-08. The work is conducted by personnel of QSS Group, Inc. in
   partnership with NASA/GSFC codes 586 (Science Data Systems), Code 588
   (Advanced Architectures and Automation), and code 582 (Flight
   Software).

   The FlightLinux project has the stated goal of providing an on-orbit
   flight demonstration of the software within the contract period.
   Numerous other Linux efforts exist within the GSFC flight software
   community. Currently, FlightLinux is being developed for a flight test
   on the UoSat-12 spacecraft, which is already on-orbit. A UoSat-12
   testbed facility owned by the OMNI Project (Code 588) is being used for
   development. This testbed incorporates synchronous serial, CAN bus, and
   ethernet interfaces.

   Management Summary

   This report discusses the existing and projected LAN architectures for
   use onboard spacecraft, and the support that is or will be available
   under FlightLinux. It discusses the benefits and importance of an
   onboard LAN architecture. Given Linux onboard the spacecraft, support
   for a LAN becomes relatively easy. Extending the onboard LAN to other
   spacecraft units in a constellation also becomes feasible, as does
   having the spacecraft operate as an Internet node.

   Interface between spacecraft components is usually provided by
   point-to-point connections, or a master-slave bus architecture. The use
   of a LAN onboard is not yet common. This is partially due to the lack
   of space-qualified components.

   The avionics bus MIL-STD-1553 and its optical derivative, 1773, are
   commonly used between spacecraft components. This bus, used in
   thousands of military and commercial aircraft has a legacy of
   applications behind it. Also, 1553 is transformer-coupled and
   dual-redundant, providing a level of failure protection. The raw data
   rate is 1 megabit per second. It is a master-slave architecture.

   For point-to-point connections that do not require the complexity of a
   1553/1773 connection, a synchronous serial connection such as RS-422/23
   with a bit rate around 1 megabit per second is typically used.

   A LAN-type architecture is typically used in office and enterprise
   environments (and spacecraft control centers). It provides a connection
   between peer units, or clients and servers. The typical LAN used a coax
   or twisted pair connection at a transmission rate of 10 megabits per
   second, a twisted pair connection at 100 megabits per second, or
   optical at 155 megabits per second, with higher speeds possible.

   Usually, a LAN is configured with a repeating hub, or a central switch
   between units. The standard protocol imposed on the physical interface
   is TCP/IP - transmission control protocol/internet protocol, although
   others are possible (even simultaneously). The TCP/IP protocol has
   become a favored approach to linking computers around the world. The
   protocol is supported by Linux and most other operating environments.
   The use of TCP/IP first appeared in 1969.

   The OSI model and Network Protocols

                               To be supplied

   Server Based networks

                               To be supplied

   TCP/IP Protocol, and the OSI Model

                               To be supplied

   Bridges and Routers

   Bridges operate between networks, at the OSI Data Link Layer (level 2).
   Switches also operate at level 2. Routers operate at OSI level 3 - the
   Network layer.

   Routable versus non-routable protocols

   A communications protocol that contains a network address as well as a
   device address, allowing data to be routed from one network to another,
   is called a routable protocol. If the protocol does not contain a
   network (level 3) address, it is not routable. A non-routable protocol
   does not incorporate an addressing scheme for sending data from one
   network to another. The TCP/IP protocol is routable.

   References:

   1) Good background material can be found at:
   http://marconi.com/html/education/webbasedlantheory.htm

   2) Habraken, Joe, Practical Cisco Routers, Que Books

   3) Naik, Dilip C., Internet Standards and Protocols

   4) OSI Model,
   http://www.erg.abdn.ac.uk/users/gorry/eg3561/intro-pages/osi.html

   Discussion of Near-term onboard LAN options

   The following Onboard LAN options for the physical layer are derived
   from the Spacecraft onboard payload data accommodations section of the
   Rapid-I and -II programs, (see http://rsdo.gsfc.nasa.gov), and from
   common and emerging commercial LAN architectures These can be
   considered typical of near-term spacecraft architectures for onboard
   data transfer.

   1. MIL-STD-1553b/1773

   The effective data throughput of the legacy 1553 bus is around 300
   kilobits per second. The bus architecture has a single master with
   multiple slaves, and uses dual-redundant transformer-coupled buses.
   This technology has an extensive experience base in avionics and space.
   1773 is the optical version of twisted pair 1553, and operates at
   higher rates. It should be noted that a component may be on multiple
   1553 buses simultaneously, and may serve as master of one, and slave on
   others. In essence, master units can initiate communication, where
   slave units speak when spoken to.

   Because 1553 is a master-slave architecture, it does not map well to a
   client-server type model. However, the Spacecraft Onboard Inter Face
   (SOIF) group, under the auspices of the CCSDS committee, has been
   looking at these issues. It is not impossible to run a protocol such as
   TCP/IP over master-slave architectures, although it is not
   straight-forward.

   The use of 1553/1773 is facilitated by the availability of space
   qualified hardware.

   references

   1) 1553 Product Handbook, United Technology Microelectronic Center,
   1991.

   2) MIL-STD-1553 Designer's Guide, 3rd. edition, ILC Data Device
   Corporation, 1990.

   3) SOIF: ftp://ftp.estec.esa.nl/pub/ws/wsd/ccsds/ccsdsoif/intro.htm


   2. EIA-RS-422

   RS-422 is a serial point-to-point physical interface over wire. It has
   an effective maximum throughput to 5 megabits per second. Usually, a
   synchronous serial protocol such as (High level data link control) HDLC
   is imposed over RS-422.

   3. EIA-RS-485

   RS-485 is an upgraded version of the RS-422 protocol, specifically
   designed to address the problem of communication between multiple
   devices on a single data line. It is a balanced transmission system
   that is virtually identical to RS-422 with the important addition of
   the ability to allow up to 32 devices to communicate using the same
   data line. Thus any point can directly communicate with each other,
   taking on the role of master and slave as needed. This is achieved by
   the use of tri-state drivers which are controlled by a programmable
   handshake line to ensure that only one device acts as a driver at any
   one time. Communication can be initiated from any point on the line. A
   protocol such as HDLC can be imposed on RS-485.

   Reference:

   http://www.erg.abdn.ac.uk/users/gorry/eg3561/dl-pages/hdlc-framing.html

   4. CAN

   CAN is the Controller Area Network, originally developed for
   automobiles and industrial use. It uses a two-wire differential bus. It
   is a serial protocol, with data rates to 1 Mbit/sec. It implements
   distributed real time control and multiplexing. CAN represents the Data
   link and physical layer of the ISO networking model. It is used by
   Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd. for UOSat-12 and SNAP-1, and is
   supported by Linux drivers.

   The Controller Area Network (CAN) specification defines the Data Link
   Layer, ISO 11898 defines the Physical Layer. The CAN interface is an
   2-wire asynchronous transmission scheme controlled by start and stop
   bits at the beginning and end of each character. This interface is
   used, employing serial binary interchange. Information is passed from
   transmitters to receivers in a data frame. The data frame is composed
   of an Arbitration field, Control field, Data field, CRC field, ACK
   field. The frame begins with a ‘Start of frame’, and ends with an ‘End
   of frame’ space. The data field may be from 0 to 8 bits. The frame
   check sequence is derived from a Cyclic Redundancy Code (CRC).

   References:

   1) http://www.interfacebus.com/Design_Connector_CAN.html

   2) ISO 11898/11519


   5. USB

   The Universal Serial Bus (USB) has been developed and standardized
   under the collaborative efforts of a number of hardware and software
   manufacturers to address the limitations and complexity associated with
   adding expansion devices to the personal computer. However, the use of
   USB is not limited to Intel or X86 architecture. The USB specification
   describes a standard for attaching peripheral devices to computers that
   can be used with many processor types including the more capable
   embedded processors that control many modern devices or systems. In
   addition, USB can be used to interconnect computers, or to connect mass
   storage devices to processors.

   Traditionally there has been a limitation on the number of peripheral
   devices that can be attached to a computer. The more common methods of
   delivering and receiving data from a computer require it to provide
   dedicated physical and logical assets for each connected input/output
   (I/O) device. Physical assets include the electrical connectors and
   circuitry required to attach devices to the computer, while logical
   assets include the methods required to signal the computer that an
   external device is ready to deliver or accept information. External
   devices are defined as any add-on device, whether it is plugged into a
   card slot inside the computer’s cabinet or attached to a connector on
   the exterior of the cabinet.

   The lack of expansion capability for inexpensive computers, coupled
   with a flood of new or planned add-on devices, particularly medium
   speed multimedia peripherals such as scanners, cameras, digital audio,
   and telephony equipment drove the development of the Universal Serial
   Bus. The USB allows the attachment of up to 127. A number of the 127
   devices will actually be expansion ports that allow connection of
   additional devices in a tiered manner. USB is supported by the
   Microsoft Windows 98/ME/2000 and Apple Macintosh OS9 operating systems.
   The Linux operating system also provides partial USB support. Common
   hardware support for USB is provided on virtually all Intel
   architecture PCs built after 1997 and on the Apple Computer iMac,
   PowerMac G4, and iBook products.

   The ability to connect 127 devices to a single USB port is accomplished
   by using methods that have more in common with computer networking
   models than with previous types of input/output connection for
   peripherals. Communication is between adjacent layers in the stack as
   well as between the corresponding layers of the transmitting and
   receiving stacks. The emerging USB-II protocol will increase the
   existing transmission speed from the existing 1.5/12 Mbps to 480 Mbps.
   USB-II devices and support are just appearing in the marketplace.

   Reference:

   1) http://mes.loyola.edu/FACULTY/PHS1.HTM - the pages on USB were
   compiled by Paul M. Reeves, for Loyola College, Dept. of Engineering
   Science, Graduate School in partial fulfillment of the requirements for
   a Master's Degree, under P. Stakem, Advisor.

   6. FireWire

   IEEE-1394, also known as FireWire-3, is a high-speed serial bus
   standard developed for consumer electronics. FireWire is to be easy to
   use and configure, but is more complex than SpaceWire (discussed in
   Section 7), which has lower latency with higher scalability. Since
   FireWire and SpaceWire are aimed at different applications, they also
   have different specifications. Firewire is a registered trademark of
   Apple-Computer, Inc.

   FireWire is a bus (master-slave) architecture using cable media. A tree
   or daisy chain topology is required. It uses a 6-wire cable: 2 for
   power supply & 2 pairs for data: Each pair transmits one Data or Strobe
   Signal in differential form in one direction. Links are half-duplex:
   i.e. data can be transmitted only in one direction at the time. The
   data rates are specified at 100 Mbps, 200 Mbps, and 400 Mbps.

   FireWire devices in military-grade (but not in radiation tolerant
   grade) are available now. Current FireWire connectors are not suitable
   for space applications.

   References

   1) IEEE-1394, http://www.1394ta.com/


   7. Spacewire

   SpaceWire is a network for space applications composed of nodes and
   routers interconnected through bi-directional high-speed digital serial
   links using cable media.

   SpaceWire is an upgrade of the high-speed digital serial links defined
   in the DS-DE part of the IEEE-1355 Standard. SpaceWire is based on the
   DS-DE (DataStrobe-Differential Ended) part of the IEEE 1355 Standard,
   and its main characteristics are:

     * high-speed (> 100 Mbps) bi-directional
     * point-to-point serial interface
     * can be used at 10 meters distance or more
     * simple interface using Data-Strobe
     * Low-Cost, Low-Latency, Scalable

   Data rate is not specified in the Standard (it is a function of skew
   and jitter). At present, devices operate at 155-200 Mbps.

   SpaceWire is a derivative of the Inmos Transputer link architecture,
   which was a 10 Mbps asynchronous serial interconnect, that could be
   switched. The transparent physical layer of SpaceWire is compatible
   with higher level protocols (e.g. ATM, SCI, Ethernet).

   References:

   1) http://www.estec.esa.nl/tech/spacewire/index.html

   2) http://grouper.ieee.org/groups/1355/index.html, IEEE Std 1355-1995
   Standard for Heterogeneous InterConnect (HIC) (Low Cost Low Latency
   Scalable Serial Interconnect)

   8. 10baseT, 100 base T Ethernet

   Of all the protocols, Ethernet is the most widely used. It provides
   network access using carrier sense multiple access with collision
   detection (CSMA/CD) as a strategy. The nodes on the network listen
   before transmitting. If two nodes happen to transmit at the same time,
   the communication is garbled. This is detected, and each transmitter
   waits a random time, and tries again. Ethernet can be run across a
   variety of media, including optical fibre, to gigabit speeds.

   Standards:

   1. Ethernet 802.3 - Novel Netware 2 &3

   2. Ethernet 802.2 - Novel Netware 4 and 5

   3. Ethernet SNAP - AppleTalk


   The OMNI Project, IP in space experience.

                               To be supplied

   References:

   1. The OMNI Project webpage: http://ipinspace.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   2. Internet Access to Spacecraft, James Rash, Ron Parise, Keith Hogie,
   Ed Criscuolo, Jim Langston, Chris Jackson, Harold Price^, published at
   the Small Satellite 2000 conference in Logan, Utah.

   3. Internet Technology on Spacecraft, James Rash, Ron Parise, Keith
   Hogie, Ed Criscuolo, Jim Langston, AIAA paper 2000-5295


   The UoSat-12 Onboard Computer configuration

   The UoSat-12 onboard computer, which will become the onorbit testbed
   for FlightLinux, is an embedded Intel 80386EX processor, with 4
   megabytes of main memory, 128 megabytes of extended memory, and 4
   synchronous serial interfaces, dual CAN bus interfaces, and an ethernet
   port. A Linux interface developed by the OMNI Project will for the
   synchronous ports will be adapted for FlightLinux. Similarly, existing
   device drivers for the CAN bus will be ported to Linux. The ethernet
   port is standard, and should be directly supported by FlightLinux.

   Reference:
   http://www.sstl.co.uk/missions/subpage_missions_uosat_12.html


   The OMNI FlatSat Configuration

   To be supplied


   Expeience with LAN Physical layer options onboard spacecraft

   MIL-D-1553b/1773 extensive experience base

   EIA RS-422, -485 common use for point-point

   CAN limited use, in flight

   USB no known usage

   FireWire experimental

   SpaceWire experimental. ESA favored

   10Base-T experimental


   Interaction of the Onboard Lan with CCSDS Protocols

   To be supplied
