http://www.caed.uscourts.gov/av/AVBody.htm

   OVERVIEW

   This document is intended to provide you with an overview of the court
   audio-visual evidence presentation systems. The systems are available
   for use in both the District and Magistrate Courtrooms in Sacramento.
   The following provides specific details regarding the equipment and
   it's uses. This document may also serve as a reference to brief clients
   and witnesses.

   In order to reserve equipment, it is recommended that attorneys first
   contact the appropriate court room deputy. Attorneys should arrange
   through the court room deputy a time to meet with court Information
   Technology staff. Appointments ideally should be scheduled at least a
   week prior to court.

   LISTING OF COURT PROVIDED EQUIPMENT

   Audio Systems:

   The courtroom audio systems consist of several components, including:
   microphones and overhead speakers, an infra-red interpretation and
   hearing impaired reinforcement system, auxiliary audio inputs, and an
   audio conferencing system. The major audio components are discussed
   below.

   Microphones and Overhead speaker system

   Microphones are located at judge and courtroom deputy benches, as well
   as counsel tables. The microphones have touch pads which mute sound
   when pressed. Normal operation resumes when the touch pad is no longer
   pressed. Although the microphones are sound sensitive, users should
   remember to speak no further than 12" away from the mouthpiece to
   achieve optimal clarity.

   All overhead speakers in the courtroom normally transmit sound during
   court proceedings. The court room deputy may control  sound output to
   specific areas of the court room from an AMX control panel. A sidebar
   microphone is also available at the witness bench. The courtroom deputy
   presses the bench conference button from the AMX control panel so that
   white noise is transmitted over the speakers.

   Interpreter/Hearing Impaired Systems

   Each courtroom is equipped with interpreter and hearing impaired
   systems. The systems use infrared technology which transmits sound to
   headset users. By selecting  channel "1", a headset user hears the
   court interpreter proceedings. By selecting channel "2", a headset user
   hears a sound-enhanced version of all court proceedings.

    Auxiliary Audio Inputs:

   There are outlets at the two front counsel tables labeled "Aux Audio".
   The outlets are RCA female connectors. Counsel can bring CD players or
   tape decks to play over the Court’s audio system by connecting to these
   outlets. There is an additional outlet at the Court Reporter’s bench
   area.

   Audio Teleconferencing:

   The Courtrooms are equipped with a Getner-720 audio conferencing unit.
   The teleconferencing feature allows callers from outside the courtroom
   to participate in court proceedings. Audio from the teleconference is
   transmitted over the Court’s overhead sound system. Control of
   teleconference features can be made via an AMX touchscreen control
   panel located at the courtroom deputy’s bench. Control features
   include:

     On/off
     Volume control
     Privacy (Mute)

   [AMXTelecon.jpg]

   Arrangements to utilize audio conferencing must be made with the
   Courtroom Deputy.
   Video Systems:

   The court has (5) portable video display carts which can be moved from
   courtroom to courtroom on an as-needed basis. The display cart has the
   following components: a VCR, document camera, annotator and laptop
   connection. In addition, the court has (1) overhead projector. Multiple
   locations within the courtroom for monitor displays are also available.
   The major video components are discussed below.
   [Cart.jpg]

   VCR:

   A VCR is available to project images to an overhead or flat screen.
   Audio from the VCR can also be output through the Court’s sound system.

   Document Camera

   The document camera allows council to project an image (such as a text
   document, evidence, etc..) onto an overhead or flat screen. The Court
   has (4) WolfVision and (2) Samsung document cameras.  There are
   limitations to what the cameras can accomplish. For example, it is not
   practical to display an entire 8 1/2 x 11 document on a video screen
   due to limitations in the document camera visual output capacity.
   Presenters may also want to consider using text documents with at least
   10 point font.

   Wolf Vision:
   When displaying text documents on the Wolf Vision, it is necessary to
   press the "Data Text On" button. When displaying negatives, slides or
   x-rays, the document camera display platform must be turned over to the
   white side in order to provide optimal viewing. Features which are
   available on the document camera include:

     Preset control
     Focus
     Zoom control
     Iris (contast) control

   Samsung:
   The court has (1) Samsung SVP-6000 document camera. The camera provides
   all the features of the Wolf Vision and in addition, is fully digital.
   Due to the superior image clarity that the Samsung can provide, it is
   often checked-out. The camera may be reserved upon request.

   Laptop Connection

   A laptop computer is available to interface with the existing overhead
   and flat screen systems. The laptop connection is a VGA male plug
   (female VGA cord is required).

   Annotation Tablet

   The annotation tablet, also known as the "John Madden" device, allows
   council to superimpose drawings or notations on top of a projected
   image. Use of the tablet requires some practice in order to become
   competent during courtroom proceedings.  The tablet can also be used
   like a "chalkboard", which allows the operator to draw on a blank
   screen.

   Projection System

   A Barco 6300 overhead projector is available to display images onto the
   court's drop-down projection screen. The screen is located directly
   opposite the jury box. The Barco projector is very bright (2200 ANSI
   lumens) and has a 350:1 contrast ratio. It is compatible with all court
   AV equipment. Attorneys using their own laptop computers in conjunction
   with the Barco, should test out the system before formal court
   presentations.

   [SamsungDC.jpg]
   Slide Projector

   A slide projector is available as an additional tool. It does not
   interface directly with the Court’s video system, but can be used for
   stand alone presentations.

   * Connectivity is available to provide audio and video output from an
   attorney provided laptop. The audio connection can also be used to
   connect an attorney provided tape recorder or CD player. Attorneys must
   bring their own laptops, tape recorders and CD player, since the Court
   provides ONLY connectivity for these devices.
   Monitors:

   Flat Screen Monitors

   13" flat screen monitors are available to project an image from any
   Court video input device. There are a (4) flat screen connections
   available in the courtroom - at the judge's bench, court room deputy's
   bench and at each counsel table. Should more connections be required, a
   splitter may be used. Splitters should be  VGA female connection on one
   end and VGA male connections on the other. Splitters are not provided
   by the Courts and must be purchased at the expense of the video
   presenter.

   Large Screen Monitors

   The Court has 35" monitors which are available for use. Most judges
   will not allow more than one large monitor in the courtroom due to
   limited space. The 35" monitors also interface directly with the Court
   video input devices.
