http://www.frtr.gov/publications/infobase98.html

   roundtable logo ( bytes)

                            Federal Remediation
                            Technologies Roundtable

                            Site Remediation Technology InfoBase
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   NOTICE
   This document has been funded by the United States Environmental
   Protection Agency under Contract 68-W6-0014. It has been subject to
   administrative review by all agencies participating in the Federal
   Remediation Technologies Roundtable, and has been approved for
   publication. Any mention of trade names or commercial products does not
   constitute endorsement or recommendation for use.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

     * FEDERAL CLEANUP PROGRAMS
          + U.S. Department of Defense Cleanup Programs
               o DoD Environmental Quality Mission and Challenges
               o DoD Environmental Quality RDT&E Process
               o Defense Environmental Restoration Program
               o U.S. Army Defense Environmental Restoration Program
               o U.S. Air Force Major Commands
               o U.S. Navy Facilities Engineering Command
          + U.S. Department of Energy Cleanup Programs
               o Environmental Restoration Program Needs
               o Environmental Technology Development Programs and
                 Services
               o Technology Focus Areas
          + U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Cleanup Programs
               o Hazardous Waste Cleanup Sites
               o RCRA Corrective Action Sites
               o Underground Storage Tank Sites
     * FEDERAL SITE REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
       ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
          + Interagency R&D Assistance Programs
               o Rapid Commercialization Initiative
               o Small Business Innovative Research Program/Small Business
                 Technology Transfer Research Program
          + U.S. Department of Defense R&D Assistance Programs
               o Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
               o Environmental Security Technology Certification Program
               o National Environmental Technology Test Sites (NETTS)
                 Program
               o Naval Environmental Leadership Program
               o Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program
               o Unexploded Ordnance Technology Demonstration Program
               o U.S. Army Environmental Center
          + U.S. Department of Energy R&D Assistance Programs
               o Industry and University Programs Area
               o Program Research & Development Announcements/Research
                 Opportunity Announcements
               o TechCon
               o Technology Development Initiative
          + U.S. Environmental Protection Agency R&D Assistance Programs
               o Environmental Technology Verification Program
               o National Center for Environmental Research and Quality
                 Assurance
               o Remediation Technologies Development Forum
               o Superfund Innovative Technology Evaluation Program
     * FEDERAL SITE REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
       ELECTRONIC DATA BASES
          + U.S. Department of Commerce
               o National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
                 Bibliographic Data Base
          + U.S. Department of Energy
               o DOE R&D Project Summaries Web Data Base
               o New Technology from DOE
               o ReOpt: Electronic Encyclopedia of Remedial Action Options
          + U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
               o Bioremediation in the Field Search System
               o RREL Treatability Data Base
               o Vendor Information System for Innovative Treatment
                 Technologies/Vendor Field Analytical Characterization
                 Technology System
     * FEDERAL ELECTRONIC RESOURCES FOR SITE REMEDIATION
       TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION
          + Federal Remediation Technologies Roundtable
          + U.S. Department of Defense
               o Defense Environmental Network and Information Exchange
               o Fielding Environmental Solutions
               o Technology Summary Sheets
          + U.S. Department of Energy
               o Environmental Technologies Remedial Actions Data Exchange
                 (EnviroTRADE)
          + U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
               o Alternative Treatment Technology Information Center
               o Hazardous Waste Cleanup Information System
               o National Center for Environmental Publications and
                 Information
     * OTHER ELECTRONIC RESOURCES FOR SITE REMEDIATION
       TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION
          + Global Network for Environmental Technology
          + Groundwater Remediation Technologies Analysis Center
          + National Technology Transfer Center
     * SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY: FEDERAL PUBLICATIONS ON ALTERNATIVE AND
       INNOVATIVE SITE REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGIES
          + BIOLOGICAL
               o EPA
               o U.S. Air Force
               o U.S. Army
          + CONFERENCES AND INTERNATIONAL SURVEYS
               o EPA
               o U.S. Army
          + GROUNDWATER
               o DOE
               o EPA
               o U.S. Army
          + PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL
               o EPA
               o U.S. Army
               o U.S. Navy
     * TECHNOLOGY SURVEY REPORTS
          + DOE
          + EPA
          + U.S. Army
          + U.S. Navy
          + THERMAL PROCESSES
               o DOE
               o EPA
          + TREATABILITY STUDIES
               o EPA
               o U.S. Army
     * APPENDIX: TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM CONTACTS
          + U.S. Department of Defense
          + U.S. Department of Energy
          + U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
     __________________________________________________________________

                          FEDERAL CLEANUP PROGRAMS

   U.S. Department of Defense Cleanup Programs

   DoD Environmental Quality Mission and Challenges

   The Department of Defense's Environmental Quality Research,
   Development, Testing, and Evaluation (EQ RDT&E) program is based on
   four requirements that constitute the pillars of DoD's environmental
   security mission. DoD is required to:
    1. Cleanup hazardous wastes resulting from past practices at active,
       formerly used, and to-be-closed military sites;
    2. Comply with laws by controlling hazardous emissions from its
       systems and operations;
    3. Prevent pollution through substitutions of materials and processes
       to significantly reduce or eliminate the generation of pollutants;
       and
    4. Conserve natural and cultural resources through proper stewardship
       and management.

   Cleanup. DoD has identified 17,660 potentially contaminated sites at
   1,877 DoD installations and 6,786 formerly used defense sites (FUDs).
   Of these, about 7,000 will require cleanup. DoD estimates that nearly
   all sites have been identified and that cleanup of the sites will be
   completed by 2011. Design and construction work will increase through
   1998, then moderate until all cleanup is completed. The most common
   contaminants at DoD sites are: petroleum products, solvents, metals,
   pesticides, and paints. Some sites also contain more unusual wastes,
   such as unexploded ordnance or low-level radioactive materials.

   Compliance. DoD must meet all regulatory requirements established by
   law relating to air, water, and land discharges. Many compliance
   deadlines have been met with best-available but costly technology; some
   operations continue under temporary waivers. Experience suggests that
   future regulations will likely be more stringent, and compliance
   through emission control will continue to be required, since it will
   not be possible to eliminate all hazardous discharge through pollution
   prevention strategies.

   Pollution Prevention. DoD is required to reduce waste streams through
   material substitution and redesign of materials and processes that are
   environmentally superior while continuing to be functionally effective.
   The primary targets, derived from the Toxic Release Inventory and EPA's
   list of the 17 most toxic substances, are volatile organic compounds,
   ozone depleting substances, and hazardous/toxic materials.

   Conservation. DoD must balance conflicting demands of more
   space-intensive training on diminishing military lands. Maintenance of
   national infrastructure for flood control, navigation, and other Corps
   of Engineers national civil works often result in competing uses for
   land resources. Protection of coastal and marine resources, while
   conducting operations for military readiness, also presents challenges.

   DoD, as "owners" of environmental problems, and with both an interest
   in safeguarding the public and the legal responsibility for its own
   contamination, requires more effective and less costly technologies to
   address environmental security. DoD has an interest in the accelerated
   development and implementation of cost-effective advanced technologies
   since it must provide timely solutions for its mission-unique
   technology needs and its other extensive, costly, complex, and risky
   environmental needs.

   DoD recognizes the need for competent in-house people for smart
   technology buying from academia, industry, or other agencies. Such
   competence can only be maintained by active pursuit of research and
   development in its laboratories and centers and simultaneous pursuit of
   scientific understanding of issues, processes, and continued advances
   in technology, coupled with rigorous testing and evaluation through an
   integrated research and development program. Integration is provided
   through existing mechanisms led by Defense laboratories' balance of
   intramural and extramural activities.

            DoD Problem Areas and Development Mission Objectives

                  Problem Definition Development Objectives
                                   Cleanup
     The remediation of soil, sediment, groundwater, surface water, and
    structures contaminated with hazardous and toxic materials from past
   military activities. Provide new or improved cost effective methods to
     identify, evaluate, treat, control, and mitigate past hazardous and
           toxic materials disposal practices in three areas: site
       investigation/characterization; remediation; and environmental
                          contaminant and effects.
                                 Compliance
   EQ requirements relating to air, water, and land pollution through the
   control, treatment, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Primary
        areas of emphasis are industrial activities, solid and liquid
        discharges from ships, and environmentally sound disposal of
    pyrotechnics, explosives, and propellants. Technologies for advanced
     end-of-pipe control, treatment, and disposal of wastes to meet air,
     water, and land requirements. R&D is focused on characterization of
     pollutant and waste behavior, media-specific control and treatment
   technologies, and monitoring and assessment tools. To meet existing and
       future national/international regulatory constraints otherwise
                         inhibiting the DoD mission.
                            Pollution Prevention
   Elimination and/or minimization of materials and materials development
    processes that produce or release hazardous, toxic, or excess wastes
    into the environment. Technology in the form of materials, processes,
   and functional products allowing the eventual elimination of the use of
      VOC, ODC, and HAZMAT materials and processes in DoD maintenance,
             overhaul, and remanufacture of new weapons systems.
                                Conservation
       Maintaining optimum training, testing, and operational mission
      effectiveness by stewardship and preservation of the natural and
     cultural resources on DoD lands. Enhanced and continued testing and
       training mission effectiveness through effective management of
   ecological and cultural resources diversity and productivity. Advanced
   models and techniques for resource characterization/impact analysis and
              improved mitigation and rehabilitation measures.

   DoD Environmental Quality RDT&E Process

   DoD's EQ RDT&E effort is almost totally executed by the Services
   through Civil & Environmental Engineering, Combat Material, and
   Corporate laboratories. These laboratories provide the technical
   expertise to enable the Services to be smart buyers and users of new
   and improved technologies. Each laboratory generally performs the
   environmental work required by the primary weapon, platform, or
   installation mission it supports. For example:
     * The Air Force Research Laboratory's Airbase and Environmental
       Technology Division and the Naval Air Warfare Center share the lead
       on environmental work for aviation and maritime aviation.
     * The Naval Surface Warfare Center does environmental RDT&E for ships
       in support of NAVSEA, the acquisition and life-cycle manager for
       surface weapons systems.
     * The U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station (WES), where
       cleanup RDT&E is executed, is under the Command of Headquarters,
       U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which administers the cleanup program
       for the Army.

   In the continuous dialogue between technology users and R&D producers,
   the laboratories interpret science and technology to enable users to
   separate the R&D requirement from needs that can be addressed through
   existing and available technology. User stated requirements are
   cross-checked for commonality by the Tri-Service Project Reliance Joint
   Engineers' Panel teams for the four environmental security mission
   pillars. These pillars are comprised of R&D engineers and scientists
   from each Service who also sit on parallel teams of the interagency
   Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program (SERDP). The
   personnel on the teams possess the subject matter expertise to
   understand the technology, interpret the requirements to create
   balanced and focused joint projects and evaluate technical program
   proposals for inclusion in SERDP, the Environmental Security Technology
   Certification Program (ESTCP), and other agency programs. The teams
   provide for DoD inter-laboratory integration and the leveraging of
   technical concepts, programs, and talents to create projects for
   innovative dual use technology, while providing for DoD user
   requirements.

   Laboratory personnel play a key role in technology shortfall need
   identification and assisting field commands to understand and solve
   urgent problems requiring emerging technologies from any source.
   Laboratory scientists and engineers communicate their R&D
   accomplishments and DoD technology needs to professional, trade, and
   academic forums through scientific or technical papers and numerous
   other exchanges. The research engineers and scientists link their
   laboratories with field users and external suppliers of science and
   technology from industry, academia, and other agencies. This
   communication interaction that underlies the more formal and visible
   user requirements development and approval processes is the work of
   people who have ready access to peer organizations, the private sector,
   and the users who need their advice. They also have access to industry
   and academia peers to facilitate their understanding of DoD's specific
   needs and constraints.

   The DoD Cleanup Pillar R&D Structure is appended to this section.

   Defense Environmental Restoration Program

   DoD cleanup policy is determined centrally under the Defense
   Environmental Restoration Program (DERP). DERP includes two major
   components: Other Hazardous Waste Operations (OHW) and the Installation
   Restoration Program (IRP). Under the IRP, DoD performs all required
   contaminated site cleanups. Although policy direction and oversight of
   IRP are responsibilities of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense,
   each Service (Army, Navy, Air Force) is responsible for program
   implementation.

   DERP has specified procedures for evaluating sites and procuring
   cleanup services under IRP that follow EPA guidelines for site
   investigations and remediation. These procedures cover all phases of
   site operations, including preliminary assessment/site inspection
   (PA/SI), remedial investigation/feasibility study (RI/FS), and remedial
   design/and remedial action (RD/RA).

   Nearly all DoD assessment and remediation work is done through
   contractors. Generally, there are two types of contractors: those
   engaged in site assessments and investigations (PA/SI through RI/FS)
   and those that perform cleanups (RD/RA). Contractors that work on
   PA/SIs and RI/FSs seldom work on the RD/RA phase.

   In selecting and designing remedies, DoD officials coordinate with EPA
   Regional officials to ensure that cleanup goals meet regulatory
   requirements. Most contracting is done on an installation-oriented
   basis, either through centralized contracting service centers or
   directly by the installation. Although each Service follows general
   procedures specified by DERP, each procures its own services.

   DoD spends approximately $15 million annually on RTD&E, primarily to
   demonstrate promising technologies. Technologies demonstrated include:
   bioventing, in situ aerobic and anaerobic bioremediation, monitored
   natural attenuation, in situ and ex situ vapor extraction, in situ soil
   venting, chemical detoxification of chlorinated aromatic compounds,
   incineration of soil contaminated with explosives, infrared thermal
   destruction, low temperature thermal stripping, thermal destruction,
   radio frequency thermal soil decontamination, and composting of
   explosives-contaminated soil.

   U.S. Army Defense Environmental Restoration Program

   The U.S. Army Environmental Center (AEC) is responsible for program
   management of the IRP to include program, fiscal, and technical
   oversight. USACE develops the annual and multiyear IRP workplans based
   on MACOM requirements, provides assistance to MACOMs in development and
   quality assurance of requirements through the Installation Action
   Plans, and monitors and evaluates MACOM performance against the funded
   requirements. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) performs most
   phases of project execution. The DoD Formerly Used Defense Sites (FUDS)
   are administered by USACE.

   U.S. Air Force Major Commands

   The Air Force IRP is decentralized. It is executed by the Air Force
   Major Commands. Each may obtain specialized technical support from
   contractors in one of three ways: through task-order contracts
   administered by five contract service centers; through individual
   contracts issued by the commands themselves; or by individual
   installations. Much of the Air Force's restoration work is being
   conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers. In the future, the Air Force
   plans to issue contracts for this work.

   U.S. Navy Facilities Engineering Command

   The Navy Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) manages the Navy IRP.
   Day-to-day operations of the IRP are conducted by ten field divisions
   that operate within distinct geographical boundaries. The majority of
   the IRP work is being done by support contractors under two distinct
   contract mechanisms, each managed by the field divisions:
     * Comprehensive Long-Term Environmental Action Navy (CLEAN) contracts
       for procuring remedial study and design services.
     * Remedial Action Contracts (RACs) for procuring remedial cleanup
       services.

                      DoD CLEANUP PILLAR R&D STRUCTURE

                    OBJECTIVES SUB-AREAS PROGRAM THRUSTS
      Improved Site Characterization and Monitoring Remote Sensing 1A:
                      Detection of Unexploded Ordnance
    Field Sampling and Analysis 1B: Site Characterization and Monitoring
                           1D: Analytical Systems
                Database Development 1E: Groundwater Systems
    Expeditious, Less Costly Remediation Technologies Which Protect Human
          Health and the Environment Groundwater/Surface Water 1F:
                Explosives/Organics Contaminated Groundwater
                    1H: Solvents/Fuels Contaminated Soils
                     1I: Fuels Contaminated Groundwater
           Soils/Sludges 1G: Remediation of UXO Contaminated Sites
                 1J: Explosives/Organics Contaminated Soils
                    1H: Solvents/Fuels Contaminated Soils
                      1N: Inorganics Contaminated Soils
             Structures 1O: Heavy Metal Contaminated Structures
            1P: Explosive/Chemical Agent Contaminated Structures
                     Sediment 1R: Contaminated Sediments
   Develop User-Based Risk Assessment Methodologies Fate Transport Models
              1T: Fate/Transport Methods and Model Development
                    1U: Risk and Hazard Assessment Model

   U.S. Department of Energy Cleanup Programs

   Environmental Restoration Program Needs

   DOE's Environmental Restoration Program is responsible for cleaning up
   110 major installations and other locations. DOE estimates that
   remediation may be required at about 4,000 of its contaminated areas or
   sites. Most sites have been used for nuclear weapons research,
   development, and production. DOE installations tend to be much larger
   than non-DOE sites. Twenty-three DOE sites are listed on the Superfund
   National Priorities List.

   Key considerations of DOE's Environmental Restoration program include
   the following:
     * Most of the DOE cleanup effort is occurring at 64 installations
       managed under the Remedial Actions Program.
     * Some contaminants at DOE installations are unique to nuclear
       production, while others are common to more typical industrial
       processes. Mixed waste (containing both radioactive and
       non-radioactive constituents) is a widespread problem.
     * The Decontamination and Decommissioning Program will involve up to
       1,000 facilities. This program manages retired government- owned
       facilities such as reactors, laboratories, buildings, and storage
       tanks.
     * DOE conducts research and development, primarily in the form of
       demonstrations of technologies such as in situ bioremediation, air
       stripping, vitrification, soil washing, solvent extraction, solar
       detoxification, and above-ground biological treatment.

   Contractors perform virtually all cleanup and restoration work at DOE
   installations. DOE awards remedial action contracts on a site-by-site
   basis. These contracts are managed by DOE's Operations Offices.
   Depending on the site, contractors may be responsible for management
   tasks, actual cleanup work, waste management duties, or various
   combinations. For example, contractors are responsible for day-to-day
   project management under Environmental Restoration Management Contracts
   (ERMCs) awarded at the Hanford and Fernald sites. ERMC contractors have
   the option of performing remedial investigation/feasibility studies
   themselves and are responsible for subcontracting remaining work to
   companies with specialized expertise and technology

   DOE has begun to implement a number of contract reforms that emphasize
   performance-based approaches and risk sharing, provide incentives for
   M&O contractors for cost-reduction and safety measures, and identify
   tasks that should be undertaken by qualified subcontractors. The first
   two integrated management contracts awarded under the new system have
   been multi-year efforts for management and cleanup of the Idaho
   National Engineering Laboratory and Rocky Flats sites.

   Environmental Technology Development Programs and Services

   DOE provides a range of programs and services to assist universities,
   industry, and other private sector organizations and individuals
   interested in developing or applying environmental technologies.
   Working with DOE Operations Offices, as well as management and
   operating contractors, EM employs a number of mechanisms to identify,
   integrate, develop, and adapt promising emerging technologies. These
   mechanisms include collaborative arrangements, procurement provisions,
   licensing of technologies, consulting arrangements, reimbursable work
   for industry, and special consideration for small business.

   EM awards grants and cooperative agreements if 51% or more of the value
   of the effort is related to a public interest goal. Such goals include
   advancement of present/future U.S. capabilities in domestic and
   international environmental cleanup markets, technology transfer,
   advancement of scientific knowledge, or education and training of
   individuals and businesses.

   The Industry and University Programs Area is a primary DOE vehicle for
   funding research and development partnerships with the public and
   private sectors to introduce new technologies into the programs managed
   by DOE's Office of Science and Technology.

   DOE uses several mechanisms under the above Programs Area and otherwise
   to invite the private sector to participate in its technology research
   and development programs. These include Cooperative Research and
   Development Agreements (CRADAs) for collaborative R&D with non-federal
   partners, and procurements for technology development under Program
   Research and Development Announcements (PRDAs) and Research Opportunity
   Announcements (ROAs). The Small Business Technology Transfer Program is
   a special program through which small businesses may participate in the
   above programs. DOE also is one of 11 federal agencies involved in the
   Small Business Innovation Research Program, administered by the Small
   Business Administration.

   CRADAs are agreements between a DOE or other federal R&D laboratory and
   any non-federal source to conduct cooperative R&D that is consistent
   with the laboratory's mission. The partner may provide funds,
   facilities, people, or other resources. DOE provides the partner with
   access to facilities and expertise; external participants receive no
   federal funds. Rights to inventions and other intellectual property are
   negotiated between the laboratory and the participant.

   PRDAs are program announcements which solicit a broad mix of advanced
   development and demonstration proposals. A PRDA requests proposals for
   a wide range of technical solutions to specific EM problem areas.
   Multiple awards, which may have distinct approaches or concepts, are
   generally made.

   The ROA seeks advanced research and technologies for a broad scope of
   cleanup needs and supports applied research ranging from concept
   feasibility to full-scale testing. Each ROA is open continuously for a
   full year following the date of issue and includes a partial
   procurement set-aside for small businesses.

   Developers and vendors of innovative technologies interested in more
   information about DOE's technology development efforts should contact
   the DOE's Center for Environmental Management Information, toll-free,
   at 800-736-3282.

   Technology Focus Areas

   DOE recognizes that DOE cleanups provide an opportunity for developers
   of innovative technologies. DOE's technology-related research and
   development activities target five "Focus Areas" that represent key
   remediation and waste management problems within the DOE complex. Five
   areas for the development of cross-cutting technologies also have been
   established.

   Each Focus Area includes specific categories of technologies that
   require research and development. These are:

   Subsurface Contaminants Focus Area, which is developing technologies to
   address environmental problems associated with hazardous and
   radioactive contaminants in soil and groundwater that exist throughout
   the DOE complex, including radionuclides, heavy metals, and dense,
   nonaqueous phase liquids. Numerous contaminant plumes have contaminated
   soil and groundwater. Some of these contaminants have migrated from the
   numerous landfills at DOE facilities, and SCFA is responsible for
   supplying technologies for the remediation of radioactive and hazardous
   buried waste, as well as for developing new or alternative technologies
   for in situ stabilization and nonintrusive characterization of these
   sites. Technology developed within this specialty area will provide
   effective methods to contain contaminant plumes and innovative
   technologies for remediating contaminated soils and groundwater, with
   emphasis on in situ technologies to minimize waste disposal costs and
   potential worker exposure.

   Mixed Waste Characterization, Treatment, and Disposal Focus Area, which
   planned to conduct a minimum of three pilot-scale demonstrations of
   mixed waste treatment systems, using actual mixed waste, by 1997.

   Radioactive Tank Waste Remediation Focus Area, which has concentrated
   on four DOE installations where most DOE underground storage tanks are
   located.

   Facility Deactivation, Decontamination and Material Disposal Focus
   Area, which is in the process of selecting a site for a full-scale
   demonstration of facility decommissioning technology with an emphasis
   on the recycling of contaminated building materials for reuse within
   the DOE complex.

   Cross-cutting technologies are defined as those which overlap the
   boundaries of Focus Areas, and technologies developed in these areas
   will be used in Focus Area testing and evaluations programs wherever
   they are applicable. These areas are: Characterization, Monitoring, and
   Sensor Technology; Efficient Separations and Processing; Robotics;
   Innovative Investment; and Pollution Prevention.

   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Cleanup Programs

   Hazardous Waste Cleanup Sites

   The Superfund program for the cleanup of closed or abandoned hazardous
   waste sites is administered by EPA under the Comprehensive
   Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). Since
   1980, the primary responsibility for site cleanups has shifted from EPA
   to responsible parties. Currently, almost 75% of all cleanups are being
   implemented by responsible parties, with EPA or state oversight.

   Superfund emphasizes remedies that include the use of hazardous waste
   treatment technologies. The use of innovative technologies for
   Superfund cleanup has been increasing. Innovative treatment
   technologies currently account for more than half of the treatment
   technologies selected for controlling waste sources.

   EPA has an active research and demonstration program for innovative
   cleanup technologies. EPA's primary mechanisms for promotion of
   innovative technologies for site remediation are testing/verification
   programs such as the Superfund Innovative Technology Evaluation (SITE)
   Program and the Environmental Technology Verification (ETV) Program.
   EPA sponsors other interagency technology development programs and
   initiatives.

   Remedies have not yet been selected for hundreds of sites on the NPL.
   In addition, EPA estimates that 80% of future sites (either on the NPL
   or otherwise requiring remediation) will require remediation of
   contaminated ground water, 74% will require soil remediation, 15%
   sediments remediation, and 10% sludge treatment. The data available on
   these sites indicate the types and extent of treatment technology
   applications needed in the future:
     * Volatile organic compounds are the most common contaminants,
       followed by metals and semi-volatile organic compounds.
     * Chlorinated VOCs are the most common organic contaminant, followed
       by other VOCs, PCBs, PAHs, and phenols.
     * The most common metal is lead, followed by chromium, arsenic, and
       cadmium.

   Based on contaminant occurrence and historical technology trends, some
   general observations can be made about the potential Superfund market
   for specific technologies. These observations do not necessarily
   consider several other important factors in remedy selection, such as
   federal and state cleanup standards, competing technologies, other site
   characteristics, and public acceptance.
     * Based on current trends, at least 30% of the Superfund sites will
       implement innovative technologies for some degree of source
       control. Innovative technology use should grow as more cost and
       performance data become available.
     * The use of SVE technologies for all types of VOCs is expected to
       continue at current levels, and may even increase.
     * Thermal desorption for the treatment of VOCs and PCBs may increase.
     * The selection of bioremediation at Superfund sites may increase.
     * Alternatives to incineration for the treatment of SVOCs are in
       demand.
     * Treatment of metals in soil represents a potentially large, but
       untapped, market for innovative treatment.
     * New in situ ground water treatment technologies are in great
       demand. Pump-and-treat technologies often cannot achieve desired
       cleanup goals.

   RCRA Corrective Action Sites

   Approximately 5,100 hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal
   facilities (TSDFs) may be subject to corrective action under the
   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). The facility owners or
   operators are responsible for the necessary corrective action, with
   oversight by EPA or a state.

   Between 1,500 and 3,500 of the regulated TSDFs will require corrective
   action. A wide variety of wastes, many of which are similar to those
   found at Superfund sites, will require corrective action. Some of the
   most prevalent wastes include corrosive and ignitable wastes, heavy
   metals, organic solvents, electroplating waste, and waste oil.

   About half of all RCRA corrective action facilities use off-site
   disposal remedies and half use innovative treatment. Of the innovative
   technologies, about one-third each are SVE, in situ bioremediation, and
   above-ground treatment, primarily bioremediation.

   Underground Storage Tank Sites

   Underground storage tanks (USTs) containing petroleum products or
   hazardous chemicals are also regulated under RCRA. Tank owners are
   responsible for remediation under state UST programs. Major factors
   concerning UST site remediation include the following:
     * As of 1995, approximately 306,000 UST sites require cleanup. Of
       these, 131,000 sites have completed cleanups, leaving a universe of
       170,000 requiring some level of cleanup. An additional 100,000
       releases are expected by 2000. There is an average of almost three
       tanks per site. Per site cleanup costs range from $10,000 to
       $125,000 for soil remediation and $100,000 to $1 million for ground
       water remediation. At an average cost of $125,000, the potential
       UST market could reach $34 billion.
     * Approximately 98% of USTs contain petroleum products and 2% contain
       hazardous materials.
     * About 68% of UST cleanups use innovative technology. For sites
       contaminated with petroleum, landfilling is used most frequently at
       sites (one-third), followed by natural attenuation, biopiles, soil
       vacuum extraction,landfarming, and thermal desorption. For sites
       with ground water contamination, natural attenuation is the most
       common remedy, followed by pump-and-treat, air sparging, and in
       situ bioremediation.
     __________________________________________________________________

               FEDERAL SITE REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                             ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

   Interagency R&D Assistance Programs

   Rapid Commercialization Initiative

   Coordinating Agency: U.S. Department of Commerce

   Participating Agencies: U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of
   Energy, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, California EPA, Western
   Governors' Association, Southern States Energy Board

   The Rapid Commercialization Initiative (RCI), an interagency effort
   coordinated by the U.S. Department of Commerce, fosters cooperative
   interaction of the private sector, states, and Federal agencies to help
   bring environmental technologies to market more rapidly and
   efficiently. RCI acts as a gateway to other federal agency programs
   that provide opportunities for environmental technology demonstration,
   verification, and transfer. RCI provides in-kind assistance for
   selected companies with commercially-ready environmental technologies
   in four categories: avoidance; control; monitoring and assessment; and
   remediation and restoration.

   The primary goal of RCI is to provide services to industry that help
   lower three key barriers to commercialization:
    1. finding sites for full-scale technology demonstrations;
    2. evaluating and verifying technical performance and the cost of
       performance of technologies;
    3. promoting regulatory acceptance of verified data and expediting the
       permitting process.

   The selection of technologies for participation in RCI programs centers
   on two criteria:
     * The technology addresses environmental and market needs, with a
       focus on solutions to private sector needs and added consideration
       for application to public sector environmental problems.
     * There is a clear path to commercialization and the technology is
       only a few, final steps from commercialization, such that testing,
       evaluation and verification will complete the process.

   Marketing, financing, or production assistance are not available under
   RCI. Exemptions from federal laws and regulations also are not
   available under RCI. Participants in RCI are selected through program
   announcements and an intensive peer-review process that examines both
   technical and business soundness.

   Contact:
   Stanley Chanesman
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   H4418
   Washington, DC 20230
   202-482-08250

   Website: http://rci.gnet.org/

   Small Business Innovative Research Program/Small Business Technology
   Transfer Research Program

   Coordinating Agency: U.S. Small Business Administration

   Participating Agencies: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S.
   Department of Energy, U.S. Department of Defense, others

   The Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) Program is a multi-media
   assistance program designed to assist and promote U.S.-owned high
   technology companies with 500 or fewer employees. SBIR activities are
   overseen by the Small Business Administration. Funding is provided to
   companies through grants and contracts awarded by SBIR program offices
   in 11 Federal agencies. Each agency offers at least one SBIR program
   solicitation annually that specifies the types of research to be
   funded.

   SBIR is a three-step grant and contract program. Phase I grants and
   contracts are awarded in amounts of $60,000 to $100,000 each for
   technology feasibility studies that can last up to six months. Only
   Phase I recipients are eligible for Phase II awards. Phase II grants
   and contracts can last from one to two years of principal research and
   development, and range from $150,000 to $750,000. Phase III funding
   assistance is provided either through commercial application with
   additional funding from the private sector, or through non-SBIR funding
   provided by the participating agency for research and development in
   areas of particular interest to the agency.

   The Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR) expands funding
   opportunities in the federal innovation research and development arena.
   Under STTR, a specific percentage of federal R&D funding for five
   agencies (including DoD and DOE) is reserved for awards to small
   business and nonprofit research institution partners. These agencies
   designate R&D topics and accept proposals. Small businesses must meet
   certain eligibility criteria (similar to SBIR) to participate in the
   STTR Program.

   Following submission of proposals, agencies make STTR awards based on
   small business/nonprofit research institution qualification, degree of
   innovation, and future market potential. Small businesses that receive
   awards or grants then begin a three-phase program. Phase I is the
   start-up phase, with awards of up to $100,000 for approximately one
   year fund the exploration of the scientific, technical, and commercial
   feasibility of an idea or technology. Phase II awards of up to
   $500,000, for as long as two years, to expand on Phase I results.
   During this period, the R&D work is performed and the developer begins
   to consider commercial potential. Only Phase I award winners are
   considered for Phase II. Phase III is the period during which Phase II
   innovation moves from the laboratory into the marketplace. No STTR
   funds support this phase. The small business must find funding in the
   private sector or other non-STTR federal agency funding.

   Contact:
   U.S. Small Business Administration
   Office of Technology
   409 Third Street, SW
   Washington, DC 20416
   (202) 205-6450

   Website: http://www.sba.gov/SBIR/

   U.S. Department of Defense R&D Assistance Programs

   Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence

   The Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE) has an
   Innovative Technology Program that identifies and field tests
   innovative site characterization, remediation, and pollution prevention
   technologies, with an emphasis on technologies that save time and money
   and facilitate compliance with air, soil, and water regulations.

   Special areas of interest within the Innovative Technology Program
   include:
     * remediation technologies to treat fuels, chlorinated solvents,
       pesticides, PCBs, and heavy metals;
     * vapor phase capture and treatment;
     * cost effective site characterization;
     * stripping and removal of protective coatings;
     * parts cleaning and degreasing; and
     * industrial process sludge treatment.

   Successful projects have been based on sound scientific principles and
   offer widespread applicability to Air Force sites and significant cost
   savings.

   Contact:
   Mary Urey
   Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE)
   Technology Transfer Division
   8001 Arnold Drive
   Brooks AFB, TX 78235-5357
   210-536-4419

   Website: http://www.afcee.brooks.af.mil

   Environmental Security Technology Certification Program

   ESTCP's goal is to demonstrate and validate promising, innovative
   technologies that target the Department of Defense's (DoD's) most
   urgent environmental needs. These technologies provide a return on
   investment through cost savings and improved efficiency. ESTCP's
   strategy is to select lab-proven technologies with broad DoD and market
   application. These projects are aggressively moved to the field for
   rigorous trials that document their cost, performance, and market
   potential. To ensure that the demonstrated technologies have a real
   impact, ESTCP incorporates these players in the development and
   execution of each technology. ESTCP demonstrations--
     * Address real DoD environmental needs.
     * Significantly reduce costs and risks and expedite implementation.
     * Document and validate the cost and performance of new technologies
       for DoD end-users and the regulatory community.

   The ESTCP Process (below) ensures approved technologies meet DoD
   environmental challenges:
     * DoD environmental requirements are specified.
     * ESTCP requests proposals.
     * Rigorous and expert scientific reviews are made.
     * ESTCP projects are selected in cleanup, compliance, and pollution
       prevention.
     * Technologies are demonstrated and evaluated at DoD sites.
     * Cost and performance data are validated.
     * Effective and affordable technologies are transferred across DoD.

   Contact:
   Dr. Jeffrey Marqusee
   c/o ESTCP Program Office
   1725 Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 1100
   Arlington, VA 22202
   (703) 412-7688
   E-MAIL: estcp@bah.com
   or
   Dr. Jeffrey Marqusee
   Director, ESTCP
   901 N. Stuart Street, Suite 303
   Arlington, VA 22203
   (703) 696-2120
   E-MAIL: marqusj@acq.osd.mil

   Website: http://www.estcp.org

   National Environmental Technology Test Sites (NETTS) Program

   The National Environmental Technology Test Sites (NETTS) Program
   sponsored by SERDP, is an environmental technology testing and
   evaluation program that provides locations, facilities, and support for
   applied research demonstration, and evaluation of innovative cleanup
   and characterization technologies that are candidates for Installation
   Restoration efforts at DoD facilities. NETTS, which is managed under
   the SERDP Cleanup Program, promotes technology transfer from research
   to proof-of principle demonstration and facilitates expeditious
   transfer of technologies between government agencies and the private
   sector.

   There are currently four DoD SERDP NETTS Test Sites and one NETTS
   technology support center which primarily focus on the
   proof-of-principle demonstrations of cleanup technologies. They consist
   of:
     * Dover NETTS Test Site: The Dover National Test Site (DNTS) at Dover
       AFB provides sites where research can be conducted on the
       transport, detection, monitoring, and cleanup of solvent and fuel
       contaminants in the subsurface. DNTS provides a unique opportunity
       for conducting experimental, contained releases of dense nonaqueous
       phase liquids (DNAPLs). DNTS also provides other well-characterized
       contaminated plume sites and support services.
     * McClellan NETTS Test Site: The Air Force also manages a Chlorinated
       Hydrocarbon Remedial Demonstration Site at McClellan AFB, which
       provides areas to evaluate investigative technologies and
       remediation technologies for chlorinated hydrocarbons and inorganic
       (metal) contamination in soil and groundwater.
     * Naval Facilities Engineering Service Center NETTS Test Site: The
       Environmental Technology Demonstration Site at Port Hueneme,
       California, provides in situ and ex situ locations to demonstrate
       advanced fuel hydrocarbon remediation technologies for treatment of
       Navy specific fuels contamination in soil and groundwater. Areas
       include a soil stockpile facility contaminated with fuels; an
       11-acre gasoline station plume; and underground storage tank and
       spill areas.
     * National Center for Integrated Bioremediation Research and
       Development (NCIBRD), Oscoda, MI (Former Wurtsmith AFB NETTS Test
       Site): The National Center for Integrated Bioremediation Research
       and Development at Wurtsmith AFB, controlled field test-bed
       facility for investigations to support the design and engineering
       of integrated bioremediation systems. This project focuses on in
       situ bioremediation of surface soils, and other organic substances.
     * EPA NETTS Technical Support Center: EPA also co-sponsors the
       Consortium for Site Characterization Technology, established by the
       National Exposure Research Laboratory/Characterization Research
       Division, Las Vegas, Nevada, which identifies, demonstrates,
       evaluates, verifies, and transfers data about innovative
       monitoring, measurement, and site characterization technologies.
       Planning assistance is offered to developers to ensure verified
       data collection and to extend the application of new technologies
       to other sites.

   Contact:
   NETTS Principal Investigator:
   Mr. Jack Robertson
   HydroGeoLogic, Inc.
   1155 Herndon Parkway
   Suite 900
   Herndon, VA 22070
   (703) 736-4560
   E-MAIL: jbr@hgl.com

   Individual Test Locations:

                                 Air Force:
                          Dover National Test Site
                            Mr. Steve Farrington
                        Air Force Research Laboratory
                               P.O. Box 02063
                         909 Arnold Drive Extension
                          Dover AFB, DE 19902-6600
                            PHONE: (302) 677-4100
                          E-MAIL: sfarring@ara.com
                                 Air Force:
                     Chlorinated Hydrocarbon Remediation
                                Technologies
                               Mr. Tim Chapman
                                 SM-ALC/EMR
                          5050 Dudley Blvd, Suite 3
                        McClellan AFB, CA 95652-1389
                       PHONE: (916) 643-0830, ext. 412
               E-MAIL: chapman.timothy@email.mcclellan.af.mil
                                    Navy:
             Advanced Fuel Hydrocarbon Remediation Technologies
                               Mr. Ernest Lory
                Naval Facilities Engineering Service Center,
                                   ESC 411
                              560 Center Drive
                           Port Hueneme, CA 93043
                            PHONE: (805) 982-1299
                        E-MAIL: elory@nfesc.navy.mil
                                    EPA:
                     Site Characterization Technologies
                                 Eric Koglin
                            U.S. EPA NERL, CRD-LV
                               P.O. Box 93478
                          Las Vegas, NV 89193-2478
                               (702) 798-2432
                     E-MAIL: koglin.eric@epamail.epa.gov
                                    EPA:
                     In-situ Bioremediation Technologies
                          Dr. Michael J. Barcelona
              Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
                            IST Building -- 1221
                    University of Michigan, North Campus
                          2200 Bonisteel Boulevard
                          Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2099
                            PHONE: (313) 763-6512
                       E-MAIL: mikebar@engin.umich.edu

   Website: http://www.hgl.com/serdp/netts/default.html

   Naval Environmental Leadership Program

   The Naval Environmental Leadership Program (NELP) seeks to expedite
   cleanup and compliance at two Naval installations (Naval Air Station
   North Island, San Diego, California, and Naval Station Mayport,
   Jacksonville, Florida) using innovative technologies and focused
   management. The two NELP bases serve as prototypes for identification,
   development, testing, implementation, evaluation, and refinement of new
   initiatives and export of successful applications for implementation as
   part of the Navy's Environmental Management Program.

   Interested public or private sector parties in possession of innovative
   technologies that may be implemented at full-scale to address
   environmental problems at the two NELP bases and that address problems
   of concern in the Navy-wide environmental management program may be
   eligible to participate in NELP. Innovative technologies are selected
   and included in the Program through a variety of mechanisms. The NELP
   Initiative solicits proposals for innovative technologies via the
   Commerce Business Daily.

   NELP emphasizes full-scale technology implementation to solve an
   environmental problem at one of the NELP bases. It is not an R&D
   program; however, the NELP Initiative may serve as a host for
   technology demonstrations if the developer requires a demonstration
   site, once the NELP bases meets the requirements for a successful
   demonstration, and funding is provided by the developer or other
   source. Successful demonstrations will lead to full-scale
   implementation at the NELP base and within the execution of the Navy's
   Installation Restoration Program.

   Contact:
   Ted Zagrobelny
   Naval Facilities Engineering Command*
   200 Stovall (Code ENV-CL)
   Alexandria, VA 22332-2300
   703-325-8176
   * effective August 1998:
   Naval Facilities Engineering Command
   Washington Navy Yard
   Building 33
   901 M Street SE
   Washington, DC 20374

   Website: http://www.nasni.navy.mil/nelp/

   Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program

   Coordinating Agency: U.S. Department of Defense

   Participating Agencies: U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Environmental
   Protection Agency

   The Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program (SERDP) is
   a multiagency program funded through the Department of Defense. SERDP
   responds to environmental needs of DoD, along with those it shares with
   the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and
   other federal government agencies.

   SERDP seeks to identify, develop, demonstrate, and transition
   technology for four thrust areas. The four thrust areas correspond to
   the four pillars of DoD's Environmental Quality Program: environmental
   cleanup technology is one of the thrust areas. Specific objectives of
   the cleanup technology thrust area focus on conducting research and
   development to achieve more effective and efficient environmental
   characterization, assessment, monitoring, and cleanup of soil,
   sediment, groundwater, surface water, and structures contaminated by
   past defense practices with hazardous materials (including unexploded
   ordnance), and toxic substances. The cleanup technology area also seeks
   to:
     * develop cost-effective methods to determine fate, transport, and
       effects of contaminants related to defense activities;
     * develop risk-based modeling methods for establishing cleanup
       priorities; and
     * facilitate transfer of technology to field use by means of the
       proof-of-principle demonstration of R&D projects, particularly, at
       the SERDP National Environmental Technology Test Sites.

   On an annual basis, SERDP solicits proposals from the federal and
   private sector in the areas of site characterization, monitoring,
   remediation, and risk assessment. Each year specific statements of
   needs are issued. For current topics of interest and information on how
   to become involved, please see the SERDP web site.

   Contact:
   Dr. Femi A. Ayorinde
   SERDP Program Office
   901 N. Stuart Street, Suite 303
   Arlington, VA 22203
   (703) 696-2118
   E-MAIL: ayorinfe@acq.osd.mil

   Website: http://www.hg1.com/serdp

   Unexploded Ordnance Technology Demonstration Program

   JPG Phases I, II, III and Live Site Projects

   The Congressionally funded Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technology
   Demonstration Program has established technology performance baselines
   by demonstrating and highlighting the strengths and capabilities of
   numerous UXO technologies.

   The U.S. Army Environmental Center (USAEC), in partnership with the
   Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology Division, has conducted
   over 60 demonstrations of UXO characterization and remediation
   technology. Phase I, Phase II and Phase III were conducted in 1994,
   1995 and 1996 at the U.S. Army Jefferson Proving Ground in Madison, IN.
   These demonstrations were performed on a controlled test site
   containing a known baseline of emplaced, inert ordnance.

   Additional technology demonstrations were conducted during 1995 at five
   sites located throughout the United States that contained live
   ordnance. Congress has funded a Phase IV effort with demonstrations to
   be conducted in the summer of FY98. The Program has been structured to
   demonstrate and evaluate systems which are used for detection,
   identification and remediation of UXO.

   Program Objectives and Benefits

   The primary objective of this demonstration program has been to
   evaluate, establish and advance UXO technology performance. Prior to
   this, no broad technology performance baseline existed. A framework has
   been established to better understand and assess UXO technology.
   Additionally, Program demonstrators have benefited from target data
   feedback; they are better able to undertake or continue system
   improvements. The primary focus of the Phase IV effort, to be conducted
   during the summer of 1998, is to advance target discrimination and
   classification techniques.

   Available Reports

   Details of the multi-phase demonstration programs can be found in
   published reports. The most recent document is entitled: UXO Technology
   Demonstration Program at Jefferson Proving Ground, Phase III, April
   1997. These reports and additional information can be obtained by
   contacting USAEC's hotline or by e-mail.

   Technology Capabilities

   Results of the most recent Phase III demonstrations show that overall
   technology detection rates have improved since the initial Phase I
   Demonstration Program (1994). Phase III results show that
   state-of-the-art technology is capable of detecting a substantial
   portion of emplaced ordnance (over 95%). However, significant
   technology limitations still exist.

   There has been no substantial change in the ability of demonstrators to
   discriminate UXO from non-UXO material (clutter). This deficiency is a
   major cost driver in UXO characterization due to additional data
   analysis requirements and subsequent unnecessary excavation. During the
   Phase IV demonstration effort, the government is partnering with a
   select group of demonstrators to advance the ability to characterize
   and discriminate UXO. Remote excavation of UXO has been shown to be
   feasible; the systems were able to locate, excavate and handle the UXO;
   however, they were slow and inefficient.

   The Future

   The UXO Technology Demonstration Program has highlighted the
   capabilities and limitations of UXO technologies. Demonstrators show
   continued improvement in detection performance. But because there has
   been no substantial improvement in the ability to discriminate UXO from
   the clutter, focused efforts are needed. The Phase IV effort, currently
   underway, will capitalize upon the previous UXO technological
   investments by focusing on target discrimination and reduction of false
   alarms rates. This will provide the government with economical and
   effective technology that will significantly reduce the overall cost of
   UXO clearance, by reducing the number of anomalies which must be found.

   Contact:
   U.S. Army Environmental Hotline
   (800) USA-3845, DSN 585-1699

   Website: http://aec-www.apgea.army.mil:8080/prod/usaec/et/uxo/jpgfs.htm

   U.S. Army Environmental Center

   The Environmental Technology Transfer and Technology Demonstration
   Branches within the Pollution Prevention and Environmental Technology
   Division (P2&ETD) develop, demonstrate, and deliver tools to help the
   Army sustain readiness, protect resources, and improve soldiers'
   quality of life. These programs enable the Army to test and implement
   cost-effective technologies in pollution prevention, conservation,
   compliance, and restoration. From cleanup devices to better ways of
   doing business, these innovations protect the environment while
   supporting military operations, installation management, and material
   development.

   P2&ETD assesses Army environmental needs and works with researchers and
   future users to adapt ideas. P2&ETD searches government labs or finds
   "off the shelf" commercial tools with potential military application.
   P2&ETD produces "real world" cost and performance data by testing
   lab-proven technologies in field demonstrations. P2&ETD helps transfer
   successful products to the Army community, tracking technology
   performance and user needs even after the demonstration.

   P2&ETD's guidance and technical support programs address the main
   elements of the Army's environmental program, meeting specific user
   needs on pollution prevention, conservation, compliance, and
   restoration, as well as specialized programs in SCAPS, UXO, and Range
   XXI.

   Technology is a major weapon in the Army's efforts to defend the nation
   and protect its environment. Through these programs, USAEC gives the
   Army ready access to the most effective and affordable environmental
   tools.

   Contact:
   Mr. James I. Arnold, Jr.
   U.S. Army Environmental Center
   Attn: SFIM-AEC-ET (Arnold)
   APG, MD, 21010-5401
   Fax: 410-612-6836

   Website: http://aec-www.apgea.army.mil:8080/prod/aechome.htm

   U.S. Department of Energy R&D Assistance Programs

   Industry and University Programs Area

   The mission of the Industry and University Programs Area is to identify
   and provide development support for technologies that show promise in
   addressing DOE's Environmental Management needs, but require
   proof-of-principle experimentation and already proven technologies in
   other fields that require critical path experimentation to demonstrate
   feasibility for adaptation to specific EM needs.

   The underlying objective is to ensure that private industry, other
   Federal agencies, and universities are major participants in developing
   and deploying new and emerging technologies. Tools used to achieve this
   objective include Program Research and Development Announcements
   (PRDAs), Research Opportunity Announcements (ROAs), Cooperative
   Research and Development Agreements (CRADAs), other grants, and
   inter-agency agreements (IAGs).

   Contact:
   Jeffrey Walker
   U.S. Department of Energy
   19901 Germantown Road
   Germantown, MD 20874-1290
   301-903-7966
   301-903-7457 fax

   Program Research & Development Announcements/Research Opportunity
   Announcements

   Program R&D Announcements (PRDAs) and Research Opportunity
   Announcements (ROAs) are DOE's major assistance vehicles for developing
   technologies. PRDAs solicit a broad mix of proposals where R&D,
   including demonstration, testing, and evaluation, is required within
   broadly defined areas of interest. DOE may issue a PRDA in response to
   an individual program need such as the cleanup of a particular
   contaminant at a specific site. Multiple awards for proposals, which
   may have varied approaches or concepts, are generally made. Numerous
   PRDAs may be issued each year.

   ROAs solicit industry and academic proposals throughout the year
   ("rolling admissions") for potential contracts in applied research.
   ROAs support research efforts for the development of technologies with
   potential application in the EM program. A proposed technology should
   improve DOE's capabilities in areas such as in situ remediation;
   detection, characterization, and monitoring; efficient separations
   technology for radioactive waste; and robotics. ROAs are published in
   the Commerce Business Daily. The program includes some set-asides for
   small businesses. DOE anticipates making 25-30 awards through an active
   ROA at its Morgantown facility.

   For information on the full range of DOE/EM assistance programs,
   contact the EM Central Point of Contact (CPOC). The CPOC is a referral
   service that expedites and monitors private sector interaction with EM.
   The CPOC can identify links between technologies and program needs and
   connect potential partners with an extensive network of Headquarters
   and field program contacts.

   Developers can gain more information on DOE's business and research
   opportunities by obtaining the U.S. Department of Energy Environmental
   Cleanup Technology Development Program Business and Research
   Opportunities Guide (DOE/EM-0115P). The Guide can be obtained from the
   National Technical Information Service (NTIS).

   Contact:
   EM Central Point of Contact
   U.S. Department of Energy
   19901 Germantown Road
   Germantown, MD 20874-1290
   800-845-2096
   301-903-7238 fax

   For information on ROA awards through the Morgantown Energy Technology
   Center:

   Contact:
   Thomas Martin
   304-291-4087

   TechCon

   TechCon is a DOE program developed to increase the use of commercially
   available technologies at DOE cleanup sites with an emphasis on
   technologies that have shown superior performance characteristics.
   TechCon's mission is to identify, screen, and support the
   implementation of available environmental technologies from both the
   private and public sector in the U.S. as well as from international
   sources.

   The TechCon Program works with sites to identify clean-up needs, finds
   commercially available technologies and services that have proven
   performance capabilities, matches technologies to needs at DOE sites,
   and delivers information on these technologies to site personnel. By
   connecting representatives of technology companies with those at
   remediation sites, TechCon promotes the use of available technologies
   and resolves barriers to their field application.

   A key to TechCon's success is improving communication among companies,
   site representatives, and regulators. To that end, TechCon has
   instituted an electronic mail discussion list that is hosted at ANL.
   With over 60 members, including DOE, EPA, site contractor, and
   technology company personnel, this e-mail list facilitates
   dissemination of information and can expedite the matching of
   technology needs with commercially available technologies.

   Contacts:

   Dale Pflug
   Argonne National Laboratory
   9700 South Cass Avenue
   Argonne, IL 60439
   630-252-6682
   630-252-6414 fax
   dpflug@anl.gov             Duane Deonigi
                              Pacific Northwest Laboratory
                              P.O. Box 999
                              Mail Stop K8-04
                              Richland, WA 99352
                              509-372-4278
                              509-372-4394 fax

   Website: http://www.ead.anl.gov/~techcon/index.html

   Technology Development Initiative

   DOE's Technology Deployment Initiative (TDI) seeks to:
     * achieve multiple deployments of cleanup technologies and processes
       that expedite DOE's environmental management effort,
     * obtain third party validation of cost savings,
     * facilitate the reinvestment of cost savings to increase
       participation in the program, and
     * break down barriers to the implementation of new technologies.

   Under TDI, technologies selected for participation and deployment
   support DOE's environmental management mission and provide for multiple
   applications. Applications include a Pricing Proposal that compares an
   estimated cost with that of a baseline technology; the technology
   should accelerate or reduce the cost of that referenced baseline, or
   both. Applications must also include a commitment from the proposing
   DOE site manager. TDI funding is for deployment of commercial-ready
   technologies, rather than demonstrations.

   Ranking criteria for applicants are divided into four areas:
   impact/technical approach; business management approach;
   stakeholder/regulatory management approach; and cost. Incentives for
   developers to participate in TDI include the availability of funds to
   accelerate deployment and cleanup, increased visibility for the
   technologies through deployment and the generation of validated cost
   savings, multiple state acceptance of the technology, and the
   opportunity for reinvestment of cost savings.

   Contacts:

   TDI Team
   Jeff Walker - DOE-HQ
   Kurt Gerdes - DOE-HQ
   Jihad Aljayoushi - DOE-ID
   Julie Conner - DOE-ID
   Susan Prestwich - DOE-ID
   E-MAIL: tdi@wpi.org      To send regular mail to the TDI program:
                            (Contact Name)
                            TDI Support Office
                            502 South Woodruff
                            Idaho Falls, ID 83401
                            Fax: (208) 528-2401

   Website: http://wastenot.inel.gov/tdi

   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency R&D Assistance Programs

   Environmental Technology Verification Program

   Over the years, EPA has evaluated technologies to determine their
   effectiveness in preventing, controlling, and cleaning up pollution.
   EPA has expanded these efforts by instituting the Environmental
   Technology Verification (ETV) Program to verify the performance of a
   larger universe of innovative technical solutions to problems that
   threaten human health or the environment. ETV accelerates the entrance
   of new environmental technologies into the marketplace by supplying
   technology buyers and developers, consulting engineers, States, and EPA
   Regions with high quality data on the performance of new technologies.

   ETV expands past verification efforts, such as the SITE program for
   remediation technologies, into multiple pilot areas. In these pilot
   areas, EPA utilizes the expertise of partner "verification
   organizations" to design efficient processes for conducting performance
   tests of innovative technologies. EPA selects its partners from both
   the public and private sectors including Federal laboratories, States,
   universities, and private sector facilities. Verification organizations
   will oversee and report verification activities based on testing and
   quality assurance protocols developed with input from major
   stakeholders/customer groups associated with the technology area.

   Verification under ETV means confirmation of the performance
   characteristics of a commercial-ready environmental technologies
   through the evaluation of objective and quality assured data. ETV's
   targeted customers are:
     * Technology users and purchasers
     * Technology enablers
          + permitters, regulators
          + consulting engineers
     * Technology developers and vendors

   Each pilot will announce its intention to begin accepting technologies
   for verification in the Commerce Business Daily and in the trade press.
   The pilot areas include the Consortium for Site Characterization
   Technology. By the year 2000, EPA envisions that the ETV program will
   be comprised of numerous public and private testing entities covering
   all major classes of environmental technology.

   Contact:
   Penelope Hansen
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   TCS/NRMRL/ORD (8301)
   401 M St., SW
   Washington, DC 20460
   202-260-2600

   Website: http://www.epa.gov/etv/

   National Center for Environmental Research and Quality Assurance

   The EPA National Center for Environmental Research and Quality
   Assurance (NCERQA), administered by the EPA Office of Research and
   Development, has primary responsibility to issue and manage research
   grant and fellowship programs designed to expand EPA's science and
   technology base and the pool of qualified environmental professionals.
   NCERQA also serves as EPA's focal point on quality assurance and peer
   review. NCERQA is comprised of four divisions:
     * Environmental Engineering Research
     * Environmental Sciences Research
     * Quality Assurance
     * Peer Review

   The Environmental Engineering Research Division (EERD) is responsible
   for planning, administering, and managing the following programs:
     * grants for research projects and centers in the engineering
       disciplines relevant to public health and ecosystem protection;
     * EPA's participation in the Small Business Innovation Research
       Program and the Strategic Environmental Research and Development
       Program; and
     * coordination of ORD efforts in support of the EPA-wide Common Sense
       Initiative.

   Contact:
   Steve Lingle
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   EERD/NCERQA (8722)
   401 M St., SW
   Washington, DC 20460
   202-260-4073
   202-260-4524
   E-MAIL: lingle.stephen@epamail.epa.gov

   Website: http://es.inel.gov/ncerqa/

   Remediation Technologies Development Forum

   The Remediation Technologies Development Forum (RTDF) was established
   in 1992 by EPA to identify ways of working together with industry to
   solve complex hazardous waste remediation problems. The RTDF is open to
   all interested parties and has grown to a consortium of partners from
   private industry, government agencies, and academia who share the
   common goal of developing more effective, less costly hazardous waste
   characterization and treatment technologies. RTDF partnerships
   undertake research, development, demonstration, testing, and evaluation
   efforts to achieve common cleanup goals.

   The RTDF advances the development of cost-effective technologies for
   the remediation of hazardous wastes, and works to achieve these goals
   by:

     * identifying priority remediation technology development needs;
     * establishing and overseeing action teams to plan and implement
       collaborative research projects to address these needs; and
     * addressing scientific, institutional, and regulatory barriers to
       innovative treatment technologies.

   RTDF members establish self-managed action teams that bring members
   together to work on their highest priority problems. These teams define
   technology research needs, develop and implement research project
   plans, and produce and disseminate scientifically credible results to
   facilitate broad acceptance of the technology.

   EPA facilitates the operation of the Action Teams and the RTDF Steering
   Committee, and contributes its research efforts to the jointly-led
   projects. EPA provides funding for RTDF research activities and Action
   Team meetings. Other federal agencies, industry, and academic
   participants also provide funding, laboratory, and field support for
   Action Team projects. Participants in each Action Team provide funding
   and/or in-kind support for the Team's research efforts.

   RTDF is currently made up of seven Action Teams:

   Bioremediation Consortium
   IINERT Soils-Metals Action Team
   In Situ Flushing Action Team
   Lasagna^TM Consortium
   Permeable Barriers Action Team
   Phytoremediation of Organics
   Sediments Remediation Action Team

   Contacts:
   Robert Olexsey
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   26 West Martin Luther King Dr.
   Cincinnati, OH 45268
   513-569-7861                        Dr. Walter W. Kovalick, Jr.
                                       Technology Innovation Office (5102G)
                                       U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
                                       401 M Street, SW
                                       Washington, DC 20460
                                       703-603-9910

   Website: http://www.rtdf.org

   Superfund Innovative Technology Evaluation Program

   The Superfund Innovative Technology Evaluation Program was established
   by EPA's Offices of Research and Development (ORD) and Solid Waste and
   Emergency Response (OSWER) to promote the development and use of
   innovative technologies to remediate Superfund sites. The SITE Program
   places a special emphasis on demonstrating technologies, including
   support for bench-scale through pilot-scale and field-scale
   demonstrations, and includes reports of cost and performance data. The
   SITE Program consists of three major components to achieve these goals:
   a Demonstration Program; an Emerging Technology Program; and a
   Monitoring and Measurement Technologies Program.

   The Demonstration Program generates performance, engineering, and cost
   data through innovative technology demonstrations. EPA publishes an
   annual solicitation for proposals from developers to demonstrate their
   technologies. Typical demonstrations take place at Superfund sites.
   Under the Program, the cost of the demonstration is split between the
   vendor and EPA. The vendor pays for the operation of the demonstration,
   while EPA pays for all planning, sampling, and analysis. EPA also
   reports the results of the demonstration.

   The Emerging Technology Program supports bench-scale and pilot-scale
   development and testing of innovative treatment technologies. EPA
   publishes an annual solicitation for proposals from developers.

   The Monitoring and Measurement Technologies Program supports the
   development and demonstration of innovative field technologies that
   monitor, or measure hazardous substances.

   Over the years, the SITE Program has completed demonstrations and
   issued reports for over 100 technologies. The advent of environmental
   technology development and commercialization as national priorities in
   the last few years, along with the initiation of other EPA
   environmental technology programs, has led EPA to review and reconsider
   the future role of the SITE Program in the overall federal
   environmental technology strategy. For this reason, participation in
   the SITE Program by new partners has been temporarily suspended.

   Contact:
   Annette Gatchette
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   National Risk Management Research Laboratory
   26 W. Martin Luther King Drive
   Cincinnati, OH 45268
   513-569-7696
     __________________________________________________________________

               FEDERAL SITE REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                            ELECTRONIC DATA BASES

   U.S. Department of Commerce

   National Technical Information Service (NTIS) Bibliographic Data Base

   The National Technical Information Service (NTIS) Bibliographic Data
   Base is a self-supporting agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce and
   is the largest single source for public access to Federally produced
   information. NTIS is the Federal agency charged with collecting and
   distributing Federal scientific, technical, and engineering
   information. The NTIS collection covers current technologies, business
   and management studies, foreign and domestic trade, environment and
   energy, health, social sciences, general statistics, and hundreds of
   other areas. When Federal agencies and their contractors forward
   reports and other items to NTIS, these items are entered into the NTIS
   computerized bibliographic data base and become part of the NTIS
   archive.

   The NTIS bibliographic data base contains data about Federal data and
   software files, U.S. government inventions available for licensing,
   reports on new technologies developed by Federal agencies, Federally
   generated translations, and reports prepared by non-U.S. government
   agencies. An increasing proportion of the data base consists of
   unpublished material originating outside the U.S. Most NTIS records
   include an abstract.

   Contact:
   National Technical Information Service
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   5285 Port Royal Road
   Springfield, VA 22161
   703-487-4650
   703-321-8547 (fax)

   Website: http://www.ntis.gov

                          U.S. Department of Energy

   DOE R&D Project Summaries Web Data Base

   Access to over 12,000 R&D projects currently ongoing within the DOE can
   be found within this application. Projects pertaining to Departmental
   activities in Energy Research, Fossil Energy, Environmental Management,
   and Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, are just some of the R&D
   disciplines found in the database.

   The DOE R&D Project Summaries application, developed by the Office of
   Scientific & Technical Information, contains a subset of the
   Department's FY 1995/1996 R&D holdings. Only projects contained in the
   DOE R&D Tracking Database System with a Funding Mechanism of Managing
   and Operations (M&O), Grant, Contract, Cooperative Agreements
   (Non-CRADA), or Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) are now
   available through this application. Additional R&D information such as
   Work For Others, Lab Directed R&D, or the remaining DOE Only R&D
   information is accessible to Department of Energy entities through the
   R&D Client/Server interface with the appropriate security levels.

   Over 75% of the total Department's R&D holdings are available through
   this Web based application. Project descriptions and other information
   about the projects may be viewed after performing a quick search,
   topical search, or an advanced search.

   Website: http://www.doe.gov/rnd/dbhome.html

   New Technology from DOE

   New Technology from DOE (NTD) contains brief descriptions of Department
   of Energy (DOE) research results that have potential for
   commercialization by United States industries. This data base is the
   centralized source of online information on DOE technical innovations
   and advancements.

   Each NTD record includes a technology description, patent status,
   secondary or spinoff applications, literature citations, DOE laboratory
   and sponsoring information, subject descriptors, and a contact for
   further information. The NTD currently contains 1200 records from 1986
   to the present. It is anticipated that older records dating from 1983
   will be added to the data base.

   Integrated Technical Information System
   U.S. DOE Office of Science and Technical Information
   P.O. Box 62
   Oak Ridge, TN 37831
   615-576-1222

   The data base is available to DOE and its contractors through the
   Integrated Technical Information System (ITIS). Public access is
   provided through the National Technical Information Service's
   Technology Transfer Program.

   ReOpt: Electronic Encyclopedia of Remedial Action Options

   ReOpt provides information about remedial technologies drawn from DOE,
   EPA, and industry sources. ReOpt provides descriptions of over 100
   technologies, breaking the information into categories, including
   application and regulatory information for nearly 850 contaminants.
   ReOpt was developed as part of DOE's Remedial Action Assessment System
   project.

   For each technology, ReOpt contains information for the following
   categories:
   Flow diagram
   Description
   Engineering or Design Parameters
   Contaminant Applicability
   Data Requirements               Associated Technologies
                                   Technical Constraints
                                   Regulatory Constraints
                                   References
                                   Previous Applications

   ReOpt allows users to search by media, contaminant, and the way the
   functional manner in which the user wants to restore the site (such as,
   in situ treatment) to focus the analysis of those technologies
   potentially applicable to the scenario.

   The system is available on diskette for Federal staff and contractors
   under a Limited Government License from the Energy Science and
   Technology Software Center (ESTSC). Others may purchase ReOpt through
   Sierra Geophysics in Kirkland, Washington, (1-800-826-7644, ext. 120).

   Contact:
   Energy Science and Technology Software Center
   615-576-2606
   or
   Janet L. Bryant
   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
   P.O. Box 999
   Richland, WA 99352
   Phone: (509) 375-3765
   Fax: (509) 375-6417
   E-mail: jl_bryant@pnl.gov

   ReOpt FAX Hotline:
   509-375-6417

                    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

   Bioremediation in the Field Search System

   The Bioremediation in the Field Search System (BFSS) provides
   information on waste sites across the country where bioremediation is
   being tested or implemented or has been completed. BFSS users can
   search the database electronically, view data on specific types of
   bioremediation sites, and print reports of selected information.
   Registered users also receive EPA's quarterly Bioremediation in the
   Field bulletin.

   BFSS currently provides information on ex situ and in situ technologies
   at more than 160 bioremediation sites nationwide. The database includes
   full-scale remediation ef
