http://www.nceb.uscourts.gov/q_and_a.htm

   EDNC Bankruptcy Seal

   Home

                                                      Q's & A's
                                                      Flag Line


   Q: Is it permissible that attorneys sign amendments to schedules?
   Q: Should the clerk file a motion without the fee because of a critical
      time issue involved? A motion to extend the time to file a complaint
      objecting to the dischargeability of a debt was presented for filing at
      the last minute. In the motion, the moving party also requested that,
      in the alternative, relief from the stay be granted. There was no fee
      for the stay motion tendered at the time the motion was submitted.
   Q: If the last day for filing complaints objecting the
      dischargeabililty of a debt is a Saturday or Sunday or a legal holiday,
      must a complaint or motion to extend the time to file such a complaint
      be filed on Friday?
   Q: If a case in which installment fees are owing is dismissed, when is
      the filing fee due?
   Q: Is the claims bar date for government agencies the same as for other
      creditors?
   Q: In an adversary proceeding, is there a filing fee for a third-party
      complaint?
   Q: Does a chapter 7 discharge order entered after the death of the
      debtor have to reference that the debtor is no longer living?
   Q: If a corporate debtor files a voluntary petition after an
      involuntary petition was filed against it, is there another fee that
      must be paid for converting the case to a voluntary case?
   Q: May the clerk’s office charge an amendment fee if the debtor makes a
      "front-page" filing (petition and creditor matrix only) and later files
      its schedules and statements. Is the later filing of the schedules and
      statements an amendment to the petition?
   Q: A company has filed for bankruptcy and owes us money. What do we do?
   Q: Do I need an attorney to file bankruptcy?
   Q: How do I get the Bankruptcy removed from my credit report?
   Q: Where can I obtain petition forms?
   Q: How do I get admitted to practice in the Bankruptcy Court?
   Q: Is my debt dischargeable?
   Q: The company for which I worked filed for bankruptcy. How do I get my
      W-2 forms for filing my income tax return?
   Q: Can the Clerk's Office give legal advice?
   Q: How do I know if a debt is secured, unsecured, priority or
      administrative so I can fill out my schedules correctly?
   Q: What does it mean if a case is dismissed?
   Q: What is the proper fee for an adversary proceeding instituted by
      removal from another court?
   Q: An application for leave to appeal was filed, and the clerk's office
      collected a fee of $105 [$5 notice of appeal as required by 28 U.S.C.
      1930(c), $100 for docketing an appeal as required by the Bankruptcy
      Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule] The motion is denied; the clerk's
      office was asked if the fee could be refunded?
   Q: What is the fee for filing a motion to lift stay, or in the
      alternative, a motion to convert the case to a chapter 7?
   Q: What fee should be charged for converting a chapter 13 to a chapter
      7 and for splitting the case?
   Q: What fee should be collected for a case that was closed in 1995 and
      reopened today?
   Q: Does the bankruptcy court pay for a sign language interpreter for a
      §341 meeting of creditors?
   Q: Is there any definition of what a "page" is, which would apply to
      the new per page charge for information obtained on the Internet?


   Thanks for visiting the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District
    of North Carolina's website. We hope you find the information on our
    web page useful. If you have any questions, comments or suggestions,
   please E-mail us! PLEASE NOTE:  Send all case specific inquiries to the
                          party handling the case.
