http://web.pdc.wa.gov/pdf/PDCSCHOOLSFINAL.pdf

   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE COMMISSION 711 Capitol Way Rm. 206, PO Box 40908 *
   Olympia, Washington 98504-0908 * (360) 753-1111 * FAX (360) 753-1112
   Toll Free 1-877-601-2828 * E-mail: pdc@pdc.wa.gov * Website:
   www.pdc.wa.gov Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns
   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE LAW RE: USE OF FACILITIES IN CAMPAIGNS RCW 42.17.130
   Forbids use of public office or agency facilities in campaigns. No
   elective official nor any employee of his office nor any person
   appointed to or employed by any public office or agency may use or
   authorize the use of any of the facilities of a public office or
   agency, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of assisting a campaign
   for election of any person to any office or for the promotion of or
   opposition to any ballot proposition. Facilities of public office or
   agency include, but are not limited to, use of stationery, postage,
   machines, and equipment, use of employees of the office or agency
   during working hours, vehicles, office space, publications of the
   office or agency, and clientele lists of persons served by the office
   or agency: PROVIDED, That the foregoing provisions of this section
   shall not apply to the following activities: (1) Action taken at an
   open public meeting by members of an elected legislative body to
   express a collective decision, or to actually vote upon a motion,
   proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance, or to support or oppose a
   ballot proposition so long as (a) any required notice of the meeting
   includes the title and number of the ballot proposition, and (b)
   members of the legislative body or members of the public are afforded
   an approximately equal opportunity for the expression of an opposing
   view; (2) A statement by an elected official in support of or in
   opposition to any ballot proposition at an open press conference or in
   response to a specific inquiry; (3) Activities which are part of the
   normal and regular conduct of the office or agency. RCW 28A.320.090
   Preparing and distributing information on district's instructional
   program, operation and maintenance--Limitation. The board of directors
   of any school district shall have authority to authorize the
   expenditure of funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing
   information to the 1 general public to explain the instructional
   program, operation and maintenance of the schools of the district:
   PROVIDED, That nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize
   preparation and distribution of information to the general public for
   the purpose of influencing the outcome of a school district election.
   WAC 390-05-271 General applications of RCW 42.17.130. (1) RCW 42.17.130
   does not restrict the right of any individual to express his or her own
   personal views concerning, supporting, or opposing any candidate or
   ballot proposition, if such expression does not involve a use of the
   facilities of a public office or agency. (2) RCW 42.17.130 does not
   prevent a public office or agency from (a) making facilities available
   on a nondiscriminatory, equal access basis for political uses or (b)
   making an objective and fair presentation of facts relevant to a ballot
   proposition, if such action is part of the normal and regular conduct
   of the office or agency. WAC 390-05-273 Definition of normal and
   regular conduct. Normal and regular conduct of a public office or
   agency, as that term is used in the proviso to RCW 42.17.130, means
   conduct which is (1) lawful, i.e., specifically authorized, either
   expressly or by necessary implication, in an appropriate enactment, and
   (2) usual, i.e., not effected or authorized in or by some extraordinary
   means or manner. No local office or agency may authorize a use of
   public facilities for the purpose of assisting a candidate's campaign
   or promoting or opposing a ballot proposition, in the absence of a
   constitutional, charter, or statutory provision separately authorizing
   such use. Similar prohibitions on the use of public facilities by state
   employees and state officers are described in a memorandum from the
   Attorney General's Office regarding RCW 42.52 and available at
   www.wa.gov/ago/pubs. BASIC PRINCIPLES 1. Public facilities may not be
   used to support or oppose a candidate or ballot proposition. RCW
   42.17.130. Facilities include school district equipment, buildings,
   supplies, employee work time, and district publications. The statute
   includes an exception to the prohibition for "activities which are part
   of the normal and regular conduct of the office or agency." 2. School
   districts are authorized by statute to prepare and distribute
   information to the general public to explain the instructional program,
   operation and maintenance of the schools of the district. This includes
   informing the community of the needs the district faces and needs
   students have that the community may not realize exist. RCW 28A.320.090
   which authorizes the board of directors of any school district to
   expend funds for this purpose provides that nothing in that 2 statute
   is to be construed as authorizing preparation or distribution of
   information to the general public for the purpose of influencing the
   outcome of a school district election. 3. School districts are charged
   with education and instilling civic virtue. 4. School district
   employees do not forfeit their rights to engage in political activity
   because of their employment. Neither may district employees be
   subjected to coercion, pressure, or undue influence to participate in
   political activity or to take a particular position. Public officials
   and employees should make it clear that any participation is personal
   rather than officially sponsored. 5. Supervisory school personnel have
   a duty to know, apply, and communicate to their staffs the difference
   between acceptable information activities and inappropriate promotional
   activities in support district ballot measures. 6. School directors are
   free to support school district ballot issues and engage in other
   political activities as long as such activities do not make use of
   district facilities, time or resources and do not either pressure or
   condone employees' use of district facilities, time or resources to
   support school district ballot issues. 7. The PDC is charged with
   enforcing RCW 42.17.130. This requires consideration and analysis of
   activities, which may or may not be determined to be in violation of
   the statute. The PDC has, over the years, developed methods of
   considering and analyzing activities engaged in by school districts and
   public offices. Among the factors considered are the normal and regular
   conduct of the district and the timing, tone, and tenor of activities
   as compared with ballot measure elections. As in any matter where
   intent is to be considered, hard and fast rules, which will be
   applicable to all situations, are difficult to establish. The
   combination of a number of activities into a coordinated campaign
   involving close coordination between district activities and citizens'
   committee activities which closely resembles traditional election
   campaign activities and which is targeted at and/or occurs close in
   time to a school district ballot measure election is likely to draw
   close scrutiny and careful consideration by the PDC as to whether a
   violation has occurred. 8.a. Historically, the PDC has routinely
   advised and held that with respect to election- related publications,
   one districtwide objective and fair presentation of the facts per
   ballot measure is appropriate. In addition, if a district has also
   customarily distributed this information through means other than a
   districtwide mailing (e.g. kid mail, regularly scheduled district or
   school newsletter, website, bilingual documents, or other format), that
   conduct has also been permitted under RCW 42.17.130 so long as the
   activity has been normal and regular for the district. b. The PDC will
   presume that every school district may distribute districtwide an
   objective and fair presentation of the facts for each ballot measure.
   If the district 3 distributes more than this districtwide single
   publication, the district must be able to demonstrate to the PDC that
   this conduct is normal and regular for that district. In other words,
   the district must be able to demonstrate that for other major policy
   issues facing the district, the district has customarily communicated
   with its residents in a manner similar to that undertaken for the
   ballot measure. c. Districts are urged to read the definitions of
   "normal and regular" at WAC 390-05-271 and WAC 390-05-273. Districts
   need to be aware, however, that in no case will the PDC view a
   marketing or sales effort related to a campaign or election as normal
   and regular conduct. USE OF THE GUIDELINES This document is intended to
   assist school districts, employees, directors, and others in complying
   with the requirements of the Washington State statutes, regulations,
   and case law governing school districts and election campaigns. As
   noted in the principles, hard and fast rules are difficult to establish
   for every fact pattern that may appear in the course of election
   campaigns. The "General Considerations" column in the chart applies to
   the entire category and is not limited to the specific bullet point
   immediately to the left of the general consideration. Situations may
   arise which are not squarely addressed by the guidelines or which merit
   additional discussion. The PDC urges districts to review the guidelines
   in their entirety, and to consult with their own legal counsel and with
   the PDC. The PDC can be reached at 1-877-601-2828. 4 Public Disclosure
   Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns
   Persons Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations Principals or *
   May inform staff during non-work * Shall not pressure or coerce * Has
   there been Building hours1 of opportunities to employees to participate
   in communications with staff and Administrators participate in campaign
   activities.2 campaign activities. with union representatives regarding
   the prohibition on the use of the school's internal mail or email
   system to support or oppose a ballot measure? * Are encouraged to
   communicate to * Shall not use internal staff the difference between
   memoranda solely for the acceptable and unacceptable purpose of
   informing employees activities related to a ballot of meetings
   supporting or measure. opposing ballot measures. * In the course of
   normal * Shall not coordinate * Is the distribution of this
   publications for the school, may informational activities with
   information consistent with the distribute an objective and fair
   campaign efforts, in a manner normal practices of the school
   presentation of the facts3 based on that makes the district appear to
   (such as kid mail, newsletters, and expanded upon the be supporting or
   opposing a websites, or some other information4 prepared by the ballot
   measure. format)? district in accordance with the normal and regular
   conduct of the school and the district.5 1 Districts may set the
   definition of work hours for their employees. For example, to the
   extent that a district defines the lunch hour as a non-work hour,
   activities to support or oppose a candidate or a ballot measure that do
   not use public resources and that are held away from district
   facilities are permitted during the lunch hour. 2 RCW 42.17.680(2)
   provides that "[n]o employer or labor organization may discriminate
   against an officer or employee in the terms or conditions of employment
   for (a) the failure to contribute to, (b) the failure in any way to
   support or oppose, or (c) in any way supporting or opposing a
   candidate, ballot proposition, political party, or political
   committee." 3 Throughout these guidelines, the clause "objective and
   fair presentation of the facts" means that in addition to presenting
   the facts, the materials should present accurately the costs and other
   anticipated impacts of a ballot measure. 4 For the purposes of these
   guidelines, "information" refers to the documents prepared, printed,
   and mailed districtwide by the district's central administration solely
   for the purposes of informing residents regarding an upcoming ballot
   measure. The district and a school may continue to distribute
   information consistent with the customary practices of the district and
   a school, including but not limited to kid mail, newsletters, websites,
   and multi-lingual documents. These publications may continue, but if
   they discuss the ballot measure, the information should be an objective
   and fair presentation of the facts. 5 For the purpose of these
   guidelines, the term "normal and regular" is defined in WAC 390-05-273
   and clarified further by WAC 390-05-271. 5 Public Disclosure Commission
   Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns Persons Permitted
   Not Permitted General Considerations Principals or * May speak at
   community forums * Shall not use public resources to * Is the
   information provided an Building and clubs to present factual and
   operate a speakers' bureau in a objective and fair presentation
   Administrators objective information on a ballot manner that may be
   viewed as of the facts? (continued) measure during regular work
   promoting a ballot measure. hours. * May encourage staff and members *
   Is the activity consistent with of the public to vote, as long as the
   school's normal and regular such encouragement routinely course of
   business? occurs for other elections. * May respond to questions * Do
   the materials accurately regarding a ballot measure if such present the
   costs and other activity is consistent with his or her anticipated
   impacts of a ballot normal and regular duties. measure? * May wear
   campaign buttons or similar items while on the job if the district's
   policy generally permits employees to wear political buttons. * May
   engage in campaign activities on their own time, during non-work hours
   and without using public resources. PTSAs * May use school facilities
   for * Shall not use school facilities to meetings supporting or
   opposing a produce materials that support ballot measure to the extent
   that or oppose a ballot measure, the facilities are made available on
   unless the district offers printing an equal access, nondiscrimina-
   services on an equal access, tory basis, and it is part of the
   nondiscriminatory basis to normal and regular activity of the others.
   district. 6 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School
   Districts in Election Campaigns Persons Permitted Not Permitted General
   Considerations PTSAs * May print and distribute a separate * Shall not
   print and distribute (continued) newsletter advocating support for
   materials promoting the ballot the ballot measure so long as no measure
   in the school district resources are used (such newsletter. as kid
   mail, newsletters, websites, or some other format). * May remind voters
   of upcoming * Shall not use a school or district- election dates in the
   PTSA sponsored event to promote or newsletter or in their part of the
   oppose a candidate or a ballot school newsletter. measure. School
   Boards * May collectively vote to support or * Shall not pressure or
   coerce the oppose a ballot measure at a superintendent to participate
   in properly noticed public meeting, campaign activities. where
   opponents of the measure * Shall not explicitly include are given an
   equal opportunity to passage of a ballot measure in express views.6 the
   district's annual goals. School Board * May engage in political
   activities * Shall not direct district staff to * Is the board member
   using staff Members on his or her own time, if no public perform tasks
   to support or time, a public vehicle, or other equipment, vehicle or
   facility is oppose campaign activities or public resources? used. (An
   elected official may use ballot measures. * Has the board adopted a his
   or her title, but should clarify * Shall not use public facilities or
   resolution? If yes, the board that he/she is speaking on his/her
   resources in engaging in political member can speak on behalf of own
   behalf, and not on behalf of activities. the district. If not, has the
   the district. If the board has board member made it clear adopted a
   resolution, the board that he or she is not speaking member can then
   speak on behalf on behalf of the district? of the district.) 6 RCW
   42.17.130(1) provides that action may be "taken at an open public
   meeting by members of an elected legislative body to express a
   collective decision, or to actually vote upon a motion, proposal,
   resolution, order, or ordinance, or to support or oppose a ballot
   proposition so long as (a) any required notice of the meeting includes
   the title and number of the ballot proposition, and (b) members of the
   legislative body or members of the public are afforded an approximately
   equal opportunity for the expression of an opposing view." 7 Public
   Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election
   Campaigns Persons Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations
   Students * Students may originate school * Student school projects * Is
   the school project student- projects for credit that promote or
   supporting or opposing ballot initiated? oppose candidates or ballot
   measures shall not use public measures. resources that are not
   regularly and routinely made available for other student projects. *
   Students may use public resources * Teachers shall not assign school *
   Is the district using the student to carry out school projects projects
   to students that require project to influence the promoting or opposing
   ballot creating or distributing materials outcome of an election?
   measures, to the extent that such to influence an election's resources
   are regularly and outcome. routinely made available for other student
   projects. * District employees and officials shall not use student
   projects to influence an election's outcome. Superintendents * May
   speak at community forums * Shall not use public resources to * Is the
   superintendent using or Their and clubs to present an objective operate
   a speakers' bureau in a public resources in a manner Designees and fair
   presentation of the facts manner that may be viewed as that promotes or
   opposes a on a ballot measure during regular promoting a ballot
   measure. candidate or a ballot measure? work hours.7 * May fully
   participate in campaign * Shall not use public resources to * Does the
   presentation activities, including meeting with promote or defeat a
   candidate or accurately present the costs citizens' campaign committees
   to ballot measure. and other anticipated impacts plan strategies,
   during non-work of a ballot measure? hours and without the use of
   public resources. 7 Districts may set the definition of work hours for
   their employees. For example, to the extent that a district defines the
   lunch hour as a non-work hour, activities to support or oppose a
   candidate or a ballot measure that do not use public resources and that
   are held away from district facilities are permitted during the lunch
   hour. 8 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School Districts in
   Election Campaigns Persons Permitted Not Permitted General
   Considerations Superintendents * May inform staff during non-work *
   Shall not pressure or coerce or Their hours of opportunities to
   employees to participate in Designees participate in campaign
   activities. campaign activities. (continued) * May respond to questions
   * Shall not use district resources regarding a ballot measure if such
   to organize the distribution of activity is consistent with his or her
   campaign materials. normal and regular duties. * May wear campaign
   buttons or * Does the district have a policy similar items while on the
   job if the permitting employees to wear district's policy generally
   permits political buttons? employees to wear political buttons. * May
   place window signs or bumper stickers on their privately-owned cars,
   even if those cars are parked on school property during working hours.
   * Are encouraged to communicate to staff the difference between
   acceptable and unacceptable activities related to a ballot measure. *
   May encourage staff and members of the public to vote, as long as such
   encouragement routinely occurs for other elections. 9 Public Disclosure
   Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns
   Persons Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations Teachers or *
   May speak at community forums * Shall not use work hours or * Do the
   presentations accurately Other Employees and clubs to present an
   objective public resources to promote or present the costs and other
   and fair presentation of the facts oppose a candidate or ballot
   anticipated impacts of a ballot on a ballot measure during regular
   measure (such as gathering measure? work hours. signatures,
   distributing * Is the employee acting on his * May inform staff during
   non-work campaign materials, arranging or her own time, during non-
   hours of opportunities to speaking engagements, work hours? participate
   in campaign activities. coordinating phone banks, or fundraising). *
   May engage in campaign activities * Shall not pressure or coerce * Is
   the employee using public on their own time, during non-work other
   employees to participate in resources in a matter that hours and
   without using public campaign activities. promotes or defeats a
   resources. candidate or a ballot measure? * May respond to questions
   regarding a ballot measure if such activity is consistent with his or
   her normal and regular duties. * May wear campaign buttons or * Does
   the district have a policy similar items while on the job if the
   permitting employees to wear district's policy generally allows
   political buttons? employees to wear political buttons. * May, during
   non-work hours, make * Shall not use district resources available
   campaign materials to to organize the distribution of employees in
   lunchrooms and campaign materials. break rooms, which are used only by
   staff or other authorized individuals. 10 Public Disclosure Commission
   Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns Persons Permitted
   Not Permitted General Considerations Teachers or * May place window
   signs or Other Employees bumper stickers on their cars, even
   (continued) if those cars are parked on school property during working
   hours. * May encourage staff and members of the public to vote, as long
   as such encouragement routinely occurs for other elections. Union *
   May, during non-work hours, make * Shall not use the school's * Are
   campaign materials made Representatives available campaign materials to
   internal mail or email system to available only in those areas union
   members in lunchrooms and communicate campaign-related used solely by
   staff or other break rooms, which are used only information, including
   authorized individuals? by staff or other authorized endorsements.
   individuals. * May distribute campaign materials * Shall not distribute
   promotional * Does such distribution occur at union-sponsored meetings.
   materials in classrooms or other during non-work hours? public areas. *
   May post campaign materials on a bulletin board, if such a board is in
   an area that is not accessible to the general public and if such
   activity is consistent with the district's policy and the collective
   bargaining agreements. 11 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines for
   School Districts in Election Campaigns Activities and Resources
   Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations Equipment and * District
   employees, in the course of * Public resources (including but * Do the
   presentations fairly and Supplies their employment, may use not limited
   to internal mail objectively present the costs and equipment (including
   but not systems, email systems, other anticipated impacts of a limited
   to projectors and copiers, telephone) shall not be ballot measure?
   computers) to make an objective used to support or oppose a and fair
   presentation of the facts at candidate or ballot measure, community
   forums and clubs. whether during or outside of work hours. * District
   employees, in the course of * Citizens' campaign committees their
   employment, may produce and other community groups information that is
   an objective and shall not use district equipment fair presentation of
   the facts using (including but not limited to public resources.
   internal mail systems, projectors, computers, and copiers) to prepare
   materials for meetings regarding ballot measures. Meeting Facilities *
   District meeting facilities, including * Can community groups typically
   audio visual equipment, may be use school facilities? used by campaign
   committees for * Are facilities made available to activities on the
   same terms and all groups on the same terms? conditions available to
   other community groups, subject to the * Has the district adopted a
   policy provisions of the district's policy. regarding the distribution
   of campaign materials on district property? 12 Public Disclosure
   Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns
   Activities and Resources Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations
   Lists * Lists of names (such as district * Districts shall not sell
   copies of * Is the list obtained or created in vendors or parents) that
   a district such lists (though they may the course of the district has
   obtained or created in the charge a pre-established fee to transacting
   its public business? course of transacting its regular recover the
   costs of providing public business are subject to copies of the lists).
   public disclosure requirements; thus, unless otherwise exempt, the
   lists must be released subject to public records requests. * Districts
   may charge a * If a list is generally available as * Are the fees
   charged no greater pre-established fee to cover the a public record, it
   cannot be than necessary to cover the costs of providing copies of such
   denied to a person or group on costs of providing copies? lists on an
   equal access, the grounds that it might be nondiscriminatory basis.
   used in a campaign. * Has the district complied with FERPA and district
   policy in responding to any public record requests? Voting * District
   personnel may encourage * Districts shall not pressure or * Is the
   activity related to providing Information staff and members of the
   public to coerce employees to vote. voting information for elections,
   vote, as long as such as opposed to advocating for or encouragement
   routinely occurs against a particular candidate or for other elections.
   ballot measure? * Public facilities may be used to * Districts shall
   not organize an register people to vote and to do effort to encourage
   staff to periodic poll checking. wear campaign buttons or display
   campaign materials. 13 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines for
   School Districts in Election Campaigns Activities and Resources
   Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations District * Districts may
   develop an objective * Districts shall not distribute * Does the
   information provide an Publications and fair presentation of the facts
   election-related information in a objective and fair presentation of
   (Specific to regarding district needs and the manner that targets
   specific the facts? Elections) anticipated impact of a ballot
   subgroups. Targeting does not measure, and may distribute it in refer
   to mailing information to the district's customary manner. district
   constituencies such as This information8 may be printed in parents,
   families within a * Is the timing, format, and style, various languages
   and service region, community including tone and tenor, of the
   communicated in other formats as leaders, or some other group,
   information presented in a required by the ADA. or to the district's
   regular manner that is normal and distribution list to provide regular
   for the district? information in a manner that is consistent with the
   normal and regular conduct of the district. * In the course of regular
   * Districts shall not publicize * Is the information distributed in a
   publications for the district, the information supporting or manner
   that is normal and district may distribute an objective opposing a
   candidate or ballot regular for the district? and fair presentation of
   the facts measure. for each ballot measure in accordance with the
   normal and regular conduct of the district. * Do the materials
   accurately present the costs and other anticipated impacts of a ballot
   measure? 8 For the purposes of these guidelines, "information" refers
   to the documents prepared, printed, and mailed districtwide by the
   district's central administration solely for the purposes of informing
   residents regarding an upcoming ballot measure. The district and a
   school may continue to distribute information consistent with the
   customary practices of the district and a school, including but not
   limited to kid mail, newsletters, websites, and multi-lingual
   documents. These publications may continue, but if they discuss the
   ballot measure, the information should be an objective and fair
   presentation of the facts. 14 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines
   for School Districts in Election Campaigns Activities and Resources
   Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations District * Does the
   district typically Publications distribute information by kid mail,
   (Specific to newsletters, websites, or some Elections) other format?
   (continued) District * Districts may include all or part of * Districts
   shall not use internal * Does the district routinely Publications the
   information regarding district memoranda or other district distribute
   such information? (Regular) needs and the anticipated impacts
   publications to encourage of a ballot measure in the district's
   employees to participate in regular publications, such as campaign
   activities. district and school newsletters. (For example, a school
   newsletter may specifically describe the projects and/or programs
   planned for that school.) * Districts may inform staff and/or *
   Districts shall not publish * Does the district normally inform parents
   of community meetings materials supporting or staff and/or parents of
   related to ballot measures if other opposing a candidate or ballot
   community activities and such information is normally measure.
   meetings? published in a newsletter or community calendar, and if both
   those supporting or opposing a ballot measure have the opportunity to
   appear on the calendar or in the newsletter. 15 Public Disclosure
   Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election Campaigns
   Activities and Resources Permitted Not Permitted General Considerations
   District * Districts may factually report * Is the information
   presented in Publications school board support for a ballot an
   objective and fair manner? (Regular) measure, so long as it is the * Is
   the district engaging in (continued) normal and regular conduct for the
   significantly different activities district. (For example, a during the
   time period community newsletter that immediately prior to the ballot
   ordinarily reports on board actions measure compared to all other may
   report that the board adopted times of the school year? a resolution
   supporting the district's ballot measure.) * Districts may thank
   citizens for their support after an election in district publications.
   Reader * Information encouraging staff and * Districts shall not
   display a Boards/Posters members of the public to vote, or "vote
   schools" sign or other providing the dates of upcoming promotional
   messages on elections such as "vote on reader boards or posters.
   February ___", may be posted, as long as such encouragement is
   customarily posted for elections other than just a district ballot
   measure. * Districts may thank citizens on * Signs advocating for or
   against their reader boards for their candidates or ballot measures
   support after an election. shall not be posted on district property in
   any area accessible to the general public or in classrooms. 16 Public
   Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election
   Campaigns Activities and Resources Permitted Not Permitted General
   Considerations Reader * Union representatives/employees Boards/Poster
   may post campaign materials on a (continued) bulletin board, if such a
   board is in an area that is only accessible to staff or other
   authorized individuals and if such activity is consistent with the
   district's policy and collective bargaining agreements. * May post
   objective and fair * Publicly owned vehicles shall information at a
   school or at a not be used to carry or display future school site
   regarding political material. anticipated improvements to be funded by
   a ballot measure that is specific to that school or site. Surveys and *
   Districts may conduct surveys * Districts shall not conduct * Has the
   school board passed a Research and/or other community research, surveys
   to determine what resolution authorizing a measure including
   demographic questions, taxation level the public would to be placed on
   the ballot? (If to determine the community's support. so, actions may
   be more closely priorities, public perception of scrutinized.) district
   performance, and/or to inform the community about district programs and
   policies. * Districts may conduct community * Districts shall not
   conduct * Does the election-related survey research (including but not
   limited surveys designed to shore up target specific subgroups? to the
   use of questionnaires, support or opposition for a surveys, workshops,
   focus groups, ballot measure. and forums) to determine the community's
   priorities for both programs and/or facilities and their associated
   total costs and projected dollars per thousand assessment. 17 Public
   Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School Districts in Election
   Campaigns Activities and Resources Permitted Not Permitted General
   Considerations Surveys and * The surveys and/or other * Districts shall
   not target * Is the survey or community Research community research can
   be registered voters or other research consistent with normal
   (continued) conducted before or after the specific subgroups of
   district and regular activities of the school board has approved a
   residents in conducting their district? resolution to place a ballot
   election-related surveys. measure on the ballot. However, research
   conducted after the adoption of the resolution may be subject to
   greater scrutiny. * Districts may publish survey * Districts shall not
   use survey results if it is consistent with the results in a manner
   designed to normal and regular conduct of the support or oppose a
   candidate district. or ballot measure. Technology * A district may
   develop an objective * District computers, email * Are the materials
   developed an (websites, emails, and fair presentation of the facts
   systems, telephones, and other objective and fair presentation of
   computerized and post that information on its information technology
   systems the facts? calling systems) website, including information
   shall not be used to aid a regarding district needs and the campaign
   for or against a anticipated impacts of a ballot candidate or ballot
   measure. measure. This information may be reformatted so that it is
   consistent with the manner in which the district customarily presents
   information on its website. * District websites may permit * Electronic
   communication * Is the district engaging in viewers to make selections
   to systems shall not be used to significantly different activities
   learn about the anticipated impacts generate or forward information
   during the time period of a ballot measure for a specific that supports
   or opposes a immediately prior to the ballot school, or otherwise allow
   readers candidate or ballot measure. measure compared to all other to
   explore issues in greater or times of the school year? lesser detail.
   18 Public Disclosure Commission Guidelines for School Districts in
   Election Campaigns Activities and Resources Permitted Not Permitted
   General Considerations Technology * Districts may update the * District
   websites shall not be * Do the materials accurately (websites, emails,
   information on their websites in a used for the purposes of present the
   costs and other computerized manner that is customary for the
   supporting or opposing a anticipated impacts of a ballot calling
   systems) district. candidate or ballot measure. measure? (continued) *
   Staff may respond to inquiries * Has there been communications
   regarding a ballot measure in an with staff and with union objective
   and fair manner, via representatives regarding the email or by
   telephone if it is part of prohibition on the use of the their normal
   and regular duties. school's technology to support or oppose a ballot
   measure? Note on Timing of Activities: A particular activity may be
   subject to the scrutiny of the Public Disclosure Commission depending
   in part on whether it is a part of the "normal and ordinary" conduct of
   a district or a school. Generally, activities that occur after a school
   board has passed a resolution authorizing a measure to be placed on the
   ballot will be subject to greater scrutiny by the Public Disclosure
   Commission than those occurring before such a resolution has been
   passed. Note on District Policies: The application of these guidelines
   is also subject to each district's own policies as adopted by the
   school board. Adopted by the Commission 8/28/01 19
