http://www.brea.bnl.gov/Brcom00.htm


                           CONSTITUTION AND BYLAWS
                                   OF THE
                     BNL RETIRED EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION

                        ARTICLES OF THE CONSTITUTION

                              ARTICLE I - NAME

   Section 1.  The name of this Association is "BNL Retired Employees'
   Association".

                            ARTICLE II - PURPOSE

   Section 1.  The Association is established to represent retiree
   interests and benefits; build closer community ties between Brookhaven
   National Laboratory and its neighbors; create a newsletter providing
   communication with retired employees; encouraging activities for social
   interaction in the retirement community and establish volunteer efforts
   to assist in fund raising for the benefit of charities and local
   communities.

                          ARTICLE III - MEMBERSHIP

   Section 1.  "BNL Retired Employees' Association" is composed of retired
   members of Brookhaven National Laboratory, or those out on long term
   disability from BNL. Associate Members are all other members of the BNL
   community.

   Section 2.  A fee is assessed each member annually.

                           ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT

   Section 1.  The affairs of the Association shall be conducted by the
   elected officers of the Association. Approval of the Personnel Manager
   or his designee shall be required for the use of properties or
   facilities of the Laboratory.

                            ARTICLE V - MEETINGS

   Section 1.  There are no scheduled meetings. Meetings of the membership
   may be called by the President or Vice-President on an as needed basis,
   but there shall be at least one meeting annually. A simple majority
   vote of those in attendence at meetings will resolve all issues.

                            ARTICLE V1 - OFFICERS

   Section 1.  The President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer
   shall be elected for a term of two years.

   Section 2. A Nominating Committee appointed by by the President or his
   designee, consisting of four members shall present a slate of
   candidates for new elections.


                           ARTICLE VII - VACANCIES

   Section 1.  In the event that the office of the President is vacant,
   the Vice President shal automatically take over his duties for the
   unexpired term.

   Section 2.  In the event of a vacancy in the office of Vice President,
   Secretary, or Treasurer, the President is authorized to appoint a
   volunteer from the membership to complete the unexpired term.

                          ARTICLE VIII - AMENDMENTS

   Section 1.  Amendments to the Constitution will require a vote of the
   membership following due notice. A 2/3 majority is required.

                          ARTICLE IX - DISSOLUTION

   Upon dissolution of the organization all of the assets remaining, after
   payment of all costs and expenses of such dissolution, shall be
   distributed to BERA in recognition of their support and assistance.

                                   BYLAWS

   Section 1. The duties of the President shall be:

   (1)  to preside at all meetings of the Association

          (2) to serve as an official representative of the Association

          (3)  to appoint committees

          (4)  to issue all and any reports that are needed

          (5)  to see that the Constitution and Bylaws of the Association
   are enforced

          (6)  to prepare a budget and approve all expenditures in excess
   of $500

          (7)  to act as the authorized representative of the Association
   in all negotiations with the BNL contractor, Brookhaven National
   Laboratory, the United States Department of Energy, and other
   organizations.

          (8)  to call meetings


   Section 2.  The Duties of the Vice President shall be:

          (1)  to assume the duties of the President in his/her absence

          (2)  to to be a non-voting member of all committees and provide
   liasion between committees and the officers of the Association.

          (3)  to assist the President

   Section 3.  Duties of the Secretary

          (1)  to assume the responsibility for the correspondence of the
   Association and maintenance of the necessary files

          (2)  to issue calls for meetings at the direction of the
   President

          (3)  to act in liaison with BNL in maintaining an up-to-date
   mailing list of retirees

          (4)  to record minutes of meetings as requested by the President


   Section 4. The Duties of the Treasurer shall be:

         (1)  to keep a detailed record of the finances of the Association

         (2)  to provide the Officers of the Association with a quarterly
   financial statement

         (3)  to open a checking account with a bank and coordinate
   ssignature authorization with the President

         (4)  to prepare an annual budget proposal
