http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/tech_resources.htm

   Iowa NRCS

            Technical Resources

   [USEMAP:buttons.jpg]

   Integrated Farm/Livestock Management - References and tools which
   demonstrate the effectiveness and adaptability of emerging practices
   for livestock and crop production systems.

   Iowa Cooperative Soil Survey - Provides free digital soil map data for
   Geographic Information System applications via internet download. The
   data is available in several file formats covering a single section or
   a full township. Also available are Web links to soils information and
   related digital products.

   Iowa Engineering - A collection of references and tools related to the
   planning, design, and construction of engineering conservation
   practices in Iowa.

   Iowa Field Office Technical Guide - The Technical Guide is designed to
   primarily be used by technically trained people who are assisting
   landowners and users, land managers and responsible officials of units
   of government, and other decision makers to plan, apply and maintain
   appropriate conservation practices.

   Iowa Geographic Image Map Server - Provides free on-line access to
   geographically referenced digital data, including digital orthophotos
   (aerial photos), topographic maps, and landcover. Users can browse and
   download data in various image file  formats, for use in desktop
   applications, including Geographic Information Systems.

   Iowa NRCS Geospatial Technologies Support Site - Provides technical
   support to NRCS staff who are using Geographic Information Systems
   (GIS), Global Positioning Systems (GPS), hand-held computers/PDAs, and
   database applications including Conservation Assistant and EWP.
   Includes information and download links and frequently asked questions
   about the technologies.

   Iowa National Resources Inventory - An inventory of land cover and use,
   soil erosion, prime farmland, wetlands, and other natural resource
   characteristics on non-Federal rural land in the United States. The NRI
   provides a record of the Nation's conservation accomplishments and
   future program needs.

   Iowa Phosphorus Index - The purpose of Iowa phosphorus (P) index is to
   assess the risk of P delivery to surface waters.

   Iowa Planning Policy (in PDF form) - Provides information to supplement
   the Natural Resources Conservation Service of Iowa Conservation
   Planning Policy.

   IRMP Tillage Survey (an informal partnership of private and public
   organizations interested in conservation tillage)  - Surveys the
   tillage preference of Iowa corn and soybean producers.

   Native Prairie Seeding Calculator Revised 7/30/01 (requires Microsoft
   Excel) - The Native Grass Seeding Calculator is design to assist in
   developing seeding mixtures that are adapted to specific sites based on
   moisture regimes and flowing periods. The calculator will also provide
   and estimate of seed costs and provide a seeding plan for the client.
