http://ferguson.library.ca.gov/html/cslgen1.html


   State of California Website
                                      [clearpixel.gif]
   CSL Catalog
   Highlights
   Library of California
   Only Just Begun
   Connection - the CSL Newsletter
   Gold Rush
   Library Bond Act of 2000
   Linking Welfare Recipients to Jobs
   Proposition 218 After Two Years
   Trustee Toolkit
   LSTA
   Civil Liberties Grants
   Shortcuts
   Home
   CRB Reports
   California Libraries
   California Family Impact Seminar (CAFIS)
   Genealogy
   Library Laws
   General Info
   Mission Statement
   Overview
   Location/Hours
   Staff
   Jobs at the California State Library
   Search Site


   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]        [clearpixel.gif]

                                     California State Library
                    Gold Bar

   [clearpixel.gif] [land2.gif]
[clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                 General Information

                 In 1850, California was admitted to the Union. That same year, the
   legislature, recognizing the need to have accessible facts, figures and
   documentation to support decision and policy-making, created the
   California State Library -- establishing its home in the State Capitol.

   In 1928, the Library and Courts Building was completed to accommodate
   the State Library's growing collections and functions, as well as the
   Supreme Court Chambers and offices. This building was placed on the
   National Register of Historic places in 1984. In the spring of 1994,
   the Library and Courts II Building was completed to re-centralize all
   of the State Library's services in two neighboring buildings.

   Today the State Library stands as one of California's great public
   research institutions with a five-fold mission: serving the needs of
   elected officials and state agency employees; preserving the state's
   cultural heritage by collecting historic materials on California and
   the West; assisting public libraries through financial aid and
   consulting services; offering special services to disadvantaged and
   handicapped clients; and, ensuring that the general public has
   convenient and consistent access to its resources.

   Our Charge

   The California State Library is charged with performing the following
   activities as defined by law. The State Library, under the direction
   and control of the State Librarian, an appointee of the Governor, has
   responsibility:
    1. To collect, preserve, generate and disseminate a wide array of
       information;
    2. To serve as the central reference and research library for state
       government and the Legislature;
    3. To advise, consult with, and provide technical assistance to and
       outreach programs for California's public libraries;
    4. To direct state and federal funds to support local public libraries
       and statewide library programs; and
    5. To develop automation systems to improve resource sharing and
       access to information.
       Our Mission
        The State Library is California's public research library that
            helps a diverse people, their governments and their libraries
            meet their knowledge and information needs.
       Our Vision
            By the 21st century, the California State Library will be
            universally recognized as the most dynamic state library in
            the nation. This recognition will arise from a number of
            factors: the excellence of its collection; its philosophy and
            practice of efficient service to state government, its primary
            client, as well as to the libraries, library networks and the
            general public; its advocacy and support of appropriate
            technology; its effective statewide leadership in library
            development; and its care for the heritage of California and
            the continuing well-being of Californians. Most importantly --
            and supporting all these efforts -- the California State
            Library will be known for the expertise and esprit de corps of
            its staff, committed to the highest ideals of library and
            information service.
       Our Values
       Service
            We believe that library and information service is essential
            to a learning society because information and knowledge are
            indispensable to the development of human potential, the
            advancement of civilization, and the continuance of
            enlightened self-government.
       Customers
        We believe that meeting the needs of our diverse customer base is
            first and foremost.
       Quality
        We value the importance of providing rapid and comprehensive
            access to knowledge and information and strive to constantly
            improve the services we provide to state government, the
            public and to each other.
       Technology
        We believe libraries must be active partners in the development
            and implementation of technology to ensure that access to
            knowledge and information will be equitably available to all.
       Individuality
        We respect the individuality and integrity of each customer and
            each employee, and foster an environment in which creativity,
            productivity and individual responsibility are encouraged,
            recognized and rewarded.
       Teamwork
        We believe that each individual is a member of the team, working
            together to serve our customers.
            Return to CSL Home Page

 [clearpixel.gif]          [clearpixel.gif]
                  Gold Bar
                  Please send comments and suggestions to csl-adm@library.ca.gov
   State Library Administration Office, (916) 654-0183.
   Last Updated September 15, 1997

[clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
                 For site information, please contact the CSL Web Administrator.
