http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/news-release/releases/2002/02-023.htm

   [spacer.gif]

   Contact:
   Cynthia O'Carroll
   NASA Goddard
   Space Flight
   Center
   Phone: 301/614-
   5563
   Steven Schultz
   Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
   Phone: 609/258-5729
   Ruth Jacobs
   U.S. Geological Survey,
   Corvallis, Ore.
   Phone: 541/750-7304
   [spacer.gif] NASA News Header [spacer.gif]

   Jan. 24, 2002 - RELEASE NO: 02-023

   U.S. ECOLOGY DRAMATICALLY ALTERED BY FERTILIZERS AND ACID RAIN

   A NASA-funded study of ancient and unpolluted South American forests
   promises to upend longstanding beliefs about ecosystems and the effects
   of pollution in the Northern Hemisphere.

   The study, published in the Jan. 24 issue of Nature, focused on
   nitrogen, a plant nutrient that plays a critical role in maintaining
   everything from the health of local waterways to the global climate.

   The study finds high levels of inorganic nitrogen in the United States,
   long thought to be the natural mainstay of the ecosystem, are really
   the result of acid rain and agricultural fertilizers. The authors argue
   that the ecosystems of South America, with their preponderance of
   organic nitrogen, are a window into the past, showing that U.S.
   ecosystems were very different before the industrial revolution.

   Ecologists previously thought that nitrogen-containing minerals,
   referred to collectively as inorganic nitrogen, have always been the
   dominant nutrient in forests worldwide. The study of South American
   forests, however, showed a sharply different picture: complex, organic
   compounds are the main form of nitrogen in unpolluted ecosystems.

   "We traveled in time by traveling to South America," said Lars Hedin, a
   co-author of the study and a professor of ecology and evolutionary
   biology at Princeton University.

   The information they uncovered could have far-reaching impacts in many
   areas of ecology, from predicting the pace of global climate change to
   understanding the consequences of acid rain and agricultural run-off.

   "Nitrogen is a sort of master variable," said Steve Perakis, the
   paper's lead author and a research scientist with the U.S. Geological
   Survey. "If we don't get the fundamental elements of the nitrogen cycle
   right, we can't answer many other ecological questions."

   The findings raise questions about our understanding of global warming,
   which is partly caused by fossil fuel burning and increasing levels of
   heat-trapping carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. When trees grow and
   mature they remove carbon dioxide from the air. The ability of trees to
   grow and absorb more carbon is intimately related to the availability
   of nitrogen.

   The remote areas of Chile and Argentina provided prime areas for
   conducting the research. In North America the ground is tainted with
   large amounts of inorganic nitrogen from widespread use of
   nitrogen-heavy fertilizers, as well as acid rain brought on by fossil
   fuel burning. In the South American areas the researchers studied,
   there is no fertilizer use and almost no influx of fossil fuel
   emissions.

   To reach their conclusions, the scientists spent five years preparing
   experiments in remote Chilean temperate forests and another five years
   conducting detailed analyses of water in those forests. They also
   conducted one-time tests in a dozen other remote areas in Chile and
   Argentina to prove that the preponderance of organic nitrogen they
   observed was not unique to the site they were studying. At the same
   time, they repeated their measurements in three U.S. virgin forests,
   two in the Smokey Mountains and one in Pennsylvania. All of the areas
   studied contained unlogged primary forests, in ecosystems that have
   developed in place for 4,000 years to over 20,000 years.

   The results also suggest that in North America the impact of nitrogen
   pollution from acid rain and agriculture may be more dramatic in years
   to come than previously thought. That's because North American forests
   are still young, after recovering from past logging and agricultural
   clear-cutting. Young trees use nitrogen from the soil for growth, but
   as they mature, they sequester less nitrogen from the environment. When
   that happens, more inorganic nitrogen will be available to run off into
   rivers and groundwater.

   Another interesting finding, said Perakis, was that the nitrogen cycle
   -- the way nitrogen compounds are exchanged between plants, soil,
   waterways and the atmosphere -- in South America is more uniform than
   it is in the United States. "We found that even though there were some
   noticeable variations in South America, they were pretty small compared
   to the variations caused by air pollution. We live in a transient
   world, a world that's changing because of many human activities, so
   many systems are responding in unique ways."

   Perakis' work was funded by a NASA Earth System Science Fellowship. The
   overall project was funded by grants from the Andrew Mellon Foundation
   and the National Science Foundation.
