http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_1218compass.htm

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) / Tracey Shifflett
   (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019


   Resources Committee Passes Key Energy Bill, Accelerates WW II Memorial
                      and Expands National Trail System

   Washington, D.C. - The House Resources Committee reported more than 60
   bills this year. Fifty-one have passed the House and 13 are now public
   law. Among these, three key accomplishments include an energy bill that
      helps America meet her energy needs for decades to come, pushing
     forward the construction of a World War II Memorial on the National
   Mall and beginning the expansion of America’s national trail system.

   Chairman James V. Hansen’s statement:

   ‘The Resources Committee crafted the bill that forms the heart of The
   Securing America’s Future Energy Act of 2001. Our bill helps America
   develop more of her own energy without hurting wildlife or the
   environment. It creates an estimated 735,000 jobs, jump-starting our
   sputtering economy. It strengthens our national security by reducing
   our reliance on Middle East oil and protecting our federal dam system
   from possible sabotage. Finally, it paves the way for expanded
   development of wind, solar and geothermal energy from public lands. I
   remain optimistic that the will of the American people will prevail and
   Senate Democrats will allow a vote next year on this key measure.

   “We passed a bill that will push forward the construction of the World
   War II Memorial on the National Mall. I wish this had been built years
   ago. Literally thousands of World War II veterans are dying every
   month. They deserve this tangible expression of our gratitude for their
   sacrifice.

   “We took the first steps toward expanding our national system of
   historic trails. There are several trails that should be included in
   the Oregon, Pony Express, California and Mormon Pioneer Historic
   Trails. We have started to identify and preserve these as part of our
   national heritage.”

   The Resources Committee also authorized $600 million for the recovery
   of threatened and endangered fish in the Northwest, created a new
   wildlife refuge in northern Michigan, put 50,000 acres in the West
   under wilderness protection and commemorated the 350-mile forced march
   of thousands of Navajo Indians by designating their route as a national
   historic trail. More than 3,000 Indians died on the march.

   A summary of the bills passed by the committee can be found at
   file:///E:/press/2001/2001_1218accomp.htm.
