http://religiousfreedom.house.gov/rel-vote.htm

   home

       [space.gif]

                                                Reading Room


   The Text
   Fact Sheets
   Reading Room
   Q and A
   Press Releases
   Testimonies
   Legal Analysis
   Viewpoints
   Congressional
   Endorsing Groups
   Opinion Polls
   The Process
   Cosponsors
   Committee Action
   Supreme Court
   Other Links
   Comments
   [space.gif]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   May 28, 1998 Contact: Steven Jones
   (202)225-2132

    Majority Whip, Amendment Author Announce: Historic Religious Freedom
                                  Vote Set

   Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a
   proposed religious freedom constitutional amendment on June 4th,
   Majority Whip Tom DeLay, (R-TX), and Rep. Ernest Istook, (R-OK),
   confirmed today. The vote will be on the Religious Freedom Amendment
   (RFA), also known as House Joint Resolution 78, sponsored by
   Congressman Istook, with over 150 co-sponsors.

   The upcoming vote will be the first time in 27 years the U.S. House has
   voted on a proposed constitutional amendment to restore voluntary
   prayer in schools and protect religious freedom. The last vote was in
   1971, on a measure forced to the House floor by petition.

   "This vote will provide an opportunity for Members of the House to be
   put on record as supporters of religious freedoms and 'One nation under
   God. Today, our schools are filled with drugs and violence- it's time
   we made room for a little prayer instead,"
   said DeLay.

   DeLay noted the only way to remedy more than three decades of court
   decisions is to clarify the original intent of the First Amendment.

   "Even if we pass religious freedom legislation every year, the liberal
   establishment will petition the Supreme Court to overturn it - and they
   will most likely succeed. However, the Constitution provides another
   way for the American people to re-establish religious freedoms, that's
   through a Constitutional amendment."

   The amendment has been a work in progress for nearly three years, and
   Rep. Istook said the final language strikes "a good Constitutional
   balance."

   "The Religious Freedom Amendment is carefully crafted to protect
   everyone's religious rights - not merely the rights of those belonging
   to a 'majority religion,' or a 'minority religion,' or even no religion
   at all,"
   said Istook. "Like the rest of the Constitution, this is designed to
   protect the unalienable rights of all Americans, which our Founding
   Fathers recognized come from our 'Creator.'"

   The actual text of H.J. Res. 78 is as follows:

   "To secure the people's right to acknowledge God according to the
   dictates of conscience: Neither the United States nor any State shall
   establish any official religion, but the people's right to pray and to
   recognize their religious beliefs, heritage or traditions on public
   property, including schools, shall not be infringed. Neither the United
   States nor any state shall require any person to join in prayer or
   other religious activity, prescribe school prayers, discriminate
   against religion, or deny equal access to a benefit on account of
   religion."

   For more information, contact Michael Scanlon in Rep. DeLay's office at
   202-225-0197, or Steve Jones in Rep. Istook's office at 202-225-2132.

                                     ###

                                 [seal.gif]
                                  [mb1.gif]
