http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/news/press/JNCI_cancervaccines.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   CCR News Desk


   CCR Press
   •  New High-Tech Tool Helps Diagnose Cancer
   •  Drs. I. Pastan and R. Kreitman publish results with BL-22
   •  CCR is highlighted in JNCI
   •  Cancer vaccines in CCR
   •  Targeted Toxins Begin to Live Up to Early Expectations


   Cancer Vaccines: Advances Give Hope For Future Therapy

   By Tracy Thompson

   Newspapers around the country have touted cancer vaccines as offering
   new hope for cancer treatment. A National Cancer Institute Web site
   lists nine phase III clinical trials and 64 phase II trials testing
   cancer vaccines. Excitement is building in the cancer vaccine field.

   "The notion that somehow we can use the immune system to recognize and
   destroy cancer is not a new idea, but it has been very difficult to
   make it work," said Edgar Engleman, M.D., professor of pathology and of
   medicine at Stanford University.

   Similar to vaccines against viruses like poliovirus, a cancer vaccine
   seeks to show the body what it should be battling. Bacteria and viruses
   produce antigens that are very different from those on the patient's
   normal cells. Because of this, the antigens are easily recognized by
   the immune system.

   In contrast, tumor antigens are likely to be similar or even identical
   to antigens on normal cells and are therefore harder for the immune
   system to recognize. The tumor antigens are weak antigens; they have
   already escaped the immune system's detection. The challenge is to make
   the weak cancer antigen more recognizable by the immune system.

   "There was a tremendous amount of skepticism about this for many
   years," said Engleman. "I think the evidence is pretty clear now that .
   . . we can, in fact, introduce tumor-associated antigens in a way that
   does make them immunogenic."

   When to Treat?

   The obvious requirement that a patient have an optimally functioning
   immune system cannot always be met. For example, the way that drugs for
   cancer are tested, for ethical reasons, is to initially test them in
   advanced cases that have failed other treatments, said Jeffrey Schlom,
   Ph.D., chief of the Laboratory of Tumor Immunology and Biology at NCI.
   He noted that patients who have had other therapies will have a
   suppressed immune system, "and that is not the best place to test the
   efficacy of a vaccine."
   There is also evidence that the cancer itself may secrete substances
   that suppress the immune system. "This is less important when it is a
   small tumor," said Schlom. "But when you have something that is the
   size of a golf ball, it's very important. There is a push now about
   trying to move these vaccine trials into more healthy patients."

   Despite obstacles, the successes are mounting. "I think it's true that
   any therapy, including immunotherapy, will work best in those patients
   who are the healthiest, who have the lowest tumor burden, whose immune
   systems are in intact," said Engleman.

   Which Tumor Antigen?

   Research laboratories around the world have invested much time and
   effort in discovering cancer antigens. The question of which antigen is
   going to produce the best immune response is pivotal to the success of
   a cancer vaccine.

   "To develop a cancer vaccine, you have to know what the antigens are on
   the cancer that the immune system reacts against," said Steven
   Rosenberg, M.D., Ph.D., chief of the Surgery Branch at NCI. "So we have
   spent many years trying to clone genes that code for cancer antigens.
   We have identified well over a dozen right now."

   The time this requires in the laboratory may soon shorten. Many
   researchers look to the promise emerging with the completion of the
   Human Genome Project and with the development of new technologies such
   as microarray analysis and proteomics.

   "In the post-human genome era, there are gene products that are
   potential antigens for vaccines just emerging now," said Schlom. The
   expectation is that an explosion of potential new antigens is
   forthcoming. "We will have a lot of tumor antigens as candidates to
   develop as [targets for] cancer vaccines," said Larry Kwak, M.D.,
   Ph.D., head of the Vaccine Biology Section at NCI. "One of our
   challenges is going to be prioritizing these and having efficient
   methods for determining which of the candidates are most promising
   because we are going to have a lot to choose from."

   With the number of target antigens for cancer vaccines expected to
   increase very quickly, researchers struggle with how to best wade
   through the information. Strategies are being developed and studies are
   ongoing that compare tumor cells to normal cells using these new
   technologies. However, as Engleman observed, "It may be tricky to do
   comparisons of these antigens because it is very hard to do controlled
   type trials in humans. If you have 50 antigens, how are you going to do
   a comparative study? It will be very difficult to do that."

   Mode of Delivery

   Once an antigen has been identified as a possible target for a cancer
   vaccine, the researcher must find a way to present it to the patient's
   immune system in such a way as to enhance the immune response. Schlom
   and his colleagues are using vaccinia virus—the virus used in the
   smallpox vaccine—to deliver their antigen. "When a person gets the
   smallpox vaccine," explained Schlom, "he or she gets this pustule, this
   inflammation. That is the body responding to the virus. It's in that
   environment, with the immune system's cytokines being released and the
   T-cells coming in, that we present this weak tumor antigen."

   Schlom's group is also making use of costimulatory molecules, secondary
   signals that activate the immune system. "It's been found very recently
   that the more of these costimulatory molecules that you use, the better
   response you get," said Schlom. "We've been able to put together a
   virus vector with the antigen and three costimulatory molecules—all in
   the same vector—to load it up."

   Schlom's animal model studies have shown that the combination of the
   antigen and the costimulatory molecules are much more potent in
   attacking tumors than just the antigen alone. "With DNA vectors, like
   plasmids, you can only put in one gene," explained Schlom. "But with
   these big viral vectors you can put in four, five, six genes. That's
   why we've used them."

   Other delivery systems show promise as well. "The delivery vehicle that
   we're most excited about is a fusion protein of tumor antigens and
   chemokine molecules," said Kwak. Chemokines are attracted to receptors
   located on dendritic cells—key components of the immune system. By
   creating a fusion protein, Kwak has coerced the chemokine into
   delivering the antigen to the immune system. Kwak added that the work
   is all in animal models and pre-clinical studies. "We're hoping to
   translate this into phase I clinical trials within the year," he added.

   Like many in the cancer vaccine field, Rosenberg and colleagues are
   exploring many avenues for delivery of antigens. "We've explored a
   whole variety of ways to immunize. We've put them into recombinant
   viruses, and we are engineering recombinant adenoviruses and vaccinia
   viruses," said Rosenberg.

   "But what we've found is that the most effective way to immunize
   patients is by immunizing with peptides—small pieces of the antigen,"
   he said. "When one does that, one can raise very high levels of
   antitumor immunity in patients."

   Dendritic Cells

   Engleman and his colleagues have concentrated efforts on understanding
   and exploiting dendritic cells. "The only reason we did this is because
   we had figured out a way to isolate these very rare cells from the
   blood," said Engleman.

   Their studies showed that dendritic cells are the only cells that are
   able to sensitize naïve T-cells to antigens. Engleman observed an
   immunologic response as the dendritic cells activated and educated the
   T-cells. "So we were able to create an immune response in the test tube
   that we couldn't do with other cells," said Engleman.

   This observation resulted in a collaboration with Ron Levy, M.D.,
   professor of medicine and chief of oncology at Stanford University. The
   investigators found they could remove a small number of dendritic cells
   from a patient, introduce the cells to the antigen in vitro, and then
   return the educated cells to the patient. Early studies showed an
   antitumor response in some patients. "I think that experience ignited a
   lot of interest in this general approach," said Engleman.

   Although the manipulation of dendritic cells is promising, it is also
   very expensive and labor-intensive. "These are patient-specific
   treatments using the patient's own cells. It's very costly," said
   Engleman. "Eventually, we may have to get beyond this approach to a
   more cost-effective approach."

   Future Directions

   Despite the obstacles and the time involved in researching, developing,
   and testing cancer vaccines, the researchers most knowledgeable about
   the field are optimistic about the future of this immunotherapy.

   "I think the general wisdom is that the best approach to cancer is one
   that uses multiple approaches: surgery and chemotherapy to reduce the
   tumor and immunological approaches to perhaps clean up residual cancer
   because the immune system is pretty efficient," said Engleman.

   Others hope that cancer vaccines will one day replace the more toxic
   standard therapies. "What I'm really excited about is that eventually
   we will probably be able to combine a bunch of different vaccines,"
   said Schlom. "If there are three or four antigens that are
   overexpressed in, for example, most colon cancers or breast cancers,
   you would just mix them in the vial—just like the DTP [diphtheria,
   tetanus, and pertussis] vaccine. With vaccines, you start a response.
   Then, adding another vaccine at the same time or later magnifies that
   whole response, which makes it more synergistic.

   "I think the day is going to come soon where maybe 10 or 15 antigens
   are identified that are shared among most breast cancers, most colon
   cancers," he added. "You will make a vaccine against all of them. It
   will be easy to use and cost effective. In animal models, we are just
   starting to do this. That's where the field is going. That's where it's
   going for sure."

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
