http://www.na.nmfs.gov/soop.html

                            Ships of Opportunity

                               [oleander.jpg]

                     Ship of Opportunity - The Oleander

   Cooperating merchant ships are used by the NMFS Northeast Fisheries
   Science Center to provide approximately monthly monitoring of plankton
   and oceanographic conditions along standard transects across the Gulf
   of Maine
   (Massachusetts to Cape Sable, Nova Scotia) and Middle Atlantic Bight
   (New York to the Gulf Stream). This data is used to monitor changes and
   status of the Northeast U.S. Continental Shelf Ecosystem in relation to
   possible effects on the long-term sustainability and recovery of
   fisheries in the northeast. In 1961, U.K. scientists began monthly
   monitoring of plankton at a depth of 10 meters in the western North
   Atlantic using the Hardy Continuous Plankton Recorder (CPR) aboard
   merchant ships and research vessels on an opportunistic basis.
   Beginning in the late 1960's, NMFS established several interagency and
   international agreements that either started complementary monitoring
   or supported continuation of existing ocean monitoring. Expendable
   bathythermograph and bucket surface temperature and salinity sampling
   were added to the CPR sampling in 1977 under what is now known as the
   Ships of Opportunity (SOOP) program.

   Since 1978, CPR, water column temperature and surface salinity data
   have been routinely collected, approximately monthly, along two
   standard transects across the Gulf of Maine and the Middle Atlantic
   Bight. Sampling is now conducted in the Gulf of Maine between Boston,
   Massachusetts, and Cape Sable, Nova Scotia, currently using the C/V
   Selfoss, Skogaline Ltd. St. John, Antigua. Middle Atlantic Bight
   sampling is from New York to the Gulf Stream along the cruise route of
   the C/V Oleander, Bermuda Container Lines, as it transits between New
   York and Bermuda. Monthly Ecosystem Indices - . Observations along the
   cruise routes, from most recent data collected and processed, are shown
   in comparison with historic-mean conditions for the same time of year.
   The graphs depict surface and bottom temperatures from expendable
   bathythermograph drops (XBT's), surface salinity from bucket samples,
   and total copepoda and phytoplankton biomass from analysis of
   Continuous Plankton Recorder (CPR) tow samples, collected at a depth of
   10 meters.

                                Gulf of Maine

                            Middle Atlantic Bight

   Key publications:

   Benway, R.L., J.W. Jossi, K.P. Thomas and J.R. Goulet. 1993.
   Variability of temperature and salinity in the Middle Atlantic Bight
   and Gulf of Maine. NOAA Tech. Rep. NMFS 112, U.S. Dept. Commerce, 108
   p.

   Jossi, 3.W. and D.E. Smith. 1990. Continuous plankton records:
   Massachusetts to Cape Sable, N.S., and
   New York to the Gulf Stream, 1989. NAFO SCR Doc. 90/66, Ser. No. N1788,
   Northwest Atl. Fish.
   Organ., 11 p.

                                Related Links

                                    SEAS

                         NOAA Marine Observer (VOS)

                                   SOOPIP

                          International Ice Patrol

                        Naval Oceanographic products

               For further information, contact Robert Benway:
                          Robert.L.Benway@Noaa.Gov

                                [banner.gif]

                       | Home | NOAA | NMFS | NEFSC |

                    | Webmaster | Privacy | Disclaimer |

   | Last Updated: 22 January 2001 |

   www.na.nmfs.gov
