http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s663.htm


   NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

          NOAA CALCULATES AMOUNT OF RAINFALL NEEDED TO END DROUGHTS
                             AROUND THE COUNTRY

   NOAA's Drought Calculator June 12, 2001 혰 Several parts of the nation,
   from the Pacific Northwest to the Southeast, are suffering from severe,
   ongoing droughts. Many water managers, journalists, and
   weather-watchers have all asked how much rain would be required to end
   these droughts혰NOAA has the answer.

   NOAA's National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., has calculated
   the amount of rain required to end droughts in the contiguous U.S. and
   the statistical probability that a given area would receive the needed
   rainfall. Calculating these figures is a complex procedure.

   "The severity of the drought, as defined by the Palmer Hydrological
   Drought Index, is the essential starting point for determining the
   needed precipitation," said Jay Lawrimore, who heads the center's
   Climate Monitoring Branch. "Knowing the typical conditions that a
   region experiences during each month and season of the year혰what we
   call that region's climatology혰is also essential. A normally wetter
   region requires more precipitation than a drier region to end the
   drought." The season in which the precipitation falls can also greatly
   influence the amount of precipitation required to end a drought.

   The quantity of rain needed to end a drought says nothing about the
   probability that a region will actually receive that amount of
   precipitation. A region, such as the West Coast, that seldom
   experiences excessively heavy precipitation during the summer, may be
   less likely to receive a quantity sufficient for ending a drought than
   a region that has a record of extreme precipitation events during the
   same season.

   The Asheville center has developed a Web site that takes these and
   other factors into account to answer the questions in a given area. The
   Web site provides information on the amount of rain needed to end
   drought in a given area, the percentage of normal precipitation that
   would end the drought, and the statistical probability that the area
   will receive the precipitation.

   "This last piece of information, the statistical probability, is based
   on past data, and is not meant to be a forecast," Lawrimore said.
   "NOAA's National Weather Service provides current forecasts."

   Relevant Web Sites
   Drought Termination and Amelioration
   NOAA's Drought Information Center
   Media Contact:
   Patricia Viets, NOAA, (301) 457-5005
