http://www.oha.doe.gov/pdf/10cfr710091101.pdf

   47061 Rules and Regulations Federal Register Vol. 66, No. 176 Tuesday,
   September 11, 2001 This section of the FEDERAL REGISTER H. Review Under
   the Treasury and General not already been appealed to the contains
   regulatory documents having general Government Appropriations Act of
   1999 Director, Office of Hearings and applicability and legal effect,
   most of which I. Review Under Small Business Regulatory Appeals, as of
   the effective date of are keyed to and codified in the Code of
   Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 today's regulatory amendments. The
   Federal Regulations, which is published under IV. Conclusion final
   decision in cases that have been 50 titles pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 1510.
   I. Background appealed to the Director, Office of The Code of Federal
   Regulations is sold by DOE published a notice of proposed Hearings and
   Appeals, will be rendered the Superintendent of Documents. Prices of
   rulemaking in the Federal Register on by the Director, Office of
   Security new books are listed in the first FEDERAL August 16, 1999 (64
   FR 44433) to amend Affairs. REGISTER issue of each week. its procedures
   for resolving questions III. Procedural Requirements concerning an
   individual's DOE access A. Executive Order 12866 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
   authorization eligibility. These procedures are codified in subpart A
   of Today's regulatory action has been 10 CFR Part 710 Title 10, Code of
   Federal Regulations, determined not to be a ``significant part 710
   (hereafter referred to as 10 CFR regulatory action'' under Executive
   RIN 1992AA22 part 710). Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review''
   (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Criteria And Procedures for II. Public
   Comments; Changes to Accordingly, today's action was not Determining
   Eligibility for Access to Proposed Rule subject to review under the
   Executive Classified Matter or Special Nuclear DOE did not receive any
   public Order by the Office of Information and Material comments on its
   proposed rule . Regulatory Affairs. In two instances DOE has modified
   AGENCY: Office of Security and B. Review Under the Regulatory Emergency
   Operations, DOE. the proposed rule. First, we have added paragraph (j)
   to § 710.29 (``Final Appeal Flexibility Act ACTION: Final rule.
   Process'') to state the Secretary of The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5
   Energy's authority to exercise the SUMMARY: The Department of Energy
   U.S.C. 601, et seq., requires that a (DOE) is amending procedures for
   authority of the Appeal Panel. This federal agency prepare a regulatory
   making final determinations of addition implements section 5.2(b) of
   flexibility analysis for any rule for eligibility for access to
   classified matter Executive Order No. 12968, which which the agency is
   required to publish and/or special nuclear material. The provides: a
   general notice of proposed purpose of the amendments is to ensure
   Nothing in this (Executive Order) shall rulemaking. Such an analysis is
   not that DOE procedures in this regard prohibit an agency head from
   personally required, however, if the agency conform to the access
   eligibility exercising the appeal authority * * * (of the certifies
   that the rule would not, if determination provisions in Part 5 of
   appeal panel) based upon recommendations promulgated, have a
   significant from an appeals panel. In such case, the Executive Order
   12968, ``Access to economic impact on a substantial decision of the
   agency head shall be final. Classified Information,'' signed by the
   number of small entities (5 U.S.C. President in August 1995. Second,
   DOE has determined that 605(b)). today's rule should be effective DOE
   certifies that today's EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective
   immediately. In the Notice of Proposed September 11, 2001. amendments
   to 10 CFR part 710 will not Rulemaking, DOE stated that the have a
   significant economic impact on FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: A.
   procedures established by today's rule a substantial number of small
   entities. Barry Dalinsky, Policy, Standards and would not apply to
   cases when a This final rule will only change the Analysis Division,
   Office of Safeguards ``notification letter'' (as described in 10
   Department's procedures for access and Security, SO211, Office of
   Security CFR 710.21) already had been issued on authorization
   eligibility determinations. Affairs, U.S. Department of Energy, or
   after the effective date of the The amendments are intended to 19901
   Germantown Road, Germantown, regulation. As proposed, cases in conform
   10 CFR part 710 to the MD 208741290; (301) 9035010. process would be
   conducted under the requirements of Executive Order 12968 SUPPLEMENTARY
   INFORMATION: procedural rules in existence on the and affect only
   individual employees or I. Background date of the notification letter.
   applicants for employment. The rule II. Public Comments; Changes to
   Proposed An agency may apply new procedural does not directly regulate
   small entities. Rule rules in pending proceedings as long as III.
   Procedural Requirements the application of the new procedures C. Review
   Under Executive Order 13132 A. Executive Order 12866 does not impair
   the rights of, or Executive Order 13132 (64 FR 43255, B. Review Under
   the Regulatory Flexibility otherwise cause injury or prejudice to,
   August 4, 1999) imposes certain Act a party. Since the new procedures
   requirements on agencies formulating C. Review Under Executive Order
   13132 principally revise existing appeal and implementing policies or
   D. Review Under the National procedures after a Hearing Officer has
   regulations that preempt State law or Environmental Policy Act E.
   Review Under the Paperwork Reduction issued findings and opinion, DOE
   has that have federalism implications. Act determined that, at the
   option of the Agencies are required to examine the F. Review Under
   Executive Order 12988 individual, the procedures adopted constitutional
   and statutory authority G. Review Under the Unfunded Mandates today
   should be available to any supporting any action that would limit
   Reform Act of 1995 individual in pending cases that have policymaking
   discretion of the States VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001
   PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN:
   11SER1 47062 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September
   11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations and carefully assess the necessity for
   G. Review Under the Unfunded List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 710 such
   actions. DOE has examined today's Mandates Reform Act of 1995
   Administrative practice and rule and has determined that it does not
   Title II of the Unfunded Mandates procedure, Classified information,
   preempt State law and does not have a Reform Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C.
   1531, et Government contracts, Nuclear substantial direct effect on the
   States, on seq., requires each federal agency, to the materials. the
   relationship between the national extent permitted by law, to prepare a
   government and the States, or on the written assessment of the effects
   of any Issued in Washington, DC, on July 24, 2001. distribution of
   power and federal mandate in an agency rule that responsibilities among
   the various may result in the expenditure by state, Spencer Abraham,
   levels of government. No further action local, and tribal governments
   in the Secretary of Energy. is required by Executive Order 13132
   aggregate, or by the private sector, of For the reasons set forth in
   the $100 million or more in any one year. preamble, part 710 of Title
   10 of the D. Review Under the National The Act also requires a federal
   agency Code of Federal Regulations is amended Environmental Policy Act
   to develop an effective process to permit to read as follows. DOE has
   concluded that the final rule timely input by elected officers of
   state, PART 710-CRITERIA AND falls into a class of actions that would
   local, and tribal governments on a PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING not
   individually or cumulatively have a proposed ``significant
   intergovernmental ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO significant impact on the
   human mandate,'' and it requires an agency to develop a plan for giving
   notice and CLASSIFIED MATTER OR SPECIAL environment as determined by
   DOE's opportunity for timely input to NUCLEAR MATERIAL regulations (10
   CFR part 1021, subpart potentially affected small governments D)
   implementing the National before establishing any requirements 1. The
   authority citation for Part 710 Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
   that might significantly or uniquely is revised to read as follows:
   U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). Specifically, the affect small governments. The
   rule Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.; 50 final rule is categorically
   excluded from amendments finalized today do not U.S.C. 2401, et seq.;
   Atomic Energy Act of environmental review as it is strictly impose a
   federal mandate on state, local, 1954, sec. 141, 68 Stat 940, as
   amended (42 procedural (Category Exclusion A6). or tribal governments
   or on the private U.S.C. 2161); Atomic Energy Act of 1954, sec.
   Accordingly, neither an environmental sector. Therefore, the
   requirements of 145, 68 Stat 942, as amended (42 U.S.C. assessment nor
   an environmental Title II of the Unfunded Mandates 2165); Atomic Energy
   Act of 1954, sec. 161, 68 Stat 948, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2201); impact
   statement is required. Reform Act of 1995 do not apply. E.O. 10450, 3
   CFR 19491953 comp., p. 936, E. Review Under the Paperwork H. Review
   Under the Treasury and as amended; E.O. 10865, 3 CFR 19591963 Reduction
   Act General Government Appropriations comp., p. 398, as amended, 3 CFR
   Chap. IV; Act, 1999 E.O. 12958, 3 CFR 1995, comp., p. 333; E.O. No new
   collection of information will 12968, 3 CFR 1995, comp., p. 391. be
   imposed by this rulemaking. Section 654 of the Treasury and Subpart
   A-General Criteria and Accordingly, no clearance by the Office General
   Government Appropriations Procedures for Determining Eligibility of
   Management and Budget is required Act, 1999 (Pub. L. 105277) requires
   federal agencies to issue a Family for Access to Classified Matter or
   under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 Policymaking Assessment for any
   Special Nuclear Material U.S.C. 3501, et seq.). proposed rule or policy
   that may affect F. Review Under Executive Order 12988 family
   well-being. Today's final rule 2. Section 710.1 is amended by does not
   impact on the autonomy or revising paragraph (b) to read as follows:
   Section 3 of Executive Order 12988 integrity of the family institution.
   § 710.1 Purpose. (61 FR 4729) instructs each agency to Accordingly, DOE
   has concluded that it adhere to cerain requirements in is not necessary
   to prepare a Family * * * * * promulgating new regulations and
   Policymaking Statement. (b) This subpart is published to reviewing
   existing regulations. These implement: Executive Order 12968, 60 I.
   Review Under Small Business requirements, set forth in sections 3(a) FR
   40245 (August 7, 1995); Executive Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
   of Order 12958, 60 FR 19825 (April 20, and (b), include eliminating
   drafting 1996 1995); Executive Order 10865, 25 FR errors and ambiguity,
   drafting the 1583 (February 24, 1960), as amended; regulations to
   minimize litigation, As required by 5 U.S.C. 801, DOE will and
   Executive Order 10450, 18 FR 2489 providing clear and certain legal
   report to Congress on the promulgation (April 27, 1954), as amended.
   This standards for affected conduct, and of the rule prior to its
   effective date. The subpart also provides for public promoting
   simplification and burden report will state that it has been
   information: selected provisions of the reduction. Agencies are also
   instructed determined that the rule is not a ``major Atomic Energy Act
   of 1954, as amended, to make every reasonable effort to rule'' as
   defined by 5 U.S.C. 804(3). set forth in appendix A to this subpart;
   ensure that the regulation specifies IV. Conclusion and the 1997
   Adjudicative Guidelines clearly any preemptive effect, effect on The
   Notice of Proposed Rulemaking approved by the President and set forth
   existing Federal law or regulation, and to amend 10 CFR part 710 was
   issued in appendix B to this subpart. retroactive effect; describes any
   by the Assistant Secretary for 3. Section 710.4 is amended by
   administrative proceedings to be Nonproliferation and National
   Security. revising paragraph (c) and adding available prior to judicial
   review and This final rule, however, is being issued paragraph (g) to
   read as follows: any provisions for the exhaustion of by the Secretary.
   The rule applies to all such administrative proceedings; and Department
   of Energy Federal and § 710.4 Policy. defines key terms. The DOE
   certifies contractor employees, including Federal * * * * * that
   today's final rule meets the and contractor employees of the (c) If the
   individual is currently requirements of section 3(a) and (b) of
   National Nuclear Security awaiting a hearing or trial, or has been
   Executive Order 12988. Administration. convicted of a crime punishable
   by VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt
   4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 Federal Register
   / Vol. 66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and
   Regulations 47063 imprisonment of six (6) months or Operations Office
   Manager or (k) Trafficked in, sold, transferred, longer, or is awaiting
   or serving a form Manager means the Manager of a DOE possessed, used,
   or experimented with a of preprosecution probation, suspended
   Operations Office (Albuquerque, drug or other substance listed in the
   or deferred sentencing, court ordered Chicago, Idaho, Nevada, Oak
   Ridge, Schedule of Controlled Substances probation, or parole in
   conjunction with Oakland, Richland, or Savannah River), established
   pursuant to section 202 of an arrest or criminal charges initiated the
   Manager of the Pittsburgh Naval the Controlled Substances Act of 1970
   against the individual for a crime that is Reactors Office, the Manager
   of the (such as marijuana, cocaine, punishable by imprisonment of six
   (6) Schenectady Naval Reactors Office, and, amphetamines, barbiturates,
   narcotics, months or longer, DOE may suspend for Washington, DC area
   cases, the etc.) except as prescribed or processing an application for
   access Director, Office of Safeguards and administered by a physician
   licensed to authorization until such time as the Security. dispense
   drugs in the practice of hearing, trial, criminal prosecution, * * * *
   * medicine, or as otherwise authorized by suspended sentencing,
   deferred 5. Section 710.7 is amended by Federal law. sentencing,
   probation, or parole has revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: (l)
   Engaged in any unusual conduct or been completed. is subject to any
   circumstances which * * * * * § 710.7 Application of the criteria. tend
   to show that the individual is not honest, reliable, or trustworthy; or
   (g) If an individual believes that the (a) The decision as to access
   which furnishes reason to believe that provisions of paragraph (c),
   (d), or (e) of authorization is a comprehensive, the individual may be
   subject to this section have been inappropriately common-sense
   judgment, made after pressure, coercion, exploitation, or applied, a
   written appeal may be filed consideration of all relevant duress which
   may cause the individual with the Director, Office of Safeguards
   information, favorable and unfavorable, to act contrary to the best
   interests of the and Security, DOE Headquarters, within as to whether
   the granting or national security. Such conduct or 30 calendar days of
   the date the continuation of access authorization circumstances
   include, but are not individual was notified of the action. will not
   endanger the common defense limited to, criminal behavior, a pattern
   The Director, Office of Safeguards and and security and is clearly
   consistent of financial irresponsibility, conflicting Security, shall
   act on the written appeal with the national interest. Any doubt as
   allegiances, or violation of any as described in section 710.6(c). to
   an individual's access authorization eligibility shall be resolved in
   favor of commitment or promise upon which 4. Section 710.5 is amended
   by the national security. Absent any DOE previously relied to favorably
   adding in alphabetical order a definition derogatory information, a
   favorable resolve an issue of access authorization for the term
   ``Classified Matter'' and by determination usually will be made as
   eligibility. revising the definitions for ``Local to access
   authorization eligibility. 7. Section 710.9 is revised to read as
   Director of Security,'' ``National follows: Security Information,'' and
   ``Operations * * * * * Office Manager or Manager'' to read as 6.
   Section 710.8 is amended by § 710.9 Action on derogatory information.
   follows: adding the words ``(or National (a) If the reports of
   investigation of an Security)'' between the words individual or other
   reliable information § 710.5 Definitions. ``Sensitive'' and
   ``Positions'' in the first tend to establish the validity and * * * * *
   sentence of paragraph (f) and revising significance of one or more
   items in the Classified Matter means the material paragraphs (g), (h),
   (j), (k), and (l) to read criteria, or of other reliable information of
   thought or expression that is as follows: or facts which are of
   security concern, classified pursuant to statute or although outside
   the scope of the stated § 710.8 Criteria. Executive Order. categories,
   such information shall be * * * * * * * * * * regarded as derogatory
   and create a (g) Failed to protect classified matter, question as to
   the individual's access Local Director of Security means the or
   safeguard special nuclear material; or authorization eligibility.
   Operations Office or Naval Reactors violated or disregarded security or
   (b) If a question arises as to the Office Security and Safeguards
   Division safeguards regulations to a degree which individual's access
   authorization Director, or other similar title; for would be
   inconsistent with the national eligibility, the Local Director of
   Security Washington, DC area cases, the Director, security; or
   disclosed classified shall authorize the conduct of an Headquarters
   Operations Division; for information to a person unauthorized to
   interview with the individual, or other the Idaho Operations Office,
   the receive such information; or violated or appropriate actions, which
   may include Program Manager, Security and disregarded regulations,
   procedures, or a DOE-sponsored mental evaluation, Resource Management
   Division; for the guidelines pertaining to classified or and, on the
   basis of the results of such Pittsburgh Naval Reactors Office, the
   sensitive information technology interview or actions, may authorize
   the Director, Contracts and Securities systems. granting of the
   individual's access Division; for the Savannah River (h) An illness or
   mental condition of authorization. If, in the opinion of the Operations
   Office, the Director, Internal a nature which, in the opinion of a
   Local Director of Security, the question Security Division; and any
   person psychiatrist or licensed clinical as to the individual's access
   designated in writing to serve in one of psychologist, causes or may
   cause, a authorization eligibility has not been the aforementioned
   positions in an significant defect in judgment or favorably resolved,
   he shall submit the ``acting'' capacity. reliability. matter to the
   Manager with a National Security Information means * * * * *
   recommendation that authority be any information that has been (j)
   Been, or is, a user of alcohol obtained to process the individual's
   case determined, pursuant to Executive habitually to excess, or has
   been under administrative review Order 12958 or any predecessor Order,
   diagnosed by a psychiatrist or a licensed procedures. to require
   protection against clinical psychologist as alcohol (c) If the Manager
   agrees that unauthorized disclosure and that is so dependent or as
   suffering from alcohol unresolved derogatory information is designated.
   abuse. present and that appropriate attempts to VerDate 112000 17:02
   Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700
   E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 47064 Federal Register / Vol.
   66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations
   resolve such derogatory information authorization, the Manager shall
   (3) Provide the name and telephone have been unsuccessful, he shall
   notify immediately notify the Director, Office number of the designated
   DOE official the Director, Office of Safeguards and of Safeguards and
   Security, of the action to contact for any further information
   Security, of his proposal to conduct an and the reason(s) therefore. In
   addition, desired concerning the proceedings, administrative review
   proceeding, the Manager, within 10 calendar days of including an
   explanation of the accompanied by an explanation of the the date of
   suspension, shall notify the individual's rights under the Freedom of
   security concerns and a duplicate Director, Office of Safeguards and
   Information and Privacy Acts; and Personnel Security File. If the
   Manager Security, of his proposal to conduct an (4) Include a copy of
   this subpart. believes that the derogatory information administrative
   review proceeding, 10. Section 710.22 is revised to read has been
   favorably resolved, he shall accompanied by an explanation of its as
   follows: direct that access authorization be basis and a duplicate
   Personnel Security granted for the individual. The Manager File. §
   710.22 Initial decision process. may also direct the Local Director of
   (e) Upon receipt of the Manager's (a) The Manager shall make an initial
   Security to obtain additional notification, the Director, Office of
   decision as to the individual's access information in the matter prior
   to Safeguards and Security, shall review authorization eligibility
   based on the deciding whether to grant the individual the matter and
   confer with the Manager existing information in the case if: access
   authorization or to submit a on: (1) The individual fails to respond to
   request for authority to conduct an (1) The institution of
   administrative the notification letter by filing a timely
   administrative review proceeding. A review procedures set forth in §§
   710.20 written request for a hearing before a decision in the matter
   shall be rendered through 710.32; Hearing Officer or fails to respond
   to the by the Manager within 10 calendar days (2) The reinstatement of
   access notification letter after requesting an of its receipt.
   authorization; or extension of time to do so; (d) Upon receipt of the
   Manager's (3) Other actions as the Director (2) The individual's
   response to the notification, the Director, Office of deems
   appropriate. notification letter does not request a Safeguards and
   Security, shall review (f) The Director, Office of Safeguards hearing
   before a Hearing Officer; or the matter and confer with the Manager and
   Security, shall act pursuant to one (3) The Hearing Officer refers the
   on: of these options within 30 calendar days individual's case to the
   Manager in (1) The institution of administrative of the receipt of the
   Manager's accordance with § 710.25(e) or review proceedings set forth
   in notification unless an extension is § 710.26(b). §§ 710.20 through
   710.32; (b) Unless an extension of time is (2) The granting of access
   granted by the Director, Office of granted by the Director, Office of
   authorization; or Security Affairs. Safeguards and Security, the
   Manager's (3) Other actions as the Director 9. Section 710.21 is
   amended by initial decision as to the individual's deems appropriate.
   revising the section heading, paragraphs access authorization
   eligibility shall be (e) The Director, Office of Safeguards (a) and
   (b)(2) and adding paragraph (c) made within 15 calendar days of the and
   Security, shall act pursuant to one to read as follows: date of receipt
   of the information in of these options within 30 calendar days
   paragraph (a) of this section. The of the receipt of the Manager's §
   710.21 Notice to the individual. Manager shall either grant or deny, or
   notification unless an extension is (a) Unless an extension is
   authorized reinstate or revoke, the individual's granted by the
   Director, Office of by the Director, Office of Safeguards and access
   authorization. Security Affairs. Security, within 30 calendar days of
   (c) A letter reflecting the Manager's 8. Section 710.10 is amended by
   receipt of authority to institute initial decision in the individual's
   case revising paragraphs (a) and (d) and administrative review
   procedures, the shall be signed by the Manager and adding paragraphs
   (e) and (f) to read as Manager shall prepare and deliver to the
   delivered to the individual within 15 follows: individual a
   notification letter approved by the local Office of Chief Counsel, or
   calendar days of the date of the Manager's decision unless an extension
   § 710.10 Suspension of access the Office of General Counsel for of time
   is granted by the Director, Office authorization. Headquarters cases.
   Where practicable, of Safeguards and Security. If the (a) If
   information is received that the letter shall be delivered to the
   Manager's initial decision is unfavorable raises a question concerning
   an individual in person. to the individual, the individual shall be
   individual's continued access (b) * * * advised: authorization
   eligibility, the Local (1) * * * (1) Of the Manager's unfavorable
   Director of Security shall authorize (2) The information which creates
   a decision and the reason(s) therefor; action(s), to be taken on an
   expedited substantial doubt regarding the (2) That within 30 calendar
   days from basis, to resolve the question pursuant individual's access
   authorization the date of receipt of the letter, he may to § 710.9(b).
   If the question as to the eligibility (which shall be as file a written
   request for a review of the individual's continued access comprehensive
   and detailed as the Manager's initial decision through the
   authorization eligibility is not resolved national security permits)
   and why that Director, Office of Safeguards and in favor of the
   individual, the Local information creates such doubt. Security, DOE
   Headquarters, to the DOE Director of Security shall submit the * * * *
   * Headquarters Appeal Panel (hereafter matter to the Manager with a (c)
   The notification letter referenced referred to as the ``Appeal
   Panel''); recommendation that the individual's in paragraph (b) of this
   section shall (3) That the Director, Office of access authorization be
   suspended also: Safeguards and Security, may, for good pending the
   final determination (1) Describe the individual's access cause shown,
   at the written request of resulting from the procedures in this
   authorization status until further notice; the individual, extend the
   time for filing subpart. (2) Advise the individual of the right a
   written request for a review of the case * * * * * to representation at
   the individual's by the Appeal Panel; and (d) Following the decision to
   suspend own expense at each and every stage of (4) That if the written
   request for a an individual's DOE access the proceedings; review of the
   Manager's initial decision VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001
   PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN:
   11SER1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11,
   2001 / Rules and Regulations 47065 by the Appeal Panel is not filed
   within (b) If the Hearing Officer's decision is Panel within 20
   calendar days of receipt 30 calendar days of the individual's
   unfavorable to the individual: of the statement. receipt of the
   Manager's letter, the (1) The individual may file with the 14. Sections
   710.29 through 710.34 Manager's initial decision in the case Director,
   Office of Safeguards and are redesignated as §§ 710.30 through shall be
   final. Security, a written request for further 710.35 and a new §
   710.29 is added to review of the decision by the Appeal read as
   follows: § 710.23 [Amended] Panel along with a statement required 11.
   Section 710.23 is amended by by paragraph (e) of this section within §
   710.29 Final appeal process. removing the words ``Operations Office''
   30 calendar days of the individual's (a) The Appeal Panel shall be from
   the section heading. receipt of the Manager's notice; convened by the
   Director, Office of 12. Section 710.27 is amended by (2) The Director,
   Office of Safeguards Security Affairs, to review and render a revising
   the section heading, removing and Security may, for good cause final
   decision in an access authorization the words ``an initial opinion'' in
   the shown, extend the time for filing a eligibility case referred by
   the first sentence of paragraph (a) and request for further review of
   the individual, the Manager, or the Director, adding in their place the
   words ``a decision by the Appeal Panel at the Office of Safeguards and
   Security, in decision,'' by removing paragraphs (e), written request of
   the individual accordance with §§ 710.22, 710.28, and (f), and (g) and
   by revising paragraph (d) provided the request for an extension of
   710.32. to read as follows: time is filed by the individual within 30
   (b) The Appeal Panel shall consist of calendar days of receipt of the
   three members, each of whom shall be § 710.27 Hearing Officer's
   decision. Manager's notice; a DOE Headquarters employee, a United * * *
   * * (3) The Hearing Officer's decision States citizen, and hold a DOE Q
   access (d) The Hearing Officer's decision shall be considered final if
   the authorization. The Director, Office of shall be based on the
   Hearing Officer's individual does not: file a written Security Affairs,
   shall serve as a findings of fact. If, after considering all request
   for a review of the decision by permanent member of the Appeal Panel of
   the factors in light of the criteria set the Appeal Panel or for an
   extension of and as the Appeal Panel Chairman. The forth in this
   subpart, the Hearing Officer time to file a written request for further
   second member of the Appeal Panel is of the opinion that it will not
   review of the decision by the Appeal shall be a DOE attorney designated
   by endanger the common defense and Panel in accordance with paragraphs
   the General Counsel. The head of the security and will be clearly
   consistent (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section; or, file a DOE
   Headquarters element who has with the national interest to grant or
   written request for a further review of cognizance over the individual
   whose reinstate access authorization for the the decision by the Appeal
   Panel after access authorization eligibility is being individual, the
   Hearing Officer shall having been granted an extension of considered
   may designate an employee render a favorable decision; otherwise, time
   to do so. to act as the third member on the the Hearing Officer shall
   render an (c) If the Hearing Officer's decision is Appeal Panel;
   otherwise, the third unfavorable decision. Within 15 favorable to the
   individual, within 30 member will be designated by the calendar days of
   the Hearing Officer's calendar days of the individual's receipt
   Chairman. Only one member of the written decision, the Hearing Officer
   of the Manager's notice: Appeal Panel shall be from the security shall
   provide copies of the decision and (1) The Manager or the Director,
   field. the administrative record to the Office of Safeguards and
   Security, may (c) In filing a written request for a Manager and the
   Director, Office of file a written request for further review review by
   the Appeal Panel in Safeguards and Security. of the decision by the
   Appeal Panel accordance with §§ 710.22 and 710.28, 13. Section 710.28
   is revised to read along with the statement required by the individual,
   or the counsel or as follows: paragraph (e) of this section;
   representative, shall identify the (2) The Director, Office of Security
   relevant issues and may also submit any § 710.28 Action on the Hearing
   Officer's Affairs, may, at the written request of relevant material in
   support of the decision. the Manager or Director, Office of individual.
   The individual's written (a) Within 10 calendar days of receipt
   Safeguards and Security, extend the request and supportive material
   shall be of the decision and the administrative time for filing a
   request for further made a part of the administrative record, unless an
   extension of time is review of the decision by the Appeal record. The
   Director, Office of granted by the Director, Office of Panel; or
   Safeguards and Security, shall provide Safeguards and Security, the
   Manager (3) The Manager, with the staff support to the Appeal Panel as
   shall: concurrence of the Director, Office of requested by the
   Director, Office of (1) Notify the individual in writing of Safeguards
   and Security, shall grant or Security Affairs. the Hearing Officer's
   decision; reinstate the individual's access (d) Within 15 calendar days
   from the (2) Advise the individual in writing of authorization. date of
   receipt of a request for a review the appeal procedures available to
   the (d) A copy of any request for further of a case by the Appeal
   Panel, the individual in paragraph (b) of this review of the
   individual's case by the Director, Office of Security Affairs, section
   if the decision is unfavorable to Appeal Panel filed by the Manager or
   shall: the individual; the Director, Office of Safeguards and (1)
   Request the General Counsel to (3) Advise the individual in writing of
   Security, shall be provided to the designate an attorney who shall
   serve as the appeal procedures available to the individual by the
   Manager. an Appeal Panel member; Manager and the Director, Office of
   (e) The party filing a request for (2) Either request the head of the
   Safeguards and Security, in paragraph review of the individual's case
   by the cognizant DOE element to designate, or (c) of this section if
   the decision is Appeal Panel shall include with the himself designate,
   an employee from favorable to the individual; and, request a statement
   identifying the outside the security field who shall (4) Provide the
   individual and/or issues on which it wishes the Appeal serve as the
   third member of the Appeal counsel or representative, a copy of the
   Panel to focus. A copy of such statement Panel; and Hearing Officer's
   decision and the shall be served on the other party, who (3) Arrange
   for the Appeal Panel administrative record. may file a response with
   the Appeal members to convene to review the VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep
   10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700
   E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 47066 Federal Register / Vol.
   66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations
   administrative record or provide a copy completed and its results
   available for (b) * * * of the administrative record to the other
   review by the Appeal Panel. In such (2) In those cases where the
   Hearing Appeal Panel members for their instances, the Director, Office
   of Officer's decision has been issued, the independent review. Security
   Affairs, shall: application for presentation of new (e) The Appeal
   Panel may initiate an (1) Obtain written approval from the evidence
   shall be referred to the investigation of any statement or Secretary to
   defer review of the material contained in the request for an
   individual's case by the Appeal Panel Director, Office of Security
   Affairs. In Appeal Panel review and use any for an initial interval not
   to exceed 90 the event that the Director, Office of relevant facts
   obtained by such calendar days; Security Affairs, determines that the
   investigation in the conduct of the final (2) Advise the individual and
   new evidence shall be received, he shall decision process. The Appeal
   Panel may appropriate DOE officials in writing of determine the form in
   which it, and the solicit and accept submissions from the initial
   deferral and the reason(s) other party's response, shall be received.
   either the individual or DOE officials therefor; * * * * * that are
   relevant to the final decision (3) Request that the individual's 16.
   Newly redesignated § 710.31 is process and may establish appropriate
   employment status not be affected revised to read as follows: time
   frames to allow for such during the initial and any subsequent
   submissions. The Appeal Panel may deferral interval, except at the
   written § 710.31 Action by the Secretary. also consider any other
   source of request of the individual; (a) Whenever an individual has not
   information that will advance the final (4) Obtain written approval
   from the been afforded an opportunity to cross- decision process,
   provided that both Secretary to extend the deferral for each examine
   witnesses who have furnished parties are afforded an opportunity to
   subsequent 90 calendar day interval and information adverse to the
   individual respond to all third party submissions. advise in writing
   all concerned parties under the provisions of §§ 710.26(l) or All
   information obtained by the Appeal of the Secretary's approval; (o), or
   the opportunity to review and Panel under this section shall be made
   (5) Inform in writing all concerned respond to the information provided
   by a part of the administrative record. parties when the inquiry or (f)
   Within 45 work days of the closing investigation has been completed and
   the Director, Office of Security Affairs, of the administrative record,
   the Appeal the results made available to the Appeal to the Secretary
   under § 710.29(i), only Panel shall render a final written Panel. the
   Secretary may issue a final decision decision in the case predicated
   upon an (i) If, upon receipt of a written request to deny or revoke DOE
   access evaluation of the administrative record, for review of an
   individual's case by the authorization for the individual after
   findings as to each of the allegations Appeal Panel, the Director,
   Office of personally reviewing the administrative contained in the
   notification letter, and Security Affairs, is aware or record and any
   additional material any new evidence that may have been subsequently
   becomes aware of provided by the Director, Office of submitted pursuant
   to § 710.30. If a information that adversely affects the Security
   Affairs. The Secretary's majority of the Appeal Panel members
   individual's DOE access authorization authority may not be delegated
   and may determine that it will not endanger the eligibility and that
   cannot for national be exercised only when the Secretary common defense
   and security and will security reasons be disclosed in the determines
   that the circumstances be clearly consistent with the national
   proceedings before a DOE Hearing described in § 710.26(l) or (o), or
   interest, the Director, Office of Security Officer, the Director may
   refer the § 710.29(i) are present, and such Affairs, shall grant or
   reinstate access information and the administrative determination shall
   be final. authorization for the individual; record to the Secretary for
   the final (b) Whenever the Secretary issues a otherwise, the Director,
   Office of decision as to the individual's DOE final decision as to the
   individual's DOE Security Affairs, shall deny or revoke access
   authorization eligibility. In such access authorization eligibility,
   the access authorization for the individual. instances, the Director,
   Office of individual and other concerned parties The Appeal Panel
   written decision shall Security Affairs, shall notify in writing will
   be notified in writing, by the be made a part of the administrative all
   concerned parties that the Director, Office of Security Affairs, of
   record. individual's case has been provided to that decision and of the
   Secretary's (g) The Director, Office of Security the Secretary for a
   final decision in findings with respect to each of the Affairs, through
   the Director, Office of accordance with § 710.31. allegations contained
   in the notification Safeguards and Security, shall inform in (j) Upon
   the recommendation of the letter and each substantial issue writing the
   individual involved and Appeal Panel, the Secretary may identified in
   the statement in support of counsel or representative of the Appeal
   exercise the appeal authority of the the request for review to the
   extent Panel's final decision. A copy of the Appeal Panel. If the
   Secretary exercises allowed by the national security. correspondence
   shall also be provided the appeal authority, then the decision (c)
   Nothing contained in these to the other panel members and the of the
   Secretary is final. procedures shall be deemed to limit or Manager. 15.
   Newly redesignated § 710.30 is (h) If, upon receipt of a written affect
   the responsibility and powers of amended by removing the word request
   for a review of the individual's the Secretary to issue subpoenas or to
   ``determination'' and adding the word case by the Appeal Panel, the
   Director, deny or revoke access to Restricted Data, ``decision'' in
   paragraph (a) and Office of Security Affairs, is aware or national
   security information, or special removing the words ``an opinion'' and
   subsequently becomes aware of nuclear material. adding the words ``a
   decision'' in information that the individual is the paragraph (b)(1),
   by removing the word (d) Only the Secretary may approve subject of an
   unresolved inquiry or ``getting'' and adding the word initial and
   subsequent requests under investigation of a matter that could
   ``receiving'' in paragraph (b)(1), and by § 710.29(h) by the Director,
   Office of reasonably be expected to affect the revising paragraph
   (b)(2) to read as Security Affairs, to defer the review of individual's
   DOE access authorization follows: an individual's case by the Appeal
   eligibility, the Director may defer action Panel. by the Appeal Panel
   on the request until § 710.30 New evidence. 17. Newly redesignated §
   710.32 is the inquiry or investigation is * * * * * revised to read as
   follows: VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm
   00006 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 Federal
   Register / Vol. 66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and
   Regulations 47067 § 710.32 Reconsideration of access § 710.33
   Terminations. individuals who require access to classified eligibility.
   If the individual is no longer an information. They apply to persons
   being (a) If, pursuant to the procedures set applicant for access
   authorization or no considered for initial or continued eligibility
   forth in §§ 710.20 through 710.31 the longer requires access
   authorization, the for access to classified information, to Manager,
   Hearing Officer, Appeal Panel, procedures of this subpart shall be
   include sensitive compartmented or the Secretary has made a decision
   information and special access programs and terminated without a final
   decision as to are to be used by government departments granting or
   reinstating access the individual's access authorization and agencies
   in all final clearance authorization for an individual, the
   eligibility, unless a final decision has determinations. individual's
   access authorization been rendered prior to the DOE being 2. The
   Adjudicative Process. eligibility shall be reconsidered as a notified
   of the change in the (a) The adjudicative process is an new
   administrative review under the individual's pending access examination
   of a sufficient period of a procedures set forth in this subpart
   authorization status. person's life to make an affirmative when
   previously unconsidered determination that the person is eligible for
   19. Newly redesignated § 710.35 is derogatory information is
   identified, or a security clearance. Eligibility for access to revised
   to read as follows: classified information is predicated upon the the
   individual violates a commitment or individual meeting these personnel
   security promise upon which the DOE § 710.35 Time frames. guidelines.
   The adjudicative process is the previously relied to favorably resolve
   an Statements of time established for careful weighing of a number of
   variables issue of access authorization eligibility. processing aspects
   of a case under this known as the whole person concept. (b) If,
   pursuant to the procedures set subpart are the agency's desired time
   Available, reliable information about the forth in §§ 710.20 through
   710.31 the frames in implementing the procedures person, past and
   present, favorable and Manager, Hearing Officer, Appeal Panel, set
   forth in this subpart. However, unfavorable, should be considered in or
   the Secretary has made a decision reaching a determination. In
   evaluating the failure to meet the time frames shall relevance of an
   individual's conduct, the denying or revoking access have no impact
   upon the final adjudicator should consider the following authorization
   for the individual, the disposition of an access authorization factors:
   individual's access authorization by a Manager, Hearing Officer, the
   (1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of eligibility may be
   reconsidered only Appeal Panel, or the Secretary, and the conduct; when
   the individual so requests, when shall confer no procedural or (2) The
   circumstances surrounding the there is a bona fide offer of employment
   substantive rights upon an individual conduct, to include knowledgeable
   requiring access to Restricted Data, participation; whose access
   authorization eligibility is national security information, or special
   (3) The frequency and recency of the being considered. conduct; nuclear
   material, and when there is 20. Section 710.36 is added to read as (4)
   The individual's age and maturity at the either: time of the conduct;
   (1) Material and relevant new follows: (5) The voluntariness of
   participation; evidence which the individual and the § 710.36 Acting
   officials. (6) The presence or absence of individual's representatives
   are without Except for the Secretary, the rehabilitation and other
   pertinent behavioral fault in failing to present earlier, or
   responsibilities and authorities changes; (2) Convincing evidence of
   conferred in this subpart may be (7) The motivation for the conduct;
   rehabilitation or reformation. (8) The potential for pressure,
   coercion, exercised by persons who have been (c) A request for
   reconsideration shall exploitation, or duress; and designated in
   writing as acting for, or in be submitted in writing to the Director,
   (9) The likelihood of continuation or the temporary capacity of, the
   following Office of Security Affairs, accompanied recurrence. DOE
   positions: The Local Director of (b) Each case must be judged on its
   own by an affidavit setting forth in detail the Security, the Manager,
   the Director, merits, and final determination remains the new evidence
   or evidence of Office of Safeguards and Security, or the responsibility
   of the specific department or rehabilitation or reformation. If the
   General Counsel. The responsibilities agency. Any doubt as to whether
   access to Director, Office of Security Affairs, and authorities of the
   Director, Office of classified information is clearly consistent
   determines that the regulatory with national security will be resolved
   in Security Affairs, may be exercised in his requirements for
   reconsideration have favor of the national security. absence only by
   the Deputy Director, been met, the Director shall notify the (c) The
   ultimate determination of whether Office of Security Affairs.
   individual that the individual's access the granting or continuing of
   eligibility for a security clearance is clearly consistent with
   authorization shall be reconsidered in 21. Appendix B to Subpart A of
   Part the interests of national security must be an accordance with
   established procedures 710 is added to read as follows: overall common
   sense determination based for determining eligibility for access
   Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 710- upon careful consideration of the
   following, authorizations. Adjudicative Guidelines Approved by each of
   which is to be evaluated in the (d) If the individual's access the
   President in Accordance With the context of the whole person concept,
   as authorization is not reinstated following Provisions of Executive
   Order 12968 explained further below: reconsideration, the individual
   shall be (1) Guideline A: Allegiance to the United advised by the
   Director, Office of (The following guidelines, included in this States;
   subpart for reference purposes only, are Safeguards and Security, in
   writing: (2) Guideline B: Foreign influence; reproduced as provided to
   the DOE by the (3) Guideline C: Foreign preference; (1) Of the
   unfavorable action and the Security Policy Board. The President may (4)
   Guideline D: Sexual behavior; reason(s) therefor; and change the
   guidelines without notice.) (5) Guideline E: Personal conduct; (2) That
   within 30 calendar days from (6) Guideline F: Financial considerations;
   the date of receipt of the notification, he Adjudicative Guidelines for
   Determining (7) Guideline G: Alcohol consumption; may file, through the
   Director, Office of Eligibility for Access to Classified (8) Guideline
   H: Drug involvement; Safeguards and Security, DOE Information (9)
   Guideline I: Emotional, mental, and Headquarters, a written request for
   a 1. Introduction. The following adjudicative personality disorders;
   review of the decision by the Appeal guidelines are established for all
   U.S. (10) Guideline J: Criminal Conduct; Panel, in accordance with §
   710.29. government civilian and military personnel, (11) Guideline K:
   Security violations; consultants, contractors, employees of (12)
   Guideline L: Outside activities; 18. Newly redesignated § 710.33 is
   contractors, licensees, certificate holders or (13) Guideline M: Misuse
   of Information revised to read as follows: grantees and their employees
   and other Technology Systems. VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt
   194001 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01
   PsN: 11SER1 47068 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 176 / Tuesday,
   September 11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations (d) Although adverse
   information (c) Involvement in the above activities Guideline C:
   Foreign Preference concerning a single criterion may not be occurred
   for only a short period of time and 9. The Concern. When an individual
   acts sufficient for an unfavorable determination, was attributable to
   curiosity or academic in such a way as to indicate a preference for the
   individual may be disqualified if interest; a foreign country over the
   United States, then available information reflects a recent or (d) The
   person has had no recent he or she may be prone to provide recurring
   pattern of questionable judgment, involvement or association with such
   information or make decisions that are irresponsibility, or emotionally
   unstable activities. harmful to the interests of the United States.
   behavior. Notwithstanding, the whole person 10. Conditions that could
   raise a security concept, pursuit of further investigation may
   Guideline B: Foreign Influence concern and may be disqualifying
   include: be terminated by an appropriate adjudicative 6. The Concern. A
   security risk may exist (a) The exercise of dual citizenship; agency in
   the face of reliable, significant, when an individual's immediate
   family, (b) Possession and/or use of a foreign disqualifying, adverse
   information. including cohabitants and other persons to passport; (e)
   When information of security concern whom he or she may be bound by
   affection, (c) Military service or a willingness to bear becomes known
   about an individual who is influence, or obligation are not citizens of
   the arms for a foreign country; currently eligible for access to
   classified United States or may be subject to duress. (d) Accepting
   educational, medical, or information, the adjudicator should consider
   These situations could create the potential other benefits, such as
   retirement and social whether the person: for foreign influence that
   could result in the welfare, from a foreign country; (1) Voluntarily
   reported the information; compromise of classified information. (e)
   Residence in a foreign country to meet (2) Was truthful and complete in
   Contacts with citizens of other countries or citizenship requirements;
   responding to questions; financial interests in other countries are
   also (f) Using foreign citizenship to protect (3) Sought assistance and
   followed relevant to security determinations if they financial or
   business interests in another professional guidance, where appropriate;
   make an individual potentially vulnerable to country; (4) Resolved or
   appears likely to favorably coercion, exploitation, or pressure. (g)
   Seeking or holding political office in the resolve the security
   concern; 7. Conditions that could raise a security foreign country; (5)
   Has demonstrated positive changes in concern and may be disqualifying
   include: (h) Voting in foreign elections; and behavior and employment;
   (a) An immediate family member, or a (i) Performing or attempting to
   perform (6) Should have his or her access person to whom the individual
   has close ties duties, or otherwise acting, so as to serve the
   temporarily suspended pending final of affection or obligation, is a
   citizen of, or interests of another government in preference
   adjudication of the information. resident or present in, a foreign
   country. (b) Sharing living quarters with a person or to the interests
   of the United States. (f) If after evaluating information of persons,
   regardless of their citizenship status, 11. Conditions that could
   mitigate security security concern, the adjudicator decides that if the
   potential for adverse foreign influence concerns include: the
   information is not serious enough to or duress exists; (a) Dual
   citizenship is based solely on warrant a recommendation of disapproval
   or (c) Relatives, cohabitants, or associates parents' citizenship or
   birth in a foreign revocation of the security clearance, it may who are
   connected with any foreign country; country; be appropriate to
   recommend approval with (d) Failing to report, where required, (b)
   Indicators of possible foreign preference a warning that future
   incidents of a similar associations with foreign nationals; (e.g.,
   foreign military service) occurred before nature may result in
   revocation of access. (e) Unauthorized association with a obtaining
   United States citizenship; Guideline A: Allegiance to the United States
   suspected or known collaborator or employee (c) Activity is sanctioned
   by the United of a foreign intelligence service; States; 3. The
   Concern. An individual must be of (f) Conduct which may make the (d)
   Individual has expressed a willingness unquestioned allegiance to the
   United States. individual vulnerable to coercion, to renounce dual
   citizenship. The willingness to safeguard classified exploitation, or
   pressure by a foreign information is in doubt if there is any reason
   Guideline D: Sexual Behavior government; to suspect an individual's
   allegiance to the (g) Indications that representatives or 12. The
   Concern. Sexual behavior is a United States. nationals from a foreign
   country are acting to security concern if it involves a criminal 4.
   Conditions that could raise a security increase the vulnerability of
   the individual to offense, indicates a personality or emotional concern
   and may be disqualifying include: possible future exploitation,
   coercion or disorder, may subject the individual to (a) Involvement in
   any act of sabotage, pressure; coercion, exploitation, or duress, or
   reflects espionage, treason, terrorism, sedition, or (h) A substantial
   financial interest in a lack of judgment or discretion. (The other act
   whose aim is to overthrow the country, or in any foreign owned or
   operated adjudicator should also consider guidelines Government of the
   United States or alter the business that could make the individual
   pertaining to criminal conduct (Guideline J) form of government by
   unconstitutional vulnerable to foreign influence. and emotional,
   mental, and personality means; 8. Conditions that could mitigate
   security disorders (Guideline I) in determining how to (b) Association
   or sympathy with persons concerns include: resolve the security
   concerns raised by sexual who are attempting to commit, or who are (a)
   A determination that the immediate behavior.) Sexual orientation or
   preference committing, any of the above acts; family member(s) (spouse,
   father, mother, may not be used as a basis for a disqualifying (c)
   Association or sympathy with persons sons, daughters, brothers,
   sisters), cohabitant, factor in determining a person's eligibility for
   or organizations that advocate the overthrow or associate(s) in
   question are not agents of a security clearance. of the United States
   Government, or any state a foreign power or in a position to be 13.
   Conditions that could raise a security or subdivision, by force or
   violence or by exploited by a foreign power in a way that concern and
   may be disqualifying include: other unconstitutional means; could force
   the individual to choose between (a) Sexual behavior of a criminal
   nature, (d) Involvement in activities which loyalty to the person(s)
   involved and the whether or not the individual has been unlawfully
   advocate or practice the United States; prosecuted; commission of acts
   of force or violence to (b) Contacts with foreign citizens are the (b)
   Compulsive or addictive sexual prevent others from exercising their
   rights result of official United States Government behavior when the
   person is unable to stop under the Constitution or laws of the United
   business; a pattern of self-destructive high-risk States or of any
   state. (c) Contact and correspondence with behavior or that which is
   symptomatic of a 5. Conditions that could mitigate security foreign
   citizens are casual and infrequent; personality disorder; concerns
   include: (d) The individual has promptly complied (c) Sexual behavior
   that causes an (a) The individual was unaware of the with existing
   agency requirements regarding individual to be vulnerable to coercion,
   unlawful aims of the individual or the reporting of contacts, requests,
   or threats exploitation, or duress; organization and severed ties upon
   learning from persons or organizations from a foreign (d) Sexual
   behavior of a public nature and/ of these; country; or that which
   reflects lack of discretion or (b) The individual's involvement was
   only (e) Foreign financial interests are minimal judgment. with the
   lawful or humanitarian aspects of and not sufficient to affect the
   individual's 14. Conditions that could mitigate security such an
   organization; security responsibilities. concerns include: VerDate
   112000 17:02 Sep 10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4700 Sfmt
   4700 E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 Federal Register / Vol. 66,
   No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations 47069 (a)
   The behavior occurred during or prior has subsequently provided correct
   influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse, or to adolescence and there
   is no evidence of information voluntarily; other criminal incidents
   related to alcohol subsequent conduct of a similar nature; (c) The
   individual made prompt, good-faith use; (b) The behavior was not recent
   and there efforts to correct the falsification before being (b)
   Alcohol-related incidents at work, such is no evidence of subsequent
   conduct of a confronted with the facts; as reporting for work or duty
   in an similar nature; (d) Omission of material facts was caused
   intoxicated or impaired condition, or (c) There is no other evidence of
   or significantly contributed to by improper or drinking on the job;
   questionable judgment, irresponsibility, or inadequate advice of
   authorized personnel, (c) Diagnosis by a credentialed medical emotional
   instability; and the previously omitted information was professional
   (e.g., physician, clinical (d) The behavior no longer serves as a basis
   promptly and fully provided; psychologist, or psychiatrist) of alcohol
   abuse for coercion, exploitation, or duress. (e) The individual has
   taken positive steps or alcohol dependence; (d) Evaluation of alcohol
   abuse or alcohol Guideline E: Personal Conduct to significantly reduce
   or eliminate vulnerability to coercion, exploitation, or dependence by
   a licensed clinical social 15. The Concern. Conduct involving duress;
   worker who is a staff member of a recognized questionable judgment,
   untrustworthiness, (f) A refusal to cooperate was based on alcohol
   treatment program; unreliability, lack of candor, dishonesty, or advice
   from legal counsel or other officials (e) Habitual or binge consumption
   of unwillingness to comply with rules and that the individual was not
   required to alcohol to the point of impaired judgment; regulations
   could indicate that the person comply with security processing (f)
   Consumption of alcohol, subsequent to may not properly safeguard
   classified requirements and, upon being made aware of a diagnosis of
   alcoholism by a credentialed information. The following will normally
   the requirement, fully and truthfully medical professional and
   following result in an unfavorable clearance action or provided the
   requested information; completion of an alcohol rehabilitation
   administrative termination of further (g) Association with persons
   involved in program. processing for clearance eligibility: criminal
   activities has ceased. 23. Conditions that could mitigate security (a)
   Refusal to undergo or cooperate with concerns include: required
   security processing, including Guideline F: Financial Considerations
   (a) The alcohol related incidents do not medical and psychological
   testing; or 18. The Concern. An individual who is indicate a pattern;
   (b) Refusal to complete required security financially overextended is
   at risk of having (b) The problem occurred a number of forms, releases,
   or provide full, frank and to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
   years ago and there is no indication of a truthful answers to lawful
   questions of Unexplained affluence is often linked to recent problem;
   investigators, security officials or other proceeds from financially
   profitable criminal (c) Positive changes in behavior supportive
   official representatives in connection with a acts. of sobriety;
   personnel security or trustworthiness 19. Conditions that could raise a
   security (d) Following diagnosis of alcohol abuse or determination.
   concern and may be disqualifying include: alcohol dependence, the
   individual has 16. Conditions that could raise a security (a) A history
   of not meeting financial successfully completed inpatient or concern
   and may be disqualifying also obligations; outpatient rehabilitation
   along with aftercare include: (b) Deceptive or illegal financial
   practices requirements, participated frequently in (a) Reliable,
   unfavorable information such as embezzlement, employee theft, check
   meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous or a provided by associates,
   employers, fraud, income tax evasion, expense account similar
   organization, has abstained from coworkers, neighbors, and other
   alcohol for a period of at least 12 months, fraud, filing deceptive
   loan statements, and acquaintances; and received a favorable prognosis
   by a other intentional financial breaches of trust; (b) The deliberate
   omission, concealment, credentialed medical professional or a (c)
   Inability or unwillingness to satisfy or falsification of relevant and
   material facts licensed clinical social worker who is a staff debts;
   from any personnel security questionnaire, member of a recognized
   alcohol treatment (d) Unexplained affluence; personal history
   statement, or similar form program. (e) Financial problems that are
   linked to used to conduct investigations, determine gambling, drug
   abuse, alcoholism, or other Guideline H: Drug Involvement employment
   qualifications, award benefits or issues of security concern. 24. The
   Concern. status, determine security clearance 20. Conditions that could
   mitigate security (a) Improper or illegal involvement with eligibility
   or trustworthiness, or award concerns include: drugs raises questions
   regarding an fiduciary responsibilities; (a) The behavior was not
   recent; individual's willingness or ability to protect (c) Deliberately
   providing false or (b) It was an isolated incident; classified
   information. Drug abuse or misleading information concerning relevant
   (c) The conditions that resulted in the dependence may impair social or
   and material matters to an investigator, behavior were largely beyond
   the person's occupational functioning, increasing the risk security
   official, competent medical control (e.g., loss of employment, a
   business of an unauthorized disclosure of classified authority, or
   other official representative in downturn, unexpected medical
   emergency, information. connection with a personnel security or or a
   death, divorce or separation); (b) Drugs are defined as mood and
   behavior trustworthiness determination. (d) The person has received or
   is receiving altering substances and include: (1) Drugs, (d) Personal
   conduct or concealment of counseling for the problem and there are
   materials, and other chemical compounds information that may increase
   an individual's clear indications that the problem is being identified
   and listed in the Controlled vulnerability to coercion, exploitation,
   or resolved or is under control; Substances Act of 1970, as amended
   (e.g., duress, such as engaging in activities which, (e) The affluence
   resulted from a legal marijuana or cannabis, depressants, if known, may
   affect the person's personal, source; and narcotics, stimulants, and
   hallucinogens), professional, or community standing or (f) The
   individual initiated a good-faith and (2) inhalants and other similar
   render the person susceptible to blackmail; effort to repay overdue
   creditors or otherwise substances. (e) A pattern of dishonesty or rule
   resolve debts. (c) Drug abuse is the illegal use of a drug violations,
   including violation of any written or use of a legal drug in a manner
   that or recorded agreement made between the Guideline G: Alcohol
   Consumption deviates from approved medical direction. individual and
   the agency; 21. The Concern. Excessive alcohol 25. Conditions that
   could raise a security (f) Association with persons involved in
   consumption often leads to the exercise of concern and may be
   disqualifying include: criminal activity. questionable judgment,
   unreliability, failure (a) Any drug abuse (see above definition); 17.
   Conditions that could mitigate security to control impulses, and
   increases the risk of (b) Illegal drug possession, including concerns
   include: unauthorized disclosure of classified cultivation, processing,
   manufacture, (a) The information was unsubstantiated or information due
   to carelessness. purchase, sale, or distribution; not pertinent to a
   determination of judgment, 22. Conditions that could raise a security
   (c) Diagnosis by a credentialed medical trustworthiness, or
   reliability; concern and may be disqualifying include: professional
   (e.g., physician, clinical (b) The falsification was an isolated (a)
   Alcohol-related incidents away from psychologist, or psychiatrist) of
   drug abuse or incident, was not recent, and the individual work, such
   as driving while under the drug dependence; VerDate 112000 17:02 Sep
   10, 2001 Jkt 194001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700
   E:\FR\FM\11SER1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 11SER1 47070 Federal Register / Vol.
   66, No. 176 / Tuesday, September 11, 2001 / Rules and Regulations (d)
   Evaluation of drug abuse or drug Guideline J: Criminal Conduct
   Guideline M: Misuse of Information dependence by a licensed clinical
   social 30. The Concern. A history or pattern of Technology Systems
   worker who is a staff member of a recognized criminal activity creates
   a doubt about a 39. The Concern. Noncompliance with drug treatment
   program; person's judgment, reliability and rules, procedures,
   guidelines, or regulations (e) Failure to successfully complete a drug
   trustworthiness. pertaining to information technology systems treatment
   program prescribed by a 31. Conditions that could raise a security may
   raise security concerns about an credentialed medical professional.
   Recent concern and may be disqualifying include: individual's
   trustworthiness, willingness, drug involvement, especially following
   the (a) Allegations or admissions of criminal and ability to properly
   protect classified granting of a security clearance, or an conduct,
   regardless of whether the person systems, networks, and information.
   expressed intent not to discontinue use, will was formally charged;
   Information Technology Systems include all almost invariably result in
   an unfavorable (b) A single serious crime or multiple related equipment
   used for the determination. lesser offenses. communication,
   transmission, processing, 26. Conditions that could mitigate security
   32. Conditions that could mitigate security manipulation, and storage
   of classified or concerns include: concerns include: sensitive
   information. (a) The drug involvement was not recent; (a) The criminal
   behavior was not recent; 40. Conditions that could raise a security (b)
   The drug involvement was an isolated (b) The crime was an isolated
   incident; concern and may be disqualifying include: or aberrational
   event; (c) The person was pressured or coerced (a) Illegal or
   unauthorized entry into any (c) A demonstrated intent not to abuse any
   into committing the act and those pressures information technology
   system; drugs in the future; are no longer present in that person's
   life; (b) Illegal or unauthorized modification (d) Satisfactory
   completion of a prescribed (d) The person did not voluntarily commit
   destruction, manipulation or denial of access drug treatment program,
   including the act and/or the factors leading to the to information
   residing on an information rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,
   violation are not likely to recur; technology system; without
   recurrence of abuse, and a favorable (e) Acquittal; (c) Removal (or
   use) of hardware, software, prognosis by a credentialed medical (f)
   There is clear evidence of successful or media from any information
   technology professional. rehabilitation. system without authorization,
   when Guideline K: Security Violations specifically prohibited by rules,
   procedures, Guideline I: Emotional, Mental, and guidelines or
   regulations; Personality Disorders 33. The Concern. Noncompliance with
   security regulations raises doubt about an (d) Introduction of
   hardware, software, or 27. The Concern. Emotional, mental, and
   individual's trustworthiness, willingness, media into any information
   technology personality disorders can cause a significant and ability to
   safeguard classified system without authorization, when defect in an
   individual's psychological, information. specifically prohibited by
   rules, procedures, social and occupational functioning. These 34.
   Conditions that could raise a security guidelines or regulations.
   disorders are of security concern because concern and may be
   disqualifying include: 41. Conditions that could mitigate security they
   may indicate a defect in judgment, (a) Unauthorized disclosure of
   classified concerns include: reliability, or stability. A credentialed
   mental information; (a) The misuse was not recent or health
   professional (e.g., clinical psychologist (b) Violations that are
   deliberate or significant; or psychiatrist), employed by, acceptable to
   multiple or due to negligence. (b) The conduct was unintentional or or
   approved by the government, should be 35. Conditions that could
   mitigate security inadvertent; utilized in evaluating potentially
   concerns include actions that: (c) The introduction or removal of media
   disqualifying and mitigating information (a) Were inadvertent; was
   authorized; fully and properly, and particularly for (b) Were isolated
   or infrequent; (d) The misuse was an isolated event; consultation with
   the individual's mental (c) Were due to improper or inadequate (e) The
   misuse was followed by a prompt, health care provider. training; good
   faith effort to correct the situation. 28. Conditions that could raise
   a security (d) Demonstrate a positive attitude towards [FR Doc. 0122486
   Filed 91001; 8:45 am] concern and may be disqualifying include: the
   discharge of security responsibilities. BILLING CODE 645001P (a) An
   opinion by a credentialed mental Guideline L: Outside Activities health
   professional that the individual has a condition or treatment that may
   indicate a 36. The Concern. Involvement in certain defect in judgment,
   reliability, or stability; types of outside employment or activities is
   DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (b) Information that suggests that an of
   security concern if it poses a conflict with individual has failed to
   follow appropriate an individual's security responsibilities and 12 CFR
   Part 1510 medical advice relating to treatment of a could create an
   increased risk of condition, e.g., failure to take prescribed
   unauthorized disclosure of classified RIN 1550AA79 medication;
   information. (c) A pattern of high-risk, irresponsible, 37. Conditions
   that could raise a security Resolution Funding Corporation aggressive,
   anti-social or emotionally concern and may be disqualifying include
   Operations any service, whether compensated, unstable behavior;
   volunteer, or employment with: (d) Information that suggests that the
   AGENCY: Department of the Treasury. (a) A foreign country; individual's
   current behavior indicates a (b) Any foreign national; ACTION:
   Affirmation of interim rule as defect in his or her judgment or
   reliability. (c) A representative of any foreign interest; final, with
   amendments. 29. Conditions that could mitigate security (d) Any
   foreign, domestic, or international clearance concerns include:
   organization or person engaged in analysis, SUMMARY: The Secretary of
   the Treasury (a) There is no indication of a current discussion, or
   publication of material on (Secretary) is adopting as a final rule,
   problem; intelligence, defense, foreign affairs, or with amendments, an
   interim rule that (b) Recent opinion by a credentialed protected
   technology. amended the Treasury Department's mental health
   professional that an
