http://www.wvnb.uscourts.gov/newpage4.htm




   FORWORD

   If bankruptcy law was a body of water, it would not be clean drinking
   water - it would be murky, yucky sludge. In practice, only a very, very
   few attorneys can wade through this area of law except when the
   client-debtor has few assets and an uncomplicated debt profile [what we
   call the "no asset" Chapter 7 (liquidation) case]. The Bankruptcy Code
   and Official Rules, together, make up a real legal maze. The big
   problem in "reading" bankruptcy law is not in understanding cases or
   particular code sections, but rather in being able to absorb all of the
   numerous cross-references within the code itself. Likewise,
   understanding a particular bankruptcy issue might require a thorough
   knowledge of the UCC. In any event, practicing bankruptcy law, even
   rather routine bankruptcy law, can be totally perplexing for those who
   only dabble in its offerings.

   PLEASE DO NOT BE OFFENDED BY THE SOMETIMES ELEMENTARY NATURE OF THIS
   WRITING. Our principal aim in designing this Guide was to try to
   explain bankruptcy in the simplest of terms ... not to offend you. Our
   effort has been to put together a "reference" booklet which can be
   read, and for the most part understood, by paralegals and secretaries
   as well as the casual bankruptcy practitioner. Don't cite to this
   handbook. Don't even rely on its contents to the exclusion of the Code
   or Rules. As often as possible, we have cited to important Code or Rule
   provisions so that you can go to the source and make your own legal
   judgments. On the other hand, if you are wondering how you go about
   getting relief from the automatic stay, or whether the stay applies to
   your creditor/client, or what "lien avoidance" means, ... this Guide
   will help you understand those concepts as well as help you understand
   bankruptcy generally.

   This Guide is a starting point, not a definitive, scholarly, treatise
   on Bankruptcy. However, be assured that you will get a handle on most
   bankruptcy concepts if you read the appropriate section in this
   document.

   A few people have assisted in this final product and many thanks are
   extended to:


                    L. Edward Friend II, Bankruptcy Judge

                     Michael Clagett, Fairmont Attorney

            Sharon Holliday, Executive Secretary to Judge Friend

                Anita Swaton, Chief Deputy Clerk (Bankruptcy)

                Chris Warsinsky, Systems Manager (Bankruptcy)

                  Bankruptcy Court for the District of N.M.


   WHAT IS "BANKRUPTCY"?

    PART I

       INTRODUCTION

      SOME BANKRUPTCY TERMINOLOGY

       THE COURT

       THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY

       HISTORY OF BANKRUPTCY - A Tiny Bit

       AN OVERVIEW OF THE TYPES OF BANKRUPTCIES

           CHAPTER 7 LIQUIDATION

           CHAPTER 13 DEBT ADJUSTMENT

           CHAPTER 11 REORGANIZATION

           CHAPTER 12 - THE FAMILY FARMER BANKRUPTCY

           THE CHAPTER 9 CASE - ADJUSTING DEBTS OF A MUNICIPALITY

   PART II

       THE PLAYERS

       FRESH START

       TOOLS NEEDED TO PRACTICE BANKRUPTCY

       CONTESTED MATTERS & ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGS

       THE PETITION, SCHEDULES & SIGNATURES

       THE MAILING MATRIX

       EXEMPTIONS

       VOLUNTARY vs. INVOLUNTARY

       AMENDMENTS

       FEES

       CASE ADMINISTRATION - AN OVERVIEW

           HOW A CASE PROCEEDS

           ADMINISTERING A BANKRUPTCY CASE - The Estate

           LIQUIDATING THE ESTATE

               Abandonments

               Reaffirmations

               Redemptions

               Sale & Distribution

               Exemptions

   PART III

       THE MEETING OF CREDITORS

       THE AUTOMATIC STAY

       THE DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY

       CONVERSION OF CASES

       MORE ON EXEMPTIONS

       EXECUTORY CONTRACTS & UNEXPIRED LEASES

   CLAIMS

   AVOIDING LIENS

   PREFERENCES

   JURISDICTION, VENUE AND RELATED PROCEDURE

       Venue

       Jurisdiction

       Withdrawal of Reference

       Core vs. Non-Core

       Removal & Remand

       Abstention

   ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGS

   APPEALS

                            WHAT IS "BANKRUPTCY"?

   "Bankruptcy" means insolvency, or the inability to pay ones debts.
   Bankruptcy has this meaning whether we are talking about an individual,
   or a married couple, or a partnership, or a corporation - if any of
   these entities are unable to pay their financial obligations as they
   become due, they may be "bankrupt". However, no matter how poor one may
   become, or no matter how far behind in payment of bills, a person or
   business does not become "Bankrupt" until bankruptcy is DECLARED by the
   filing of a petition in bankruptcy. Until a person declares bankruptcy
   by filing a petition, they may be considered just insolvent, or broke,
   or destitute, or a deadbeat ... It is the bankruptcy filing which
   causes the concept of bankruptcy to kick in.

   Ordinarily, when a person or company gets in over their head and cannot
   pay back their debts, they seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws
   by voluntarily filing a petition in bankruptcy. On the other hand,
   sometimes a person just keeps thinking "Just a little more time and I
   can pay my bills", or simply ignores their obligations; if this
   happens, the creditor may want to put the person in bankruptcy. This
   can be done and it is called an involuntary bankruptcy - when creditors
   force a person or company into bankruptcy. The concept of voluntary vs.
   involuntary will be taken up in a little more detail later.

   The simplest way to determine whether one might need to file bankruptcy
   is to compare their "assets" to their "liabilities". When liabilities
   exceed assets then a person may well have a financial problem. As a
   general proposition, everyone who files bankruptcy has more debts or
   liabilities than they have assets. The purpose of bankruptcy is to
   provide a way for a person or business to get rid of their debts so
   that they can get a fresh start in their financial life. Bankruptcy is
   a way to get rid of some debts - principally UNsecured debts.



                                    PART I

   INTRODUCTION

   This attorney Guide is written with the intention of providing the
   reader with a very elementary overview of a sometimes complex, often
   procedurally intricate, area of the law - BANKRUPTCY. The only
   assumption which has been made with regard to the prior extent of
   knowledge of the reader is that the reader has little or no knowledge
   of the bankruptcy process, and you should be aware that this manual
   will not provide an in-depth analysis of substantive bankruptcy law.
   The attempt here is to provide the new or casual bankruptcy
   practitioner with a fair grasp of what is required to successfully
   prepare, file, manage, and close a typical bankruptcy case. The
   "typical" bankruptcy case is what is generally known as a "no asset"
   case. This Guide will generally focus on the consumer-debtor whose
   liabilities equal, or exceed, his assets. On the other hand, you will
   be introduced to several less usual bankruptcy concepts which are vital
   to a basic understanding of bankruptcy law. For instance, while
   "preference" issues do not surface in every bankruptcy case, this is a
   concept which must be understood in some measure in order to provide
   proper counsel to your client. Finally, while the focus of the Guide
   will be on concepts related to a Chapter 7 (liquidation) case, you will
   also be introduced to the most commonly utilized "reorganization"
   chapters of the Bankruptcy Code - Chapter 11 and Chapter 13.

   While this guide will not make you a commercial law expert, it will
   prepare you for the most ordinary bankruptcy concepts you will
   encounter and will alert you to critical bankruptcy issues. Most
   importantly, however, you will be provided with a foundation upon which
   you can become a bankruptcy expert. This Guide should permit you to
   file a case with some confidence, show you what to expect, and allow
   you to manage the "typical" case.

   Where appropriate, charts or diagrams will be included to help
   illustrate certain concepts or processes.

   The format of this Guide is as follows: PART I is a very basic
   introduction to the federal court system and summarizes the various
   bankruptcy chapters under the federal code; PART II is an introduction
   to elementary bankruptcy concepts, particularly as they relate to a
   Chapter 7 liquidation case; PART III is made up of a number of sections
   which explain in more detail many of the most used bankruptcy tools and
   concepts; PART IV is an appendix of common forms; and PART V is
   basically a "how to ..." appendix of lists or instructions.

   There is absolutely no shortage of bankruptcy writings called
   "Introduction to ..." or "nuts-and-bolts", but most such writings
   assume a pretty firm foundation in bankruptcy and commercial law. This
   Guide to Bankruptcy is really an attempt to introduce even a lay reader
   to the basic concepts of filing and managing a bankruptcy case.

   A risk in putting together an elementary booklet such as this is that
   it could cause complacency in the reader which may, in turn, cause the
   reader not to explore critical concepts in sufficient depth.


   SOME BANKRUPTCY TERMINOLOGY

   Debtor
   : Once a person or business files bankruptcy they become known as a
   "debtor" for purposes of bankruptcy law. Generally, a "debtor" is
   anyone who owes money to another - whether or not we are talking about
   bankruptcy. If we buy a couch from the furniture store on credit, we
   are a "debtor" as to the store.

   Creditor
   : A person or business which extends credit to another person or
   business is called a "creditor". Thus, if we buy a couch from the
   furniture store on credit, the store becomes a "creditor" of ours. Any
   time you buy something and still owe money on the item, whether a
   house, a car, or a couch, a debtor-creditor relationship is formed.

   Secured Creditor
   : Generally, when a person makes a big purchase (like a house or a car)
   and a bank (or other sophisticated lender) finances the purchase - they
   make the purchaser (borrower or debtor ...) give collateral for the
   loan. Therefore, if the borrower fails to pay the money, the bank
   (lender) can seize (repossess) the collateral. Thus, if you borrow
   $50,000 on a house, the bank will give you the $50,000 but keep the
   house as collateral. The way that the bank can prove that it lent you
   money and kept the house as collateral is through legal documents like,
   in the case of a house, a note and a deed of trust. The note and the
   deed of trust are security instruments which help make the loan a
   "secured transaction".

   The secured creditor normally records these security documents in the
   courthouse in order to "perfect" its secured position. A "secured
   creditor" which has perfected" is position (by recording) is well
   protected because they either get the money or get the property. And,
   no other creditor can get the property first, unless they took the same
   property as collateral and perfected their interest first.

   Collateral
   : Something of value which is pledged to insure the payment of a loan.
   Thus, you may pledge your automobile to the bank to insure the bank
   that you will repay the $10,000 loan they gave you to buy the auto.

   U
   nsecured Creditor: UNsecured creditors do not keep collateral to
   "secure" their right to repayment of the money. So, if your mom loans
   you $1,000 for a fishing trip and you promise to pay her back, she
   becomes an UNsecured creditor - she has no security instrument and
   holds no collateral. Most credit transactions are UNsecured because no
   collateral is taken by the creditor (merchant, ...) and no documents
   are prepared and recorded. When you deal with companies like Sears,
   your dress shop, the auto repair shop, or MasterCard, an UNsecured
   transaction ordinarily takes place.

   Debtor-in-Possession
   : This is a unique term used only in a bankruptcy context. A
   Debtor-in-Possession in bankruptcy is an ordinary debtor which KEEPS
   possession of his property. Generally, when a bankruptcy is filed, you
   lose all of your property - all of your property is put into what is
   called an "estate". However, if you file a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, you
   keep all of your property and that is why you are called a
   "Debtor-in-Possession".

   Estate
   : An "estate" is created when the bankruptcy case is filed. The
   "estate" consists of ALL property of the debtor. This means that when
   the bankruptcy case is filed, all of your property, including your
   house, your car, your furniture, your savings, money that people owe
   you etc... ALL get put into this "estate" which has been created by the
   bankruptcy filing.

   Asset
   : "Assets" include property, of any type or kind, which were OWNED by
   the debtor prior to the bankruptcy filing. Examples of "assets" are
   cash, or a car that the debtor has completely paid for, or items of
   furniture upon which no money is owed, or any other item in which the
   debtor had EQUITY when the case was filed. "Equity" is an important and
   simple concept. Say you own a house which you bought for $40,000 ten
   years ago with no money down. Today, because of increased property
   values, the house is worth $50,000 ($50,000 is its "fair market
   value"). Without even taking into consideration the payments which you
   have made over ten years, you already have $10,000 worth of "equity" in
   the house (because it has increased in value). Now, you add the amount
   you have paid on the principal of the house over ten years - say
   $6,000. So, as you can see, you have $16,000 in "equity" in the house
   or you have an "asset" worth $16,000.

   Liability
   : As "asset" is what you OWN, "liability" is what you OWE. For
   instance, say your mother loaned you $1,000 to go on a fishing trip and
   you had not paid that money back at the time you filed bankruptcy. This
   $1,000 is a "debt" or a "liability". If you owe $33,000 on that new
   300ZX that you bought just before you filed bankruptcy, that $33,000
   represents a "liability".

   Liquidate
   : To "liquidate" simply means to get rid of, or to sell, or to convert
   into cash.

   Possessory vs. Non-possessory Security Interest
   : These terms presuppose a secured transaction. A "possessory" security
   interest means that the lender/seller has retained the item purchased
   until the entire purchase price has been paid. Thus, a "non-possessory"
   security interest means that the lender/seller has released the item
   purchased to the buyer, but retains a security interest.

   Purchase Money vs. Non- Purchase Money Security Interest
   : These terms presuppose a secured transaction. A "purchase money"
   security interest is created when the lender extends the loan for a
   specific item and retains a security interest in the specific item(s)
   purchased. On the other hand, a "non-purchase money" security interest
   means that the lender is collateralized by something other than the
   item purchased. e.g., the lender takes an interest in "all household
   goods and furnishings" to secure the $2,000.00 loan extended.



   THE COURT

   The following brief section of PART I of your Elementary Guide will
   introduce you to the gross structure of the federal judiciary, the
   federal courts in your federal circuit (the Fourth Circuit Court of
   Appeals), the federal courts in this State, and the focus will be upon
   the federal court as it is currently constituted in the Northern
   District of West Virginia. If you do not have a practice which includes
   much federal court work this little summary may indeed be
   informational. Since this is a guide to bankruptcy, and since the
   bankruptcy court is a federal court, and since your appellate recourse
   does extend directly to the United States Supreme Court, you may find
   this part of your guide to be of value.


   THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY

   The flow chart at the end of this PART reveals rather concisely the
   makeup of the entire Third Branch of the federal government.

   As you all know, Article III of the U.S. Constitution vests the
   judicial power of the United States into one supreme court and "such
   inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and
   establish". Since the time of the Constitution, about 13 federal
   appellate courts (originally created in 1891 to relieve the Supreme
   Court of its extreme and ever-growing burden) and trial courts in 94
   districts have been created. Judges of each of the these courts are
   appointed to a lifetime term by the President with the consent of the
   Senate. The U.S. Magistrate and Bankruptcy Courts were created in order
   to help alleviate the growing trial burdens placed upon America's
   district courts. The Bankruptcy Court and Magistrate Judge Courts are
   units of the district courts and have been created under Article I of
   the Constitution. Congress has created several other "legislative
   courts" like the U.S. Court of Claims and the Court of International
   Trade, with very specialized jurisdiction.


   HISTORY OF BANKRUPTCY - A Tiny Bit

   The term bankruptcy itself is derived from the word banca (bench) and
   rotta (broken), thus literally meaning the broken bench of a failed
   trader. Until fairly recent history, people who overextended themselves
   financially were dealt with pretty harshly - like creditors in ancient
   Rome being permitted to literally divide a debtor's body into pieces
   or, in the alternative, selling the debtor and his family into slavery
   and using the proceeds of the sale to satisfy debt. Until modern times,
   death (for fraudulent misconduct), public pillory, and imprisonment
   were common remedies for failure to pay one's debts. Early bankruptcy
   laws were a reaction to this severity and provided a mechanism for
   seizing the debtor=s property and systematically dividing it among all
   creditors, thus relieving the competition among creditors.

   The first English system of bankruptcy was established by Henry VIII in
   1542. This system was similar to the criminal law in that the debtor
   was "charged" with the crime of bankruptcy; a creditor filed an act of
   bankruptcy against the debtor. Under this method, there was no
   discharge of debts, and once the debtor=s property was liquidated and
   distributed, his future holdings could be seized to pay unsatisfied
   obligations. Early English law also included imprisonment and even the
   death sentence. The concept of discharge of debts, even in rudimentary
   form, did not come about until 1705.

   Until adoption of the U.S. Constitution, each state was free to create
   its own insolvency laws. With passage of the Constitution the first
   federal bankruptcy law came in to effect in 1787.

   Today, particularly when compared to past practices, legislative
   schemes to deal with destitute individuals and businesses have evolved
   into a very liberal system. Indeed, most people in America are now able
   to avail themselves of the bankruptcy laws and rid themselves of most
   of their debt while keeping most of their essential property (house,
   car, furniture, ...).


   AN OVERVIEW OF THE TYPES OF BANKRUPTCIES

   CHAPTER 7 LIQUIDATION

   This summary contains general information about Chapter 7 of the United
   States Bankruptcy Code, also known as a "liquidation" bankruptcy. While
   the information presented is accurate as of the date of writing, it
   should not be cited or relied upon as legal authority. Likewise, this
   information should not be used as a substitute for reference to the
   United States Bankruptcy Code (Title 11, United States Code) and the
   Official Bankruptcy Rules of Procedure, both of which may be reviewed
   at local law libraries.

   Background

   Chapter 7
   is designed for businesses and individuals that wish to make a fresh
   financial start but who are not able to pay their debts from their
   present income. Under this chapter, the individual debtor is permitted
   to keep or "exempt" certain property. The property which remains is
   "liquidated" - sold by the court appointed trustee - and the money from
   the sale is paid to the creditors. Most individuals, corporations and
   partnerships are eligible to file a Chapter 7 case. However, one cannot
   file if, within the preceding 180 days, they had a case dismissed "for
   cause", or they voluntarily dismissed their case after creditors were
   given permission by the court to recover property upon which they held
   liens.

   At the end of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case, the individual debtor
   receives a "discharge". In effect, the discharge cancels the debtor's
   obligations to pay unsecured debts which were listed in the bankruptcy
   schedules. There are some debts which might not be discharged in the
   bankruptcy proceeding; these are discussed briefly under the section
   captioned DISCHARGE. The bankruptcy judge might deny the discharge
   altogether under certain circumstances. For instance, if the debtor
   received a discharge in a previous Chapter 7 case filed within the past
   six (6) years.

   As a general proposition, Chapter 7 bankruptcy is for those with little
   or no income or property and more debt than they can repay.


   How Chapter 7 Works

   A Chapter 7 case begins with the filings of a petition, schedules of
   assets and liabilities, and a statement of financial affairs. These
   documents are standard forms and designed to give the judge and others
   a pretty complete picture of the debtor's financial standing.
   Ordinarily, the petition and support documents must be filed at the
   location (in the federal judicial district) where the debtor lives or
   has its main business office. The standard forms can be purchased from
   most legal stationary stores or office supply stores - forms are NOT
   available from the court. A husband and wife may file one petition - a
   "joint" petition - and this is the only time that more than one legal
   entity can join in a single bankruptcy case. The filing fee (to cover
   the basic court costs) is $175.00 at this time. Unless court permission
   is obtained, the filings fee must be paid in full at the time of filing
   the bankruptcy case. If a husband and wife file a joint petition, only
   one filing fee is required.

   Immediately after a Chapter 7 case is filed, an impartial person is
   appointed as the case Trustee. The Trustee's job is to liquidate all of
   the "non-exempt" assets and, generally, to administer the case.

   In order to fill out all of the official forms, the debtor will need to
   gather the following information:

     --- a list of all of his/her creditors (names, addresses,...)

     --- a list of all property owned or possessed

     --- a list of all sources of income and expenses (food, rent,
     clothing, utilities, transportation etc...)

   One of the forms that must be completed is a schedule of "exempt"
   property. Federal bankruptcy law establishes a right to exempt some
   property from liquidation in bankruptcy. In West Virginia, you can find
   the kinds and amounts of exemptions in the West Virginia Code.
   Therefore, a debtor might be able to "exempt" equity in the house, car,
   some furniture, tools, ...

   The moment that a bankruptcy case is filed, all creditors are
   prohibited by law from any further contact (written or oral) with the
   debtor; an "automatic stay" or injunction comes into effect as a matter
   of law. So, all law suits are stopped, garnishments must cease, and so
   forth. Any creditor contact with the debtor can only be resumed after
   permission is granted by the court.

   Very, very soon after the bankruptcy case is filed, all of the
   creditors will be notified of the filing and they will also be told the
   time, place and date of a meeting of creditors. This meeting is
   designed to allow all of the creditors an opportunity to confront the
   debtor and ask questions about the debtor's finances, while the debtor
   is under oath. If a joint petition is filed, both the husband and wife
   must attend the creditors meeting. It is very important for the debtor
   to cooperate with the Trustee throughout the life of the bankruptcy
   case. No bankruptcy judge is permitted to attend the creditors meeting.

   If the Trustee finds that there are certain assets which are not
   "exempt", the Trustee will sell those assets and use the money to pay
   creditors. If, as is very often the case, there are no "non-exempt" or
   unencumbered assets there will be no money to distribute to creditors.


   Discharge

   About three (3) months after the creditors meeting, the debtor will
   receive a "discharge". This "discharge" extinguishes the debtor's
   obligation to pay many debts which have not been paid by the Trustee.
   Generally, only "unsecured" debts are "discharged" in bankruptcy. These
   are very important concepts and they should be understood thoroughly
   before a bankruptcy case is filed.

   Because secured creditors retain rights even after the discharge which
   may permit them to seize the collateral which the debtor(s) pledged
   (car, house, boat, ...), the debtor may want to think about
   "reaffirming" some secured debts. A "reaffirmation agreement" is a
   contract between the debtor and a creditor, made while the bankruptcy
   case is open, in which the debtor agrees to pay back the money even
   though bankruptcy was filed. See, 11 U.S.C. '524(c) In return, the
   creditor promises that the collateral will not be seized/repossessed as
   long as the payments are being made as agreed. This agreement must be
   filed with the court and, if the debtor is not represented by a lawyer,
   the agreement must be approved by the bankruptcy judge after a hearing.
   The reaffirmation agreement must be filed before the discharge is
   granted. PART IV includes a sample Reaffirmation Agreement.

   GENERALLY, all unsecured debts can be discharged in bankruptcy except:
   alimony & support, certain taxes, debts incurred by fraud, larceny,
   embezzlement..., obligations arising from driving while intoxicated,
   wilful and malicious injuries, certain educational loans, and perhaps
   others.

   Again a cautionary note: Bankruptcy law is often very complex -
   sometimes even complicated for lawyers who do not regularly practice
   bankruptcy law. If there is any possible way to do so, it is important
   that a person seeking bankruptcy protection engage the services of a
   lawyer. Fraud committed during a bankruptcy proceeding can be the basis
   for a felony charge and could lead to severe criminal penalties.


   CHAPTER 13 DEBT ADJUSTMENT

   This section contains general information about Chapter 13 of the
   United States Bankruptcy Code. While the information presented is
   accurate as of the date of publication, it should not be cited or
   relied upon as legal authority. Again, this material should not be used
   as a substitute for reference to the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 United
   States Code) and the Official Bankruptcy Rules, both of which may be
   reviewed at local law libraries, and any local rules or practices
   adopted and disseminated by each bankruptcy court. Finally, this fact
   sheet should supplement, not substitute for, advice of competent legal
   counsel.

   Background

   Chapter 13
   is designed for individuals with regular income who desire to pay their
   debts but are currently unable to do so. The primary benefit of Chapter
   13 relief is the ability to repay creditors, in full or in part, in
   installments over a three to five year period, during which time
   creditors are prohibited from starting or continuing collection
   efforts.

   Any individual, even if self-employed or operating an unincorporated
   business, is eligible for Chapter 13 relief as long as the individual's
   unsecured debts are less than $250,000 and secured debts are less than
   $750,000. A corporation may not be a Chapter 13 debtor.

   An individual cannot file under Chapter 13 if during the preceding 180
   days, a prior bankruptcy petition was dismissed due to the debtor's
   failure to appear or comply with orders of the court, or was
   voluntarily dismissed after creditors sought permission from the
   bankruptcy court to recover property upon which they hold liens.


   How Chapter 13 Works

   A Chapter 13 case begins with the filing of a petition, schedules of
   assets and liabilities, and a statement of financial affairs, with the
   bankruptcy court serving the area where the debtor lives. (Official
   Bankruptcy Forms can be purchased at many stationery stores; they are
   not available from the court). A husband and wife may file one joint
   petition.

   In order to complete the Official Bankruptcy Forms which make up the
   petition

   and schedules, the debtor will need to compile the following
   information:

     -A list of all creditors;

     -The source, amount, frequency and reliability of the debtor's
     income;

   -A list of all of the debtor's property; and

     -A detailed list of the debtor's monthly living expenses, i.e.,
     food, clothing, shelter, utilities, taxes, transportation, medicine,
     etc.

   When a husband and wife have filed a single, joint petition they should
   be sure to gather the above detailed data for both spouses. In order to
   accurately assess financial responsibilities, however, even when only
   one spouse files, the income and expenses of the non-filing spouse
   should be included.

   The required filing fee for a Chapter 13 case is set forth in PART V.
   This fee may be paid in full upon filing or may, with the court's
   permission be paid in up to four installments. If a joint petition is
   filed, only one filing fee is charged. Upon the filing of the petition
   an impartial trustee is appointed by the court or the United States
   trustee to administer the case.

   Upon filing of the petition most actions by creditors to collect money
   owed to them must end. Creditors, by law, generally cannot initiate or
   continue any law suits, wage garnishment, or even telephone calls
   demanding payment. Creditors will receive notice of the filing of the
   petition from the court.

   The debtor must file a plan of repayment with the petition or within
   fifteen days after the case is filed . A sample format for a Chapter 13
   Plan, and the format which this court endorses, is contained in PART
   IV. Plans, which must be approved by the court, provide for payments of
   fixed amounts to the trustee on a regular basis, typically bi-weekly or
   monthly. The trustee then distributes the funds to creditors according
   to the terms of the plan, which may offer creditors less than full
   payment on their claims. If creditors are offered only partial
   satisfaction, the debtor is obligated to commit to the proposed plan
   all projected disposable income over the three to five years the plan
   is in effect. Disposable income is defined as income not reasonably
   necessary for the maintenance or support of the debtor or dependents.
   If the debtor operates a business, disposable income is defined as
   those amounts not necessary for the payment of ordinary operating
   expenses.

   Within thirty days after the filing of the plan, and even though the
   plan has not yet been approved by the court, the debtor must start
   making payments to the trustee.

   Approximately 20 to 40 days after the petition is filed, a "meeting of
   creditors" is held. The debtor must attend this meeting, at which
   creditors may appear and ask questions regarding the debtor=s financial
   affairs and the proposed terms of the plan. Note that if a husband and
   wife have filed one joint petition, they both must attend the creditors
   meeting. The trustee also will attend this meeting and question the
   debtor on the same matters. In order to preserve their independent
   judgment, bankruptcy judges are prohibited from attending. If there are
   problems with the plan, they are typically resolved during or shortly
   after the creditors' meetings. Generally, problems may be avoided if
   the petition and plan are complete and accurate and the trustee has
   been consulted prior to the meeting.

   After the meeting of creditors is concluded, the presiding bankruptcy
   judge must determine at a "confirmation hearing" whether the plan is
   feasible and meets the standards of the Bankruptcy Code. Creditors may
   appear at the hearing and object to confirmation. While a variety of
   objections may be made, typically they include that: payments offered
   under the plan are less than creditors would receive if the debtor=s
   assets were liquidated, or the debtor's plan does not commit all extra
   income for the tree to five year period of the plan.

   If the plan is confirmed by the bankruptcy judge, the trustee commences
   distribution of the funds he has received from the debtor. If the plan
   is not confirmed the funds paid to the trustee are returned to the
   debtor after deducting the trustee=s costs, as authorized by the court.

   On occasion changed circumstances will affect a debtor=s ability to
   make payments, or a debtor may inadvertently have failed to list all
   creditors. In such instances, the plans may be modified either before
   or after confirmation.


   The Chapter 13 Plan

   Michael Clagett, Esq.

   If you remember that the majority of persons who will read your Chapter
   13 Plan are not bankruptcy attorneys you will solve the majority of
   problems voiced by creditors. In telephone conversations with
   creditors, we discover that the most commonly asked questions simply
   pertain to what the plan is trying to say. Once explained, the creditor
   is normally satisfied - except for the amount of money that will be
   received. The requirements of a Chapter 13 Plan are contained in 11
   U.S.C. §1322. Although that Section contains the requirements of the
   plan, it is important to remember that even though your plan meets the
   requirements of 11 U.S.C. §1322, it is not very helpful if the plan is
   not understandable.

   It seems logical to start the Chapter 13 Plan by explaining the monthly
   payment which will be paid to the Trustee. Payment may be made monthly
   or, if by payroll deduction by weekly, bi-weekly, or semi-monthly
   payments. Sometimes it is important to set forth the total amount of
   money which would be paid to the Chapter 13 Trustee over the life of
   the plan.

   It would seem that the Chapter 13 Plan should provide the boilerplate
   language set forth in 11 U.S.C. §1322 (a)(1) which states that the plan
   shall provide for the submission of all or such portion of future
   earnings or other future income of the Debtor to the supervision and
   control of the Trustee as is necessary for the execution of the plan.
   At the beginning it is important to provide for the Trustee's
   Commission and Expenses and your fee which remains unpaid. This serves
   as immediate notice to creditors that there will be administrative
   costs involved in this plan. Currently, all Chapter 13 Plans in this
   district state that the trustee's commission and expenses shall be
   those expenses as fixed by the Attorney General of the United States
   pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §586.

   Priority claims should be set out to be paid under the plan. Remember
   that 11 U.S.C. §1322 (a)(2) requires that priority claims be paid in
   full. Delinquent alimony and child support are now entitled to
   priority. Priority claims are not required to receive any additional
   interest. Also remember that tax penalties are not entitled to
   priority, but only the taxes and interest incurred up to the date of
   filing are entitled to priority.

   What about the secured creditors? Generally speaking, there are at
   least three separate treatments of secured creditors that should be
   addressed in your plan. First of all, the plan should focus upon those
   creditors which will have the collateral returned. Secondly, the plan
   should provide for those secured creditors which will receive their
   payments directly from the Debtor outside of the plan. There may be an
   additional subheading for those "outside" payments which show those
   creditors which are receiving the regular monthly payment - such as on
   a home mortgage loan - and those creditors which will receive a regular
   monthly payment with cram down provisions being applied. The third
   secured category might include those creditors being paid "inside" the
   plan. From reading your plan, the creditor should know whether it is
   being paid in full, being crammed down, or merely having its arrearages
   paid. This is very simple to do by setting forth in your plan (1) the
   name of the creditor, (2) the type of collateral, (3) the amount of
   money that is owed to the creditor, (4) the value of the collateral,
   (5) the amount to be paid to the creditor as a secured creditor, and
   (6) the monthly payment and whether that monthly payment includes
   interest. When the amount owed is set forth, it would be good to note
   whether or not that amount is your estimation of the payoff, the payoff
   plus interest, or reflects the arrearages which are to be paid by the
   Trustee. If your plan describes this information to the creditor in
   question and to the other creditors who may be reviewing your plan, you
   may expect fewer phone calls to your office seeking an explanation of
   the plan. Like so many things in bankruptcy, if you do the tough
   detailed work at the very beginning, it will pay great dividends in the
   future when you receive very few intrusive calls from the creditors
   (and your client).

   Next, consideration must be given to the unsecured creditors. It is
   important to remember that the law provides for separate
   classifications of unsecured debts, if you can justify those
   classifications. It is permissible to set up one class of creditors
   consisting of cosigner debts - which debts are to be paid in full -
   while providing a separate class containing other creditors which shall
   receive less than full payment. In fact, one of the reasons Debtors
   file Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases is to take advantage of the co-Debtor
   stay provided by 11 U.S.C. §1301. It is proper in this district,
   although not necessarily permissible throughout the country, to provide
   a separate classification for non-dischargeable debts such as student
   loans. In fact, a rather surprising number of Chapter 13 bankruptcy
   cases are filed so that a Debtor may pay the student loan in full
   without interest while paying other unsecured creditors less than one
   hundred cents on the dollar. One should always keep track of current
   law in the Fourth Circuit when setting up plans that provide different
   treatment to the unsecured creditors.

   When providing for general unsecured creditors in your plan, remember
   to set forth the percentage that will go to those unsecured creditors.
   Do not forget to place in your list of creditors the balance due and
   owing creditors that have been crammed down. In other words, if there
   is a secured creditor who is owed $1,000.00, and the plan proposal is
   to pay $200.00 as secured, the balance of $800.00 should be provided
   for in the general unsecured claims classification.

   Your plan should also set forth whether any executory contracts exist
   which should be accepted or rejected. It is also good practice to set
   forth the liens which are to be avoided.

   Finally, your plan should disclose the length of time it is to be in
   effect. Occasionally, it is important to set forth the amount of money
   that is to be paid to the Trustee such as when a client has a business
   or job that does not pay the same amount of money each month. In
   addition, if your client were to sell an asset, proceeds received from
   the sale of that asset could be distributed in order to shorten the
   original length of the plan.

   This is a very basic overview of the construction of a Chapter 13 Plan.
   It should be remembered that 11 U.S.C.  §1322(b)(10) provides that any
   appropriate provision not inconsistent with Title 11 of the United
   States Code may be placed in the plan. Often the plan provides for sale
   of real estate, or contingent features. Plans often provide for certain
   debts to be paid by co-signers. If it is anticipated that unusual
   events may happen in your bankruptcy case, that event should to be set
   out in some section of the Plan so that creditors, as well as the
   Trustee and the Court, will understand what you are trying to
   accomplish by the Chapter 13 Plan.

   PART IV
   includes a sample Chapter 13 Plan which is approved and encouraged in
   both Northern and Southern West Virginia.

   Making the Plan Work

   Once the court confirms the plan, it is incumbent upon the debtor to
   make the plan succeed. The debtor must make regular payments to the
   trustee, which will require adjustment to living on a fixed budget for
   a prolonged period. Further, while confirmation of the plan entitles
   the debtor to retain property as long as payments are made, the debtor
   should not incur any significant credit obligations without consulting
   the trustee, since this may impact upon the execution of the plan.

   A debtor may consent to the deduction of the plan payments from the
   debtor=s paycheck. Experience has shown that this practice may increase
   the likelihood that payments will be made on time and plans fully
   completed. In any event, failure to make the payments may result in
   dismissal of the case or its conversion to a liquidation proceeding
   under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.

   The Chapter 13 Discharge

   Upon successful completion of a Chapter 13 plan, the debtor will
   receive a "discharge" which extinguishes the debtor's obligations to
   pay any unsecured debts that were included in the plan, but were not
   paid in full through the plan. Unsecured debts generally may be defined
   as obligations based purely on future ability to pay as opposed to
   secured debts which are based upon the creditor's right to seize
   pledged property upon default, in addition to ability to pay. Those
   creditors who were provided for in full or in part under the plan, may
   no longer initiate or continue with any legal or other action against
   the debtor to collect the obligations.

   The bankruptcy law regarding the scope of a Chapter 13 discharge is
   complex, and debtors should consult competent legal counsel in this
   regard prior to filing. As a general rule, however, all debts are
   discharged except alimony and support obligations, certain taxes and
   secured obligations. These debts must therefore be paid in full under a
   plan. Regarding secured obligations, however, the primary benefit of
   Chapter 13 relief is the ability to pay over the term of the plan
   arrearages and attorney's fees, costs and interest based upon the
   default. (Current note or mortgage payments must be paid according to
   the original contract.) All other debts, including some which may not
   be dischargeable in Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings obligations
   incurred by fraud, embezzlement, larceny, willful and malicious injury
   and certain educational loans) are dischargeable under Chapter 13. In
   effect, in return for the willingness of the debt to undergo the
   discipline of a three to five year repayment plan, a broader discharge
   is provided than is available in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy.


   The Chapter 13 Hardship Discharge

   After confirmation of a plan, there are circumstances under which the
   debtor may request the court to grant a "hardship discharge" when the
   debtor has failed to complete plan payments. Generally, such a
   discharge is only available to a debtor whose failure to complete the
   plan payments is due to circumstances beyond the debtor=s control and
   through no fault of the debtor, after creditors have already received
   at least as much as they would have received in a Chapter 7 liquidation
   proceeding; and when modification of the plan is not possible. Injury
   or illness that precludes employment sufficient to fund even a modified
   plan may serve as the basis for a hardship discharge.


   CHAPTER 11 REORGANIZATION

   Chapter 11
   of the Bankruptcy Code is the chapter which receives all of the press.
   It is under this chapter that we have seen and read about American
   Airlines, Macy's, A.H. Robbins, and other giant companies seeking
   financial protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. If you are
   reading this Elementary Guide, you probably do not have much need for a
   very detailed explanation of the Chapter 11 provisions of the Code. The
   statutory provisions governing Chapter 11 are found in 11 U.S.C.
   §§1101-1146.

   Immediately upon the filing of the Chapter 11 case the court will enter
   a five or six page operating order which sets forth the new duties and
   responsibilities of the entity filing for bankruptcy protection. See,
   PART IV for an example of this form.

   Chapter 11
   differs principally from the other major chapters of the code in the
   respect that no trustee is automatically appointed to oversee the
   financial affairs of the debtor. Under Chapter 11 the entity, called
   "Debtor-in-Possession" (DIP), continues to operate the business and
   possesses many of the powers of the case trustee under other chapters
   of the Code. The aim of Chapter 11 is to allow the ailing company
   (although not to the exclusion of the ailing individual) to reorganize
   itself under court protection. On occasion, however, the court will
   grant a motion to appoint a trustee or examiner to assist in
   restructuring the financial affairs of a troubled business. The thought
   is that new guidance or management, or a fresh idea or business
   approach, might result in turning the company around.

   Another significant difference in this Chapter and the other
   "reorganization chapters" (Chapter 12 or Chapter 13) is that a
   disclosure statement and rather sophisticated plan of reorganization
   must be filed. The DIP has the exclusive right to file the Plan any
   time within 90 days of the date of filing and after that period, a
   creditor may file the plan.

   The function of the disclosure statement is to summarize the nature of
   the reorganizing business and to serve as a basis for the good faith
   solicitation of acceptance of the plan of reorganization. See, 11
   U.S.C. §1125. The disclosure statement must be filed and served upon
   anyone who has requested a copy of the document. If, at the hearing,
   the court approves of the disclosure statement, a time for accepting or
   rejecting the Plan and the date of the confirmation hearing are set by
   the court. In this district, if the court approves of the disclosure
   statement, counsel for the DIP is required to send a copy of the order
   of approval (with the date time and place of the plan hearing
   included), together with the approved disclosure statement, Plan and a
   ballot for voting upon the Plan, to each interested party. The
   requirements of a proper Plan are set forth in 11 U.S.C. §1123.

   If the disclosure statement has been approved and the plan has been
   confirmed, the DIP begins operating its business affairs under the
   terms and conditions set forth in the confirmed Plan - the Plan is
   essentially no more than a new contract between the DIP and its
   creditors. Generally, the court will have little involvement in a case
   after the Plan has been confirmed. However, it is not uncommon for the
   DIP or a creditor to return to the court, post-confirmation, asking for
   permission to use certain of its collateral, or to obtain new credit or
   for direction on performing under executory contracts or existing
   leases.

   As a case management tool, after about six (6) months of operating
   under the plan, and assuming little or no court-related activity, the
   court will ordinarily enter an order which requires the DIP to file a
   report stating whether or not the Plan has been "substantially
   consummated". If all is going well with the DIP and Plan payments are
   being made as proposed, the DIP will file a report saying that the Plan
   has been substantially consummated and the court will enter an order
   closing the case.

   The filing fee for a Chapter 11 case and the statutory quarterly fees
   which must be paid to the Office of the U.S. Trustees is set forth in
   PART V of this manual. Examples of common pleadings and orders in a
   Chapter 11 case are set forth in PART IV of this Guide.


   CHAPTER 12 - THE FAMILY FARMER BANKRUPTCY

   As in many years in the past decade or so, 1986 was a year of vast
   changes in the American law of bankruptcy. Among other things, the U.S.
   Trustee system was added to the Department of Justice. Another huge
   development in 1986 was the enactment of Chapter 12 of the Bankruptcy
   Code. Chapter 12 came about in order to address many very serious
   financial problems confronting those engaged in small farming
   operations throughout the country. Procedurally, Chapter 12 is
   something of a hybrid of both Chapter 11 and Chapter 13; the principal
   procedural differences have to do with the expedited nature of matters
   relating to filing and confirming of the plan of reorganization. As in
   Chapter 13, a trustee is appointed in a Chapter 12 case. As under
   Chapter 11, however, the farmer-debtor remains in possession of his
   property and continues to operate the farming operation. The principal
   job of the trustee in the Chapter 12 case (like in Chapter 13) is to
   make recommendations regarding whether the court should confirm the
   plan, in addition to receiving and distributing the plan payments to
   the creditors.

   As with Chapter 13, the Chapter 12 debtor must have a "regular income",
   although there may be times when a farmer with a seasonal income may be
   permitted to file. In addition to a "regular income", in order to
   qualify as a family farmer under Chapter 12, the farmer must:

   1. Be engaged in a farming operation; and,

   2. Have total debts which do not exceed $1.5 million; and,

   3. 80% or more of this total debt must be related to

   the farming operation itself; and,

   4. At least 50% of the farmer's gross income in the

   preceding tax year must have come from the

   farming operation.

   See
   , 11 U.S.C. §§101(18) & 109(f). Please be cautious with the figures and
   percentages noted above because these are the kinds of things which
   change from time to time.

   Each quarter, the debtor must file an operating report summarizing
   receipts and disbursements.

   Once the debtor has completed all of the plan payments, the court will
   grant a discharge to the farmer.


   THE CHAPTER 9 CASE - ADJUSTING DEBTS OF A MUNICIPALITY

   In West Virginia, indeed throughout America, Chapter 9 of the
   Bankruptcy Code is a seldom used tool. As a consequence, this Guide
   will only introduce the basic concepts of the Chapter 9 case. This
   chapter is designed to permit "reorganization" of the municipal entity.
   No other chapter of the Code so restricts the bankruptcy court's power
   or authority. The judge must always be sensitive to sovereign nature of
   a municipality which is a "political subdivision or public agency or
   instrumentality of a State." See, definitions, 11 U.S.C. §101(40). In
   the sense that the municipality must file a disclosure statement and
   plan of reorganization, and that the plan must be voted upon by
   creditors, and that a confirmation hearing must be held, the Chapter 9
   case is very much like the Chapter 11 procedure.

   A very unique feature of Chapter 9 is that the creditors may file an
   objection to the filing itself. Also unique is a statutory notice
   requirement. Under §923, certain notice must not only be given to
   creditors, but specified notice must be given by publication. In
   practice, it is the debtor, not the office of the clerk, which actually
   gives the required notices.

   Another novel requirement of this chapter is that the bankruptcy judge
   must be designated to preside by the chief judge of the court of
   appeals in the district where the case is filed.

   The code and official rules also address such subjects as when a
   trustee can be appointed, intervention by the Secretary of Treasury,
   and certain proof of claims requirements.

   As mentioned, many of the other provisions governing Chapter 9 cases
   track Chapter 11 procedure.


                                   PART II



   THE PLAYERS

   Often times, a bankruptcy case will proceed from filing to closing
   without the debtor or his counsel ever appearing in court or even
   seeing the judge of the bankruptcy court. Likewise, it is very common
   to have no direct contact with the bankruptcy clerk's office during the
   life of any given case. However, keep in mind that the office of the
   clerk of the bankruptcy court can provide you with some very valuable
   procedural advice. The clerk's office in either of West Virginia's
   federal districts is happy to give you guidance as long as the inquiry
   does not stray into substantive bankruptcy law or questions regarding
   how the judge might rule.

   On the other hand, in every case you will have some contact with the
   trustee who has been assigned to your case. Also, you may have direct
   contact with the Office of the Assistant United States Trustee (U.S.
   Trustee) at least once in every case. At some point early in the life
   of your bankruptcy case, you and your client(s) will appear, in person,
   at a meeting of creditors - called "The First Meeting of Creditors" or
   "The '341 Meeting" (from '341 of the Bankruptcy Code). The presiding
   officer at this meeting is the Assistant U.S. Trustee or his designee
   (the panel or interim or case trustee), and whomever presides will be
   the principal interrogator at this creditor meeting.

   A case trustee is appointed in every Chapter 7, 12, and 13 case. The
   case trustee is assigned to each case by the Assistant U.S. Trustee.
   The principal function of the trustee is to manage the estate which has
   been created by the filing of the bankruptcy petition. See, 11 U.S.C.
   §323 & §704, for duties of the trustee. Ordinarily, this management
   function takes the form of liquidating the estate assets. In both the
   Northern and Southern districts of West Virginia there exists a panel
   made up of several Chapter 7 panel trustees and one or more "standing"
   Chapter 12 and Chapter 13 trustees. As you will see later, "liquidating
   the estate" generally means selling off everything which is
   unencumbered that the debtor owned before the bankruptcy filing.

   In 1986, a new layer of bureaucracy was added to the United States
   Bankruptcy system in the form of the Office of the United States
   Trustee. This organization is a part of the Department of Justice and
   its principal aim is to insure the integrity of an often and long
   abused bankruptcy system. The duties of the U.S. Trustee are set forth
   in 28 U.S.C. §586. These duties include maintaining and supervising the
   panel of trustees. As a practitioner, your most common contact with the
   office of the U.S. Trustee should be with regard to the conduct of the
   first meeting of creditors. In West Virginia, the Office of the U.S.
   Trustee is headed by the Assistant U.S. Trustee for the State of West
   Virginia; her offices are located in Charleston, West Virginia. This
   individual reports to the U.S. Trustee for Region 4 who is
   headquartered in Columbia, South Carolina.

   You are, no doubt, familiar with the other players in a bankruptcy
   context - the debtor(s) and the creditors. Most commonly, the debtor(s)
   is a consumer, or husband and wife consumers. A "joint case" can only
   be commenced by a husband and wife. See, 11 U.S.C. §302. See also, 11
   U.S.C. §109, captioned Who may be a debtor.


   FRESH START

   Without going into great depth or philosophical detail, it is important
   to at least be aware that the current stated congressional intent in
   promulgating a comprehensive bankruptcy law is to provide those in
   financial trouble with a "fresh start". This underlying policy is
   important in many contexts. Pre-bankruptcy planning is recognized and,
   indeed, a crucial consideration when you provide legal counsel to your
   clients. Proper planning does not include allowing your client to run
   all of his credit cards to the limit before filing. Nor does planning
   mean that the debtor can obtain loans in the face of an imminent
   filing. The failure to file your bankruptcy case in "good faith" can
   lead to a number of critical sanctions including dismissal of the case.


   TOOLS NEEDED TO PRACTICE BANKRUPTCY

   As with any area of the law, there are several essential resources
   which you should possess in order to be an effective, competent
   bankruptcy practitioner. Unlike some areas of the law (e.g., property),
   bankruptcy law has proven to be very dynamic. This fact underscores the
   necessity of keeping in touch with the constant developments in
   bankruptcy law.

   Of the several legal publications which you must purchase, the most
   essential is a copy of the Bankruptcy Code and Official Bankruptcy
   Rules. There are several excellent, one and two-volume soft bound
   publications which will satisfy this legal need. A couple of examples
   are: a Lawyers Co-op / Bancroft-Whitney publication, and a two volume
   set published by Callaghan & Company.

   Another critical library item is a copy of the local rules of practice
   which have been developed in both the Southern and Northern Districts
   of West Virginia. These rules are FREE. They can be obtained by simply
   calling or writing the Bankruptcy Clerk's Office in Charleston (for
   Southern West Virginia) or Wheeling (for the Northern District). The
   local rules are designed to fill in gaps left by the Code and the
   Official Rules and are intended to provide you with procedural
   guidance.

   The final vital tool for your bankruptcy library is a copy of West
   Virginia's exemption schedules which are found in §38-8-1 et seq. W.
   Va. Code Ann.

   Now that you have about twenty bucks invested in your lucrative
   commercial law future, you should want to keep spending. It would be
   very helpful if you could obtain one specialty work like Collier on
   Bankruptcy or Bankruptcy Service Lawyer's Edition, and, ultimately, a
   set of the Bankruptcy Reporter (expensive).

   With the above references, you will quickly rise to among the top 10%
   of West Virginia's bankruptcy bar.


   CONTESTED MATTERS & ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGS

   Procedurally, there is nothing in the law quite like bankruptcy. In
   addition to the Bankruptcy Code and perhaps 206 official bankruptcy
   rules (which have been divided into ten parts) and local rules of the
   district and bankruptcy court, you may also find yourself litigating
   ordinary lawsuits within the bankruptcy case itself.

   The two basic ways that disputes are resolved in bankruptcy are through
   either contested matters or adversary proceedings (A/P's). Generally,
   contested matters are those disputes which arise as a consequence of
   the filing of motions, applications, or requests within the bankruptcy
   case itself. Some examples of contested matters might be a motion for
   relief from the automatic stay, a motion to avoid a lien, a motion to
   value security, or an application for attorney fees. There is nothing
   magic about contested matters; they are just like the smaller disputes
   which surface in all of your law suits. Thus, in your state court
   personal injury actions, you may need to argue a host of motions before
   your case is in a posture to go to trial. It is exactly the same in
   bankruptcy, except the pretrial issues are called "contested matters".
   See, Bankruptcy Rule 9014.

   On the other hand, you may also have major disputes which surface
   during the course of, or as a consequence of, the bankruptcy case. For
   instance, you may need to litigate the validity of a lien, or the issue
   of whether a discharge should be granted at all to a particular debtor
   (e.g., fraud involved), or whether a particular debt is dischargeable
   (like alimony or support). Bankruptcy Rule 7001 sets forth the nature
   of disputes which require the filing of a civil action or "adversary
   proceeding."

   Adversary proceedings are simply civil actions. They are commenced by
   the filing of a complaint. The issues are joined when the answer is
   filed and the case then proceeds just like any other law suit -
   discovery, pretrial motions, pretrial conference, trial. Essentially,
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure apply just as they do in any suit
   brought under federal law. See, Part VII of the Official Bankruptcy
   Rules. From a practical standpoint, the major difference in an A/P and
   any other suit is in the style of the case. For a more thorough
   discussion of these matters see

   PART III
   . The A/P is styled so the bankruptcy case itself is reflected in the
   style as follows:

     IN RE:

     JOHN SMITH,

     Debtor.

     BK NO.: 90-100247

     ABC CREDIT AGENCY,

     Plaintiff,

     VS. A/P NO.: 90-1036

     JOHN SMITH,

     Defendant.


   THE PETITION, SCHEDULES & SIGNATURES

   In the "typical case", the single event which will require most of your
   time, knowledge, and energy (other than the client interview) will be
   preparation of the petition and schedules. Petition and schedule "sets"
   can be purchased from a number of sources - the court does not provide
   these forms. Likewise, a number of commercial vendors have computer
   software available for this purpose and even some of our most casual
   practitioners have stated that purchase of the computer programs has
   been very cost-effective.

   The bankruptcy petition itself is essentially only one or two pages
   long. It, like any petition in equity, sets forth the nature of the
   relief sought and is signed by the debtor(s) and counsel.

   The schedules are made up of several distinct sections beginning with
   questions regarding personal and financial data involving the debtor -
   the "Statement of Financial Affairs". Next, you will find the schedules
   captioned A thru J which disclose the specific nature of the debtor's
   assets and liabilities and what the debtor is attempting to accomplish
   by the bankruptcy filing. Following is a summary of what each of the
   schedules includes:

   Schedule A Ownership of Real Property

   Schedule B Ownership of Personal Property

   Schedule C Property which the Debtor wishes to exempt from
   administration

   Schedule D All creditors who have secured claims against the debtor

   Schedule E All creditors who have unsecured priority claims (like
   taxes)

   Schedule F All creditors who have general unsecured (nonpriority)
   claims

   Schedule G A list of all executory contracts and unexpired leases

   Schedule H A list of codebtors on any obligation

   Schedule I A summary of the income of the debtor

   Schedule J A summary of the expenses of the debtor

   Following the schedules is a summary of the schedules (a brief
   recapitulation of the total amount of money reflected in each
   schedule), signatures made under penalty of perjury, and the attorney's
   fee disclosure statement. Lastly, the debtor is required to submit a
   signed statement which shows his future intentions with regard to
   certain property - whether the debt will be reaffirmed, surrendered to
   the creditor, redeemed, etc...

   Ordinarily, if you take care in the preparation of the petition and
   support documents you will be saving yourself, your client, and the
   court a lot of future time, work, and heartache. And, with a thorough
   initial client interview, the schedules should be easy to complete.
   Keep in mind that poorly prepared schedules or an incomplete filing
   will lead you to amendment practice, entry of compliance orders, "show
   cause" hearings, extra client interviews, phone calls from creditors,
   and perhaps, sanctions - not to mention your client's wrath. TAKE A FEW
   MINUTES TO DO IT CORRECTLY THE FIRST TIME !!!

   The petition and all support documents require the original signatures
   of the debtor(s). Failure to insure that the debtors have signed all of
   their papers can result in the petition being rejected when tendered
   for filing. Not only can this be embarrassing but it could result in
   that foreclosure going forward as scheduled.

   Your first few bankruptcy cases may take forever to prepare and file
   but, once you become familiar with the requirements you will begin
   making money.


   THE MAILING MATRIX

   If you ever get sick of a term or concept while you are practicing
   bankruptcy, it will be the word "matrix". THE most important paper you
   will file for your client will be the mailing matrix. Indeed, there is
   even a specific format and type-set which you must use when preparing
   this document. The mailing matrix is a list of the names and addresses
   of each of the creditors and other parties who have an interest in the
   bankruptcy case.

   By its very nature, bankruptcy is a law largely designed to permit
   manipulation of someone else's property. Obviously, you cannot seize or
   sell someone's property without providing them with what the
   constitution calls "due process". If an individual takes another's
   property it is called theft. If the state summarily takes property,
   there are constitutional ramifications. Thus, before any property is
   disposed of in bankruptcy, everyone [with an interest] is entitled to
   know about it and entitled to be heard. Therefore, each time an
   interested party (the debtor, a creditor, the trustee, ...) proposes to
   dispose of any property of the bankruptcy estate, a notice of some type
   will issue to everyone concerned. The notice will apprise everyone of
   the identity of the property being disposed of and also give everyone
   the right to object to the proposed disposition of the property
   involved.

   The bottom line is that if a creditor is omitted from the mailing
   matrix, or if an address is incomplete or incorrect, that creditor
   might later attack events which occurred during the life of the
   bankruptcy (or may not be bound by the bankruptcy proceedings
   themselves). It is essential that the matrix be drafted carefully and
   accurately.



   EXEMPTIONS

   Under state and federal law, a debtor is allowed to keep, or "exempt"
   certain property from the ravages of sale or levy. The exemptions which
   are permitted by law, go a long way toward enabling the debtor to
   receive the "fresh start" which was discussed earlier.

   In West Virginia, the bankruptcy court uses the exemption schedule
   which has been created under West Virginia law. The exemptions
   permitted in West Virginia are set forth in §38-8-4 W.Va. Code. See, 11
   U.S.C. §522. The exemption schedules are contained in Schedule C of the
   bankruptcy forms package which you will utilize.


   VOLUNTARY vs. INVOLUNTARY


   This topic could get very technical and equally boring. It is enough to
   alert you to the fact that although the vast, vast majority of cases
   are commenced through the voluntary act of the debtors, it is possible
   for one or more creditors to force an individual or entity into
   bankruptcy. The standards for filing an involuntary petition are set
   forth in 11 U.S.C. §303. See also, Bankruptcy Rule 1003. Of course,
   after an involuntary case has been filed, a summons issues and the
   involuntary debtor is given an opportunity to answer and contest the
   issues and allegations raised. If the allegations of insolvency as
   contained in the creditor's petition are admitted by the debtor, the
   case proceeds in the ordinary fashion.


   AMENDMENTS


   As a general rule, the bankruptcy petition and any support document can
   be amended at any time before the case is closed. Bankruptcy Rule 1009.
   Ordinarily, it is the debtor's duty to provide the affected parties
   with notice of the amendment. In addition, often times a fee must
   accompany the amendment when, as for example, the amendment is filed
   after the first meeting of creditors has been conducted and the
   amendment affects the mailing matrix. Also, you should keep in mind
   that some types of amendments will cause certain dates and deadlines to
   be extended at least for some parties. The official rules and local
   rules provide guidance with regard to amendment practice. E.g.,
   Official Bankruptcy Rule 1009.

   Procedurally, all that is required in order to amend the petition or
   any of the schedules is the amendment itself (signed by the debtor or
   debtors), the amendment fee if required (see, PART V for list of fees),
   and a notice or certificate of service which shows that the amendment
   was served upon any and all parties affected by the amendment.


   FEES

   As you may have guessed, there are lots of different fees associated
   with a bankruptcy case. There are filing fees, search fees, copy fees,
   amendment fees, noticing fees, certification fees, appeal fees, ... .
   The type and amount of these fees are reflected in the list of fees as
   contained  elsewhere on this site.


   CASE ADMINISTRATION - AN OVERVIEW

   HOW A CASE PROCEEDS

   Again, many of the concepts contained in this section will be taken up
   in greater detail in PART III.

   A "typical case" is probably in a posture to actually close about 90 to
   120 days after the date of filing. After you have filed your completed
   petition and schedules and once the U.S. Trustee appoints a panel
   trustee, the next event you can expect is receipt of the notice of the
   first meeting of creditors. 11 U.S.C. §341. This meeting is scheduled
   immediately and it will be conducted within 20 to 40 days after the
   date of filing. Bankruptcy Rule 2003. The purpose of this meeting is to
   allow the Assistant U.S. Trustee or the case trustee (one of whom
   presides) to satisfy themselves of the accuracy and completeness of the
   petition and schedules. The meeting has the equally important function
   of providing all of the creditors with a forum for making inquiry of
   the debtor with regard to facts and allegations contained in the
   petition and support documents. This meeting is probably the most
   important event which occurs in most bankruptcy cases. The case trustee
   also uses this meeting to begin planning strategy for liquidating the
   estate.

   Assuming that there are no formal objections to the granting of a
   discharge in bankruptcy, the Court will enter an order granting
   discharge approximately 60 days after the first meeting of creditors.
   Bankruptcy Rule 4004. It is within this 60 day period that creditors
   are given an opportunity to file a complaint objecting to the discharge
   under 11 U.S.C. '727 or to the dischargeability of a particular debt
   under 11 U.S.C. §523.

   During the period between the creditors' meeting and the entry of the
   discharge, the panel trustee does most of his work in disposing of the
   property of the estate. As you will see in the next subsection, the
   trustee analyzes each piece of non-exempt property of the debtor and
   either abandons or sells that piece of property. The case trustee will
   also closely examine the exemption schedule to determine whether the
   debtor has taken proper exemptions in allowed amounts. In most cases
   (the "typical case"), the trustee becomes satisfied that there are no
   non-exempt assets which can be sold for the benefit of creditors and he
   then files a document captioned TRUSTEE'S REPORT OF NO DISTRIBUTION.
   See, PART IV for an example of this document. By filing this document,
   the trustee is saying that he cannot sell any property, the proceeds of
   which can be distributed to the unsecured creditors.

   At some point about 3 or 4 months after filing, the Bankruptcy Clerk's
   Office will determine: 1) that the creditor's meeting was held; 2) that
   the trustee has filed his final report (showing a final distribution or
   no distribution); 3) that no objection to the discharge has been timely
   filed; and 4) that the order of discharge has been entered by the
   judge. At this point, the case will be closed. See diagram following
   this PART which reveals the flow of an ordinary "no asset" case.

   ADMINISTERING A BANKRUPTCY CASE - The Estate

   An extremely important and elementary bankruptcy concept has to do with
   the creation of an estate. "The commencement of a case ... creates an
   estate". 11 U.S.C. §541. Section 541 (a) of the Bankruptcy Code
   identifies what property becomes property of the estate. Essentially,
   all of the debtor's property becomes property of the estate. See, "pie
   chart" at the end of this PART.

   Once an estate has been created, every other bankruptcy tool, concept,
   provision, device, and procedure kicks in. After the estate has been
   created, it becomes the business of bankruptcy to dismantle this
   creation. FILING CREATES AN ESTATE AND CASE  - ADMINISTRATION TAKES IT
   APART. Various efforts of the debtor, the creditors, and particularly
   the trustee, will operate to eat up all of the pie that is reflected in
   the diagrams which follow. The first of the diagrams following this
   PART is an example of an estate which is created by the bankruptcy
   filing and the second diagram is an example of the legal devices used
   to dismantle the estate.

   LIQUIDATING THE ESTATE

   The way that we know that a bankruptcy case is over, or about over, is
   that there is no longer any property in the estate which was created by
   the bankruptcy filing. Following is a discussion of several of ways
   that property leaves the bankruptcy estate - these are very common
   concepts in essentially every bankruptcy case.

   Abandonments

   Perhaps the most common way that property leaves the estate is through
   a process called abandonment. Abandonment occurs when the case trustee
   decides that he doesn't want anything to do with a particular piece of
   property. Abandonment does not mean that the trustee has left the
   tractor out in the hay field to rust and ruin. It simply means that he
   has no interest in the tractor. Generally, the trustee abandons
   property when:

   1. The property is secured and the secured

   creditor has proven its secured interest to the

   trustee's satisfaction; or

   2. The property is worthless; or

   3. It would cost more to liquidate (sell)

   the property than would be realized by the

   sale.

   When the trustee does abandon property, he files a "Notice of Intent to
   Abandon". See, PART IV for an example of this document.

   The process of abandonment results in property no longer being property
   of the estate and has the effect of putting the parties who have an
   interest in the property back in their pre-bankruptcy positions.
   [However, a secured creditor may still need to obtain court approval to
   seize the property.]

   In essence, the reason a trustee abandons a piece of property is ALWAYS
   because he cannot sell the item and make any money. See, 11 U.S.C.
   §554.

   Reaffirmations

   When someone files bankruptcy, the law prohibits them from agreeing to
   repay some of his preferred creditors. There is no legal prohibition in
   actually paying a creditor, but the debtor simply cannot agree to
   resume payments to a favorite creditor or series of creditors. By this
   provision, Congress is attempting to make certain that an unscrupulous
   or particularly aggressive creditor does not use its influence or
   persuasiveness to talk a debtor into repaying a dischargeable debt.

   However, there is an exception to this rule. The law does recognize
   what is called a "reaffirmation agreement" (sometimes "reaff"). The
   intention in permitting these reaffirmation agreements is to allow the
   debtor who really wants to keep a piece of property to do so, but only
   after the court is satisfied that the debtor knows what he is doing.
   For instance, say the debtor wants to keep his $18,000 Corvette and
   continue to keep his payments current; perhaps he likes the car or
   maybe he has substantial equity in the vehicle. At this point, the
   debtor and the bank (or whoever the creditor might be) can enter into a
   reaff (sometimes called a "New Promise to Pay"). This is no more than a
   new contract on property currently in the debtor's possession. The
   reaff is generally a pretty simple document. It contains standard
   contract provisions but, importantly, must include a provision which
   reflects that the debtor has the right to rescind "...at any time prior
   to discharge or within sixty days after such agreement is filed with
   the court, whichever occurs later ...". 11 U.S.C. §524 (c)(2). In
   addition, the reaff must be accompanied by an affidavit of the debtor's
   lawyer which reveals that counsel has thoroughly explained the new
   contract, that the debtor knows the consequences of entering into this
   new contract, and that the agreement will not impose an undue hardship
   upon the debtor. See, 11 U.S.C. §524 (c)(3). You will find an example
   of a "Reaffirmation Agreement" (or "New Promise to Pay") in PART IV of
   this Guide.

   Redemptions

   Sometimes a debtor wants to keep a particular piece of property, upon
   which he still owes some money, but he does not want to reaffirm the
   entire indebtedness because he (the debtor) believes that the property
   is not worth what is owed. Under these circumstances he may look at
   whether or not to "redeem" the property. Redemption is limited to
   secured personal property which is "...intended primarily for personal,
   family or household use ...". 11 U.S.C.  §722. In addition, the debtor
   must have exempted the property which he intends to redeem.

   For example, consider the debtor who bought a refrigerator from Sears
   for $800. He financed the appliance for 18 months, has been paying for
   a year, and still owes $500 subject to Sear's purchase money lien. The
   debtor can now file a motion to redeem or a motion to value security
   and the court will hear evidence going to the value of the
   refrigerator. If the court finds that the item is worth only $250.00,
   the debtor will be permitted to redeem for that amount. However, the
   law requires the entire redemption value to be paid at the time of the
   court's ruling.


   Sale & Distribution

   The concept of sale and distribution doesn't apply in our "typical
   case". Remember, in the typical case there are no non-exempt or
   "sellable" assets in the estate. However, sale and distribution is
   extremely important to discuss because this is the way everyone (except
   perhaps the debtor) would like to see a bankruptcy proceed.

   Sometimes, the debtor will have some real or personal property that has
   value and which he cannot exempt because he has exhausted his
   exemptions (like antiques, or a hunting cabin with 700 acres, or a
   second or third car that is paid for...). When non-exempt assets are
   revealed, the trustee will file an application with the court to sell
   the property for the benefit of the unsecured creditors. Upon filing of
   the application to sell, the clerk's office will give all parties
   notice of the proposed sale. After the sale, the trustee will file a
   report of the sale so that the court will know what was sold and the
   nature of the expenses of the sale. After the trustee has liquidated
   all of the non-exempt assets, he will apply to the court to make
   distribution to those creditors who have filed proper claims. The
   bankruptcy clerk's office will issue a notice to all creditors of the
   proposed distribution and, assuming there are no objections to the
   proposed distribution, the court will enter an order which permits
   distributing all of the money. If there are objections to the proposed
   distribution, the objections will be litigated and then distribution
   will be made.


   Exemptions

   We have touched upon the area of exemptions throughout this section.
   The law gives everyone who files bankruptcy the right to "exempt"
   certain things from becoming property of the bankruptcy estate. Again,
   this is consistent with the "fresh start" that Congress intended to
   give those who seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. "Exempting"
   property means keeping property out of the estate which is created upon
   filing. As we have seen, West Virginia law governs what, and how much,
   can be exempted in the U.S. Bankruptcy Courts in West Virginia. The
   debtors list their exemptions in the schedule labeled C attached to the
   petition. Please see PART III for a more detailed discussion of
   exemptions.


                                  PART III


   THE MEETING OF CREDITORS

   The creditor=s meeting is one very, very important event which is
   familiar to even the most casual of bankruptcy practitioners. In fact,
   this event may well be the only time you leave your office to manage
   your typical no asset Chapter 7 case. In West Virginia=s two federal
   districts, you will receive notice of the date for the meeting of
   creditors is almost immediately after the case is filed. The meeting
   itself must be scheduled between 20 and 40 days after the case is filed
   (not less than 20 days nor more than 40 days after the filing).
   Bankruptcy Rule 2003. The Code says that the U.S. Trustee "shall
   convene and preside at" the meeting of creditors, but generally it is
   the U.S. Trustee=s designee - the case trustee - who actually presides.
   The purpose of this statutory meeting is really two-fold: (1.) to give
   all of the creditors an opportunity to inquire of the debtor who is
   under oath; and, (2.) to permit the presiding officer an opportunity to
   ensure that the debtor understands the most essential consequences of
   filing a bankruptcy. Inquiry should really be limited to the debtor=s
   financial condition and questions relating to administration of the
   bankruptcy estate and the granting of a discharge in bankruptcy.
   Ordinarily, few if any creditors appear, and the meeting lasts only
   perhaps five (5) or ten (10) minutes.
