http://www.compliance.gov/images/102b2001.pdf

   SECTION 102(b) REPORT Review and Report on the Applicability to the
   Legislative Branch of Federal Laws Relating to Terms and Conditions of
   Employment and Access to Public Services and Public Accommodations
   Prepared by the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance Pursuant
   to Section 102(b) of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, 2
   U.S.C. § 1302(b) December 31, 2000 SECTION 102(b) REPORT Section 102(a)
   of the Congressional Accountability Act (CAA) lists the eleven laws
   that, "shall apply, as prescribed by this Act, to the legislative
   branch of the Federal Government."1 Section 102(b) directs the Board of
   Directors (Board) of the Office of Compliance (Office) to: review
   provisions of Federal law (including regulations) relating to (A) the
   terms and conditions of employment (including hiring, promotion,
   demotion, termination, salary, wages, overtime compensation, benefits,
   work assignments or reassignments, grievance and disciplinary
   procedures, protection from discrimination in personnel actions,
   occupational health and safety, and family and medical and other leave)
   of employees, and (B) access to public services and accommodations.
   And, on the basis of this review, [b]eginning on December 31, 1996, and
   every 2 years thereafter, the board shall report on (A) whether or to
   what degree the provisions described in paragraph (1) are applicable or
   inapplicable to the legislative branch, and (B) with respect to
   provisions inapplicable to the legislative branch, whether such
   provisions should be made applicable to the legislative branch. 1The
   nine private-sector laws made applicable by the CAA are: the Fair Labor
   Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. § 201 et seq.) (FLSA), Title VII of
   the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.) (Title VII),
   the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.)
   (ADA), the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. §
   621 et seq.) (ADEA), the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29
   U.S.C. § 2611 et seq.) (FMLA), the Occupational Safety and Health Act
   of 1970 (29 U.S.C. § 651 et seq.) (OSHAct), the Employee Polygraph
   Protection Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. § 2001 et seq.) (EPPA), the Worker
   Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (29 U.S.C. § 2101 et seq.)
   (WARN Act), and section 2 of the Uniformed Services Employment and
   Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA). The two federal-sector laws
   made applicable by the CAA are: Chapter 71 of title 5, United States
   Code (relating to federal service labor-management relations) (Chapter
   71), and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. § 701 et seq.). This
   report uses the term "CAA laws" to refer to these eleven laws. I.
   Background In December of 1996, the Board completed its first biennial
   report mandated under section 102(b) of the CAA (1996 Section 102(b)
   Report or 1996 Report).2 In that Report the Board reviewed and analyzed
   the universe of federal law relating to labor, employment and public
   access, made initial recommendations, and set priorities for future
   reports. To conduct its analysis, the Board organized the provisions of
   federal law according to the kinds of entities to which they applied,
   and systematically analyzed whether and to what extent they were
   already applied to the legislative branch or whether the legislative
   branch was already covered by other comparable legislation. This
   analysis generated four comprehensive tables of laws which were
   categorized as: (1) provisions of law generally applicable in the
   private sector and/or in state and local government that also are
   already applicable to entities in the legislative branch, a category
   which included nine of the laws made applicable by the CAA; (2)
   provisions of law that apply only in the federal sector, a category
   which included the two exclusively federal-sector laws applied to the
   legislative branch by the CAA; (3) private-sector and/or state- and
   local-government provisions of law that do not apply in the legislative
   branch, but govern areas in which Congress has already applied to
   itself other, comparable provisions of law and; (4) private-sector laws
   which do not apply or have only very limited application in the
   legislative branch. The Board then turned to its task of recommending
   which statutes should be applied to the legislative branch. In light of
   the large body of statutes that the Board had identified and reviewed,
   the Board determined that it could not make recommendations concerning
   every possible change in legislative-branch coverage. In setting its
   priorities for making recommendations from among the categories of
   statutes that the Board had identified for analysis and review, the
   Board sought to mirror the priorities of the CAA. Because legislative
   history suggested that the highest priority of the CAA was the
   application of private-sector protections to congressional employees
   where those employees had little or no protection, the Board focused
   its recommendations in its first report on applying the private-sector
   laws not currently applicable to the legislative branch. The Board also
   determined in its 1996 Section 102(b) Report that, because of the CAA's
   focus on coverage of the Congress under private-sector laws, the
   Board's next priority should be to review the inapplicable provisions
   of the nine private-sector laws generally made applicable by the CAA.
   In December 1998 the Board set forth the results of that review in its
   second biennial report under Section 102(b) of the CAA (1998 Section
   102(b) Report or 1998 Report).3 2Section 102(b) Report: Review and
   Report of the Applicability to the Legislative Branch of Federal Law
   Relating to Terms and Conditions of Employment and Access to Public
   Services and Accommodations (Dec. 31,1996). 3Section 102(b) Report:
   Review and Report on the Applicability to the Legislative Branch of
   Federal Law Relating to Terms and Conditions of Employment and Access
   to Public Services -2- The 1998 Section 102(b) Report was divided into
   three parts. In Part I the Board reviewed laws enacted after the 1996
   Section 102(b) Report, resubmitted the recommendations made in its 1996
   Report, and made additional recommendations as to laws which should be
   made applicable to the legislative branch. In Part II the Board
   analyzed which provisions of the private-sector CAA laws do not apply
   to the legislative branch and recommended which should be made
   applicable. In Part III of the 1998 Report, although not required by
   section 102(b) of the CAA, the Board reviewed coverage of the General
   Accounting Office (GAO), the Government Printing Office (GPO) and the
   Library of Congress (the Library) under the laws made applicable by the
   CAA and made recommendations to Congress with respect to changing that
   coverage. The Board noted that the study mandated by Section 230 of the
   CAA which was submitted to Congress in 19964 did not include
   recommendations to Congress with respect to coverage of these three
   instrumentalities.5 The Board concluded that the 1998 Section 102(b)
   Report, which focused on omissions in coverage of the legislative
   branch under the laws generally made applicable by the CAA, provided
   the opportunity for the Board to make recommendations to Congress
   regarding coverage of GAO, GPO and the Library under those laws.6 As
   discussed in Section IV.C below, the Board Members identified three
   principal options for Congress to consider but were divided in their
   recommendation as to which option was preferable. In the preparation of
   this 2000 Section 102(b) Report, the third biennial report issued under
   section 102(b) of the CAA, the Board has reviewed new statutes or
   statutory amendments enacted after the Board's 1998 Section 102(b)
   Report was prepared. The Board has also reviewed the Section 102(b)
   reports issued in 1996 and 1998 and the analysis and recommendations
   contained therein. and Accommodations (Dec. 31, 1998). 4Section 230 of
   the CAA mandated a study of the status of the application of the eleven
   CAA laws to GAO, GPO and the Library to "evaluate whether the rights,
   protections and procedures, including administrative and judicial
   relief, applicable to [these instrumentalities] ... are comprehensive
   and effective ... includ[ing] recommendations for any improvements in
   regulations or legislation." Originally, the Administrative Conference
   of the United States was charged with carrying out the study and making
   recommendations, but when the Conference lost its funding, the
   responsibility for the study was transferred to the Board. 5Section 230
   Study: Study of Laws, Regulations, and Procedures at The General
   Accounting Office, The Government Printing Office and The Library of
   Congress (December 1996) (Section 230 Study). 6The Board also found
   that resolution of existing uncertainty as to whether GAO, GPO and
   Library employees alleging violations of sections 204-207 of the CAA
   may use CAA procedures was an additional reason to include
   recommendations about coverage. -3- II. Review of Laws Enacted after
   the 1998 Section 102(b) Report After reviewing all federal laws and
   amendments relating to terms and conditions of employment or access to
   public accommodations and services passed since October 1998, the Board
   concludes that there are no new provisions of law which should be made
   applicable to the legislative branch. As in the two previous Section
   102(b) reports, the Board excluded from consideration those laws that,
   although employment-related, (1) are specific to narrow or specialized
   industries or types of employment not found in the legislative branch
   (e.g., employment in fire protection activities, or the armed forces);
   (2) established government programs of research, data collection,
   advocacy, or training, but do not establish correlative rights and
   responsibilities for employees and employers (e.g., statutes
   authorizing health care research); (3) authorize, but do not require,
   that employers provide benefits to employees, (e.g., so-called
   "cafeteria plans"); or (4) are not applicable to public sector
   employment (e.g., an amendment clarifying the treatment of stock
   options under the FLSA). III. 1996 Section 102(b) Report In preparation
   for the first Section 102(b) Report, as noted earlier, the Board
   reviewed the entire United States Code to identify laws and associated
   regulations of general application that relate to terms and conditions
   of employment or access to public services and accommodations. Noting
   the underlying priorities of the Act itself, the Board chose to focus
   its 1996 Report on the identified provisions of law generally
   applicable in the private sector for which there was no similar
   coverage in the legislative branch. The Board has reviewed the 1996
   Section 102(b) Report and the recommendations contained therein, as
   well as the additional discussion of those recommendations found in the
   1998 Section 102(b) Report. The Board of Directors again submits the
   following recommendations which were made in the 1996 Section 102(b)
   Report and resubmitted in the 1998 Section 102 (b) Report: (A)
   Prohibition against discrimination on the basis of bankruptcy (11
   U.S.C. § 525). Section 525(a) provides that "a governmental unit" may
   not deny employment to, terminate the employment of, or discriminate
   with respect to employment against, a person that is or has been a
   debtor under the bankruptcy statutes. The provision currently does not
   apply to the legislative branch. For the reasons set forth in the 1996
   Section 102(b) Report, the board has determined that the rights and
   protections against discrimination on this basis should be applied to
   the legislative branch. (B) Prohibition against discharge from
   employment by reason of garnishment (15 U.S.C. § 1674(a)). Section
   1674(a) prohibits discharge of any employee because his or her earnings
   "have been subject to garnishment for any one indebtedness." This
   section is limited to private employers, so it currently has no
   application to the legislative branch. For the reason set forth in the
   1996 Section 102(b) -4- Report, the Board has determined that the
   rights and protections against discrimination on this basis should be
   applied to the legislative branch. (C) Prohibition against
   discrimination on the basis of jury duty (28 U.S.C. § 1875). Section
   1875 provides that no employer shall discharge, threaten to discharge,
   intimidate, or coerce any permanent employee by reason of such
   employee's jury service, or the attendance or scheduled attendance in
   connection with such service, in any court of the United States. This
   section currently does not cover legislative-branch employment. For the
   reason set forth in the 1996 Section 102(b) Report, the Board has
   determined that the rights and protections against discrimination on
   this basis should be applied to the legislative branch. (D) Titles II
   and III of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2000a to 2000a-6,
   2000b to 2000b-3). These titles prohibit discrimination or segregation
   on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin regarding the
   goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations
   of "any place of public accommodation" as defined in the Act. Although
   the CAA incorporated the protections of titles II and III of the ADA,
   which prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability with respect
   to access to public services and accommodations, it does not extend
   protection against discrimination based upon race, color, religion, or
   national origin with respect to access to such services and
   accommodations. For the reasons set forth in the 1996 Section 102(b)
   Report, the Board has determined that the rights and protections
   afforded by titles II and III of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 against
   discrimination with respect to places of public accommodation should be
   applied to the legislative branch. IV. 1998 Section 102(b) Report. A.
   Part I of the 1998 Report (new laws enacted and certain other
   inapplicable laws) In the first part of the 1998 Section 102(b) Report,
   the Board noted the enactment of two new employment laws and concluded
   that no further action was needed because substantial provisions of
   each had been made applicable to the legislative branch. Next, as noted
   above, the Board discussed and resubmitted the recommendations made in
   the 1996 Section 102(b) Report. In addition, the Board made three new
   recommendations, one based upon further review and analysis of statutes
   discussed in the 1996 Section 102(b) Report and two others based upon
   experience gained by the Board in the administration and enforcement of
   the CAA. The Board of Directors resubmits the three new recommendations
   made in Part I of the 1998 Section 102(b) Report: (1) Employee
   protection provisions of environmental protection statutes (15 U.S.C. §
   2622; 33 U.S.C. § 1367; 42 U.S.C. §§ 300J-9(i), 5851, 6971, 7622,
   9610). These provisions generally protect an employee from
   discrimination in -5- employment because the employee commences
   proceedings under applicable statutes, testifies in any such
   proceeding, or assists or participates in any way in such a proceeding
   or in any other action to carry out the purposes of the statutes. For
   the reasons stated in the 1998 Section 102(b) Report, the Board
   believes that these provisions are applicable to the legislative
   branch. However, because it is possible to construe certain of these
   provisions as inapplicable, the Board has concluded that legislation
   should be adopted clarifying that the employee protection provisions in
   the environmental protection statutes apply to all entities within the
   legislative branch. (2) Employee "whistleblower" protection. Civil
   service law7 provides broad protection to "whistleblowers" in the
   executive branch and at GAO and GPO, but these provisions do not apply
   otherwise in the legislative branch. Employees subject to these
   provisions are generally protected against retaliation for having
   disclosed any information the employee reasonably believes evidences a
   violation of law or regulation, gross mismanagement or abuse of
   authority, or substantial danger to public health or safety. The Office
   has continued to receive a number of inquiries from legislative branch
   employees concerned about protection against possible retaliation by an
   employing office for the disclosure of what the employee perceives to
   be such information. For the reasons set forth in the 1998 Section
   102(b) Report, the Board has determined that whistleblower protection
   comparable to that provided to executive branch employees under 5
   U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8) should be provided to legislative branch employees.
   (3) Coverage of special-purpose study commissions. Certain
   special-purpose study commissions that include members appointed by
   Congress or by officers of Congressional instrumentalities are not
   expressly listed in section 101(9) of the CAA in the definition of
   "employing offices" covered under the CAA. For the reasons set forth in
   the 1998 Section 102(b) Report, the Board recommends that Congress
   specifically state whether the CAA applies to special-purpose study
   commissions, both when it creates such commissions and for those
   already in existence. 7See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8). -6- B. Part II
   of the 1998 Report (inapplicable private-sector provisions of CAA laws)
   In the second part of the 1998 Section 102(b) Report, the Board
   considered the specific exceptions created by Congress from the nine
   private-sector laws made applicable by the CAA8 and made a number of
   recommendations respecting the application of currently inapplicable
   provisions, "focusing on enforcement, the area in which Congress made
   the most significant departures from the private-sector provisions of
   the CAA laws".9 The Board noted that it intended that those
   recommendations "should further a central goal of the CAA to create
   parity with the private sector so that employers and employees in the
   legislative branch would experience the benefits and burdens as the
   rest of the nation's citizens ".10 The Board of Directors has reviewed
   the 1998 Report and resubmits each of the following recommendations
   made in Part III of the 1998 Section 102(b) Report: (1) Authority to
   investigate and prosecute violations of § 207 of the Act, which
   prohibits intimidation and reprisal. Enforcement authority with respect
   to intimidation or reprisal is provided to the agencies that administer
   and enforce the CAA laws11 in the private sector. For the reasons set
   forth in the 1998 Report, the Board has concluded that the Congress
   should grant the Office the same authority to investigate and prosecute
   allegations of intimidation or reprisal as each implementing Executive
   Branch agency has in the private sector. (2) Authority to seek a
   restraining order in district court in case of imminent danger to
   health or safety. Section 215(b) of the CAA provides the remedy for a
   violation of the substantive provisions of the OSHAct made applicable
   by the CAA. Among other things, the OSHAct authorizes the Secretary of
   Labor to seek a temporary restraining order in district court in the
   case of imminent danger. The General Counsel of the Office, who
   enforces the OSHAct provisions as made applicable by the CAA, has
   concluded that Section 215(b) of the CAA gives him the same standing to
   petition the district court for a temporary restraining order. However,
   it has been suggested that the language of section 215(b) does not
   clearly provide that authority. For the reasons set forth in the 1998
   Section 102(b) Report, the Board recommends that the CAA be amended to
   clarify that the General Counsel has the standing to seek a temporary
   8The private-sector laws made applicable by the CAA are listed in note
   1, at page 1, above. 91998 Section 102(b) Report at 16. 10Id. At 17.
   11The only exception is the WARN Act which has no such authorities. -7-
   restraining order in federal district court and that the court has
   jurisdiction to issue the order. (3) Record-keeping and notice-posting
   requirements. For the reasons set forth in the 1998 Section 102(b)
   Report, the Board has concluded that the Office should be granted the
   authority to require that records be kept and notices posted in the
   same manner as required by the agencies that enforce the provisions of
   law made applicable by the CAA in the private sector. (4) Other
   enforcement authorities. For the reasons set forth in the 1998 Section
   102(b) Report, the Board generally recommends that Congress grant the
   Office the remaining enforcement authorities that executive-branch
   agencies utilize to administer and enforce the provisions of law made
   applicable by the CAA in the private sector. C. Part III of the 1998
   Report (options for coverage of the three instrumentalities) In the
   third part of the 1998 Report, the Board, building upon its extensive
   Section 230 Study, exhaustively re-examined the current coverage of
   GAO, GPO and the Library under the CAA laws, and identified and
   discussed three principal options for coverage of these
   instrumentalities: (A) CAA Option - Coverage under the CAA, including
   the authority of the Office of Compliance as it administers and
   enforces the CAA. (The Board here took as its model the CAA as it would
   be modified by enactment of the recommendations made in Part II of its
   1998 Report.) (B) Federal-Sector Option - Coverage under the statutory
   and regulatory regime that applies generally in the federal sector,
   including the authority of executive-branch agencies as they administer
   and enforce the laws in the federal sector. (C) Private-Sector Option -
   Coverage under the statutory and regulatory regimes that apply
   generally in the private sector, including the authority of the
   executive-branch agencies as they administer and enforce the laws in
   the private sector. The Board noted that other hybrid models could be
   developed or, it could "be possible to leave the `patchwork' of
   coverages and exemptions currently in place at the three
   instrumentalities and fill serious gaps in coverage on a piecemeal
   basis."12 The Board compared the three options against the current
   regimes at GAO, GPO and the Library, as well as against each other, and
   identified the significant effects of applying each option. The Board
   unanimously concluded that coverage under the private sector model was
   not the best of 121998 Section 102(b) Report at 27. -8- the options.
   However, the Board was divided as to which of the remaining options
   should be adopted. Two Board Members recommended that the three
   instrumentalities be covered under the CAA, with certain modifications,
   and two other Board Members recommended that the three
   instrumentalities be made fully subject to the laws and regulations
   generally applicable in the executive branch of the federal sector.13 A
   review of the analysis, discussion and recommendations contained in the
   Section 230 Study and Part III of the 1998 Section 102(b) Report
   demonstrates the complexity of the issues relating to coverage of GAO,
   GPO and the Library under the CAA laws. The current regime is an
   exceedingly complicated one, with differences evident both between and
   among instrumentalities and between and among the eleven CAA laws. Any
   proposals for changes in existing coverage must not only take into
   account the existing statutory regime, but also the practical effects
   of any recommended changes, as well as the mandates of the CAA,
   including Section 230. Indeed, the degree of the difficulties and
   challenges encountered in determining how the coverage of the
   instrumentalities might be modified is evidenced by the fact that after
   three years of study and experience, the Members of the Board in 1998
   were unable to arrive at a consensus on the manner in which the CAA
   laws should be applied and enforced at GAO, GPO and the Library. While
   the current Board Members are mindful of the institutional benefits of
   providing Congress with a clear recommendation as to coverage of the
   instrumentalities, the Board is of the view that further study and
   consideration of the questions presented is warranted in light of the
   complexity of the issues and the substantial impact that a modification
   would have on the instrumentalities and their employees. The Board
   believes that Congress, and the instrumentalities and their employees,
   would derive greater benefit from a recommendation based upon further
   study, consideration and experience on the part of Board Members.
   Therefore, the Board has determined not to make any recommendations
   with respect to coverage of GAO, GPO and the Library under the CAA laws
   at this time. 13In December 1998, at the time the 1998 Section 102(b)
   Report issued, there were four Board members; the fifth Board member's
   term had expired and a new appointee had not yet been named. Since the
   issuance of the 1998 Report the terms of the four Board members who
   participated in that Report have expired. At present, the five-Member
   Board of Directors is again at its full complement; three Members were
   appointed in October 1999 and two Members were appointed in May 2000.
   -9-
