http://davidbonior.house.gov/10th_district.htm


   M I C H I G A N ' S  1 0 T H  D I S T R I C T

   [Rep.jpg]
   [menu_01.gif]
   [menu_02.gif]
   [menu_03.gif]
   [menu_04.gif]
   [menu_05.gif]
   [menu_06.gif]
   [menu_07.gif]
   [menu_08.gif]

   Congressman David E. Bonior


   [Metro_Beach_Marsh.jpg] The 10th Congressional District of Michigan is
   located northeast of the city of Detroit.  The district includes most
   of Macomb County (excluding only the cities of Warren, Sterling
   Heights, Utica, and Centerline) and all of St. Clair County.  Both
   counties are bordered on the east by bodies of fresh water: Lake St.
   Clair, the St. Clair River and Lake Huron.  The 10th District is a
   majority of suburban communities, small river towns and rural farm
   country.

   Michigan is well known as a water wonderland and the 10th District is
   no exception.  There are many recreational activities offered here,
   especially on the six rivers (the Belle, Black, Clinton, Pine, Sa
   [Metro_Beach_North.jpg] lt, and St. Clair Rivers) and two large lakes
   (Lake St. Clair and Lake Huron) within and adjacent to the district.
   You will find many avid boaters among the residents of this area.  In
   fact, the 10th District has the highest number of registered
   recreational boats in the United States.  The annual Port Huron to
   Mackinac Island Yacht Race takes place in July.  This well-known
   regatta includes [Boats.jpg] over 300 entries and attracts
   approximately 100,000 visitors each year.  However, boating is not the
   only way to  enjoy the 10th District's waterways.  There are also
   beaches, marinas, parks and restaurants gracing these shores.

   Yet, recreational fun is not limited to water sports.  Michigan has the
   third highest number of golf courses in the country and there are
   plenty to choose from in the 10th District (Fore!).  And for cyclists,
   joggers, rollerbladers and those who like a good old-fashioned walk,
   there is the 11.2 mile Macomb County Hike-Bike Path that crisscrosses
   its way among many parks in the 10th District.  Congressman Bonior
   working in partnership with local and state officials, small and large
   businesses, Boy Scouts and enthusiastic volunteers, helped to create
   this recreational trail winding its way throughout Clinton Township.

   Macomb County is also well known as a national electoral bellwether and
   has been studied and polled by journalists, academics and political
   [Stony_Creek_Trail.jpg] consultants numerous times. According to
   "Politics in America," in 17 of the past 19 elections for president,
   governor, or U.S. senator, the winner in Macomb County has also been
   the statewide winner.

   The southern two-thirds of Macomb County is the home to suburban
   communities. Most businesses in the Detroit area revolve around the
   automotive industry and this is also true for Macomb County – from the
   automotive factories that line the Van Dyke corridor, the parts
   suppliers along the Groesbeck Highway, to many other related
   manufacturing and service industries. There is also a thriving small
   business community, including the marinas, dealerships and restaurants
   tied to the boating industry. The northern, less-suburban part of the
   Macomb County is home to soybean growers, fruit orchards, and corn and
   dairy farms.

   Overall, St. Clair County is more rural than Macomb County and has a
   more diverse farming economy. Instead of orchards, there are cash
   crops, sugar-beet growers, dairy farms, and hay farmers. However, St.
   Clair County’s largest city, Port Huron, has recently been experiencing
   new growth. Port Huron’s next-door neighbor is Sarnia, Ontario – right
   across the St. [Bridge.jpg] Clair River. The Blue Water Bridge, which
   spans the St.Clair River, connects Port Huron to Sarnia. A second span
   of this important trade link was recently completed and opened for
   business in 1997. With the help of Congressman Bonior, state
   legislators, county, city and township officials, the vision for the
   Second Span was made a reality by working hand-in-hand with our
   neighbors in Ontario to create this new link to meet the ever
   increasing trade, travel and transportation needs of the growing Blue
   Water area.

   Canadians and Americans have also used the newest technologies and the
   newest frontiers of commerce – private investment with government
   cooperation – to build a new double-stack rail tunnel. The tunnel,
   which required Presidential approval, began operation on May 5, 1995.
   It has provided a "gateway" to the U.S. markets for auto suppliers, and
   has created over 700 jobs in the auto supply business in Macomb County
   alone. Cargo carried through the tunnel is 60 percent auto related and
   rail lines serve 27 Michigan auto plants. In 1994, $30 billion in trade
   between the U.S. and Canada passed through the port of Port Huron,
   making it the third busiest port on the northern border.

   In the 10^th District of Michigan, education is an important foundation
   of our community and the key to economic prosperity. Those of us in
   Macomb and St. Clair Counties value quality education and the
   opportunities our schools and teachers provide for our future. History
   shows us that what you learn is what you earn. The best way to help our
   families have a shot at the more prosperous future is to ensure that
   they have access to the tools they need to improve their skills and
   earn a first-rate education. That is why we are so fortunate to have
   two of the best community colleges in the country – Macomb Community
   College and St Clair County Community College.

   Since its founding in 1954, Macomb Community College (MCC) has grown to
   four campuses (Warren, Fraser, and two in Clinton Township), two full
   service libraries, and a professional performing arts center. It offers
   over 50 associate degree programs and features slightly over 1000
   different courses. Since 1991, Macomb Community College has been home
   to a state of the art University Center which offers bachelor’s and
   master’s degrees from seven senior colleges and universities. Macomb
   Community College is the fifth largest granter of associates degrees in
   the United States, granting over 2,500 degrees during the 1994-95
   school year. It traditionally ranks among the highest student
   enrollment of any college in Michigan – with over 44,000 in the 1996-97
   school year alone.

   St. Clair Community College, commonly referred to as SC4, was
   established in 1923 and is the third oldest community college in the
   State of Michigan. The college offers over 700 sections during regular
   semesters with strong programs in industrial technology, business and
   nursing. Its diverse student body routinely exists of approximately
   4,300 college credit students and over 2,500 students seeking personal
   enrichment or an upgrade in their job skills. The main campus is
   located in Port Huron, but it is truly a college of Michigan’s
   "thumb"area with off-campus centers in Algonac, Yale, Imlay City, Peck
   and Bad Axe. Perhaps the most unique feature of SC4 is its
   international "twinning" agreement with Canada’s Lambton College
   located in Sarnia, Ontario just across the St. Clair River from Port
   Huron. The twinning agreement allows students to take courses at either
   college without paying additional tuition. It is just one of the many
   educational, economic and cultural exchanges these two communities
   share.

   There is a rich tapestry of cultures represented in the 10^th District:
   German, Polish, and Italian have the greatest concentration, while
   Lebanese, Belgian, African-American, Hispanic, Irish, Ukranian and
   other Eastern European ancestries are also prevalent.

   The 10^th District of Michigan is unique, interesting and diverse.
   Those who are from the 10^th District know it as a wonderful place to
   live and raise a family. For those of you who are not from this area, I
   welcome you to come for a visit – it has something to offer everyone.

   If you are unsure whether you reside in the 10^th District of Michigan,
   please refer to the list of zip codes which are located in the 10^th
   District.

   Photos, top to bottom: Metro Beach Marsh, Metro Beach Marsh North, View
   of the Port Huron - Macinac Island Yacht Race, Stony Creek Trail and
   the Blue Water Bridge
