http://www.ilsd.uscourts.gov/juryinfo.html

   United States District Court - Southern District of Illinois
   [emblem2.jpg] Click here for informantion on The Court. Click here for
   the Office Directory. Click here for Locations. Click here for
   information on Reference. Click here for PACER Case information. Click
   here for Local Rules. Click here for Forms. Click here for Recent
   Opinions. Click here for information on Filing Cases. Click here for
   Instructions. Click here for Fees. Click here for Court Calendar. Click
   here for information on Judges. Click here for Jury Information.
   [b-hr.gif] [b-links.gif] Click here for Site Map. Click here to Return
   Home.


   Jury Information

   Welcome to the Federal Jury Service

        * General Information
        * Frequently Asked Questions

      You have been selected to serve as a juror for the United States
      District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.  In addition to
      the information found below on this page, you can search the Frequently
      Asked Questions (FAQ) page for help.
      Serving as a juror is a fundamental obligation we all share as citizens
      of the United States. Only by having persons like yourself participate
      in the process can we ensure that all persons in the federal court will
      be afforded the constitutional right to have their case heard by a jury
      of their peers. We appreciate your willingness to accept this
      responsibility.
      How You Were Selected:
      Your name was selected randomly from the list of registered voters or
      driver's license list in the county where you live. Jurors in this
      district are drawn from 38 neighboring counties.
      Jury Summons and Qualification Questionnaire:
      Your summons date and courthouse address are on the front of the form
      that you received. You must complete the questionnaire and return it
      within ten days of receipt to the Clerk's Office in the envelope
      provided.
      Term of Service:
      You will be on call for one (1) month. An average trial lasts 1-3 days,
      but some may be longer. Court is usually in session from 8:00 a.m.
      until 4:30 P.M.
      Facilities:
      Coffee will be provided. A snack room is available on the first floor
      of the courthouse. A refrigerator and microwave are available for your
      use. A list of area restaurants will be available to the jury assembly
      room.
      Directions to the Courthouse: Benton or East St. Louis
      Parking:
      Benton jurors may park free of charge in the parking lot east of the
      courthouse.

      East St. Louis jurors may park free of charge in St. Mary's Hospital
      Visitors Lot at 8th and Broadway.
      Juror Check-In:
      Jurors who are called to court to serve must report to the jury clerk
      on entry to the courthouse. Please be prompt.
      Payment to Jurors:
      You will receive a $40.00 attendance fee and 34.5 cents a mile for
      travel to the courthouse and return. Your checks will be mailed to you
      within two (2) weeks of service.
      Taxability of Attendance Fees:
      At the end of the tax year, a Form 1099 will be sent to those jurors
      who have received $600 or more in attendance fees. This form will be
      received by January 31. Questions regarding taxability of attendance
      fees should be referred to a qualified tax advisor.
      Attendance Certificates:
      You will receive an attendance certificate for each day that you report
      for jury service.
      Recorded Message:
      The 800 number on your summons is important. You must call this number
      on the weekend prior to your summons date. Specific information on
      reporting will be given to you at that time.
      Request for Excuse:
      Grounds for permanent excuse are self explanatory on the questionnaire.
      All requests for excuse due to health must be accompanied by a
      statement from your physician. Please attach all correspondence to your
      questionnaire. Requests will be granted or denied within two weeks of
      receipt by postcard reply.
      Long Distance Travel:
      Jurors who must travel 60 miles or more are entitled to stay overnight
      and will be paid the basic subsistence of $85 per stay.
      Failure to Report:
      Jurors who fail to report and who are not excused may be served a show
      cause order by the U.S. Marshal. Contempt penalties can be from $100
      fine to three days imprisonment, or both.


     The Court   Reference   Filing Cases   Judges   Jury Information
   Human Resources  Links  Site Map   Return Home
   750 Missouri Avenue
   East St. Louis, IL 62201 301 West Main Street
   Benton, IL 62812
