http://ord.uscourts.gov/Role%20of%20US%20Magistrate.pdf

   THE ROLE OF A UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE IN THE ADMINISTRATION AND
   ADJUDICATION OF CIVIL CASES IN THE DISTRICT OF OREGON During a recent
   gathering of the U.S. District Court's Ninth Circuit Lawyers
   Delegation, it became evident that some confusion still exists between
   the role of a magistrate judge as the assigned judge, the dispositive
   authority of a magistrate judge when all parties have filed written
   consents pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 73(b), and the normal appeal route
   for appealing final orders and judgments entered by a magistrate judge
   in consent cases. At the request of the delegation, I've been asked to
   write an article to help lawyers and their clients better understand: G
   The unique and indispensable role played by Oregon's magistrate judges1
   in the assignment, management and trial of civil cases. G How
   magistrate judges in Oregon come to be the "assigned judge" in civil
   cases. G The scope of the magistrate judge's initial authority as the
   "assigned judge". G The jurisdictional authority provided by
   Fed.R.Civ.P. 73(a) which permits a magistrate judge to "conduct any or
   all proceedings, including a jury or non-jury trial" when parties have
   filed consents. G The "normal appeal route" for appealing final orders
   and judgments in consent cases. G The substantial monetary and time
   savings which accrue to litigants when they consent to a magistrate
   judge adjudicating their case. 1 Section 321 of the Judicial
   Improvements Act of 1990, P.L. 101-650, effective December 1, 1990,
   recognized the expanded nation-wide role of United State magistrates in
   the management and trial of civil cases. In order to encourage broader
   acceptance of the United States magistrates at the national level,
   Congress amended the Federal statutes to rename United States
   magistrates to magistrate judges. In the District of Oregon, however,
   United States magistrates have always been referred to as "judges" and
   are accepted by the lawyers and litigants alike as trial judges of this
   highest caliber. Revised February 23, 1995 ROLE OF THE UNITED STATES
   MAGISTRATE JUDGE Page 1 USDC Oregon RANDOM SELECTION OF THE "ASSIGNED
   JUDGE" In the District of Oregon, the first event associated with the
   filing of a new civil action is the random selection of an assigned
   judge. Since 1984, resident district and magistrate judges in the
   Portland or Eugene divisions have been included in the pool of judicial
   officers available for random selection as the assigned judge.
   SOLICITATION OF CONSENTS--Fed.R.Civ.P. 73 Once the assigned judge has
   been selected, the local rules require filing counsel to serve a copy
   of a "consent form" to each party served in the action. Via the consent
   form, each party is afforded an initial opportunity under Fed.R.Civ.P.
   73(b) to consent to having a magistrate judge assume complete civil
   jurisdiction over the case. In order to ensure the just, speedy and
   inexpensive determination of every action contemplated by Fed.R.Civ.P.
   1, the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990 also modified Fed.R.Civ.P.
   73(b) to permit assigned district and magistrate judges more
   opportunity throughout the course of litigation to encourage parties
   consent to a magistrate judge. REASONS FOR ENCOURAGING CONSENTS TO
   MAGISTRATE JUDGES Unlike many other district courts, consents in Oregon
   are encouraged for two distinctly different reasons: ! Quality of the
   Magistrate Judges: From the inception of the Federal magistrate system,
   Oregon has recruited state court judges and lawyers of the highest
   caliber. Because of their experience, Oregon magistrate judges are
   uniformly accepted by the practicing bar as "district judge
   equivalents". Oregon's selection of "trial judge quality" magistrate
   judges is unique in the Federal court system. ! Statutory Priority
   Assigned to Criminal Cases: Another more compelling reason for
   encouraging consents is the reality that pending criminal cases have
   relegated civil trials to "second position" in terms of the district
   judges' trial calendars. As a result of the ever increasing criminal
   caseload, Article III judges find themselves more frequently having to
   "double, triple or quadruple set" civil cases, while giving statutory
   priority to criminal cases on their trial calendars. AUTHORITY OF THE
   MAGISTRATE JUDGE AS THE "ASSIGNED JUDGE" If selected as the assigned
   judge in a particular case (regardless of whether consents have been
   filed or not), the magistrate judge will be responsible for all case
   management and scheduling activities and will hear and decide all
   non-dispositive pretrial and discovery matters and consider dispositive
   motions by findings and recommendation. (Fed.R.Civ.P. 72[b]). Revised
   February 23, 1995 ROLE OF THE UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE Page 2
   USDC Oregon AUTHORITY OF THE MAGISTRATE JUDGE IN "CONSENT CASES" If
   consents are filed pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 73(b), the magistrate judge
   will have the same jurisdictional authority as a United States district
   judge, including authority to: ! Schedule, hear and decide all
   dispositive and non-dispositive matters. ! Schedule, hear and decide
   all interlocutory matters. ! Conduct jury or non-jury trials. ! Enter
   final orders and judgment. ! Decide all post-trial motions. "NORMAL
   APPEAL ROUTE" IN CONSENT CASES 28 U.S.C. ยง 636(c)(3) and Fed.R.Civ.P.
   73(c) provide that the "normal appeal route" from any final order or
   judgment entered by a magistrate judge in "consent cases" lies directly
   to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. This is
   exactly the same appeal route taken from a final order or judgment
   entered by a district judge. Case law in this Circuit, and indeed
   throughout the Nation is clear on this point. . .if parties file a
   written consent to permit the magistrate judge to exercise full civil
   jurisdiction, then the magistrate judge can conduct any and all
   proceedings in that case. In turn, any subsequent appeal of a final
   order or judgment would lie directly to the United States Court of
   Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, rather than a de novo review by a
   district judge2, with subsequent right of appeal to the circuit.
   LIMITATIONS AND DELAYS ASSOCIATED WITH "NON-CONSENT CASES" If consents
   are not filed in cases assigned to a magistrate judge, Fed.R.Civ.P.
   72(b) prohibits the magistrate judge from finally deciding "dispositive
   matters and motions". By consenting to a magistrate judge, parties can
   avoid the delays and expense of the de novo review process, while
   preserving the right of appeal directly to the court of appeals.
   Although not intended as a fiscal incentive to secure consents, the net
   effect of Fed.R.Civ.P. 72(b) is to cause all dispositive motions to
   first be considered by the magistrate judge, who in turn will issue a
   findings and recommendation to a district judge. Appeals or objections
   to the findings and recommendation must be filed within ten days and
   the entire matter will be referred to a district judge for de novo
   consideration. After decision by the district judge, the case will be
   returned to the assigned magistrate judge 2 Consents to permit appeals
   to a United States District Judge pursuant to 28 U.S.C. ยง 636(c)(4) [as
   an alternative to a direct appeal to the court of appeals pursuant to
   28 U.S.C. ยง 636(c)(3)] are not accepted within the District of Oregon.
   Revised February 23, 1995 ROLE OF THE UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
   Page 3 USDC Oregon for further processing until another dispositive
   matter is presented (at which time the cycle is repeated), or until the
   case is ready for trial. After discovery has been completed and the
   case is ready for trial, the magistrate judge in "non-consent" cases
   will transfer the case to a district judge for calendaring on that
   district judge's already over-crowded calendar, with the almost certain
   result of having the case "double, triple or quadruple set" for a trial
   date. Obviously, the additional proceedings required in "non-consent"
   cases delay the speedy disposition of the case. More importantly, they
   have the potential to increase the overall cost of litigation. JUDICIAL
   COMPETENCE OF OREGON'S MAGISTRATE JUDGES Referred to as "judges" by
   district judges and lawyers alike, Oregon's magistrate judges bring a
   wealth of litigation and trial court experience to the full range of
   civil cases including contract, real property, personal injury,
   diversity, admiralty and maritime claims, complex patent and trademark
   actions, anti-trust cases and labor disputes. Given the press of
   criminal trial settings on district judges' calendars, magistrate
   judges provide an expeditious and cost effective alternative to
   awaiting a trial or final decision from an Article III district judge.
   From the lawyers' and litigants' standpoint, however, the question
   still remains--"will the quality of a magistrate judge's decision be of
   equal caliber to that of an Article III district judge?" Within the
   District of Oregon, the answer to that question is a resounding yes!
   Acceptance of magistrate judges by lawyers and litigants alike is
   evidenced by the fact that during the 12 month period ending June 30,
   1990, Oregon magistrate judges adjudicated 487 "consent cases" and
   scheduled and conducted numerous jury and non-jury trials in the full
   range of cases pending before the court. CONCLUSION It should be clear
   by now that within the District of Oregon, magistrate judges are
   integral and indispensable members of the judicial complement of this
   Court and, by virtue of their availability, may often times be in the
   best and most consistent position to assure litigants with a speedy,
   just, and inexpensive adjudication of each civil case, while still
   preserving the right of direct appeal to the court of appeals. DONALD
   M. CINNAMOND Clerk of Court Revised February 23, 1995 ROLE OF THE
   UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE Page 4 USDC Oregon
