http://www.io.bnl.gov/IOP-09R0.htm

                        INDEPENDENT OVERSIGHT OFFICE
                                  PROCEDURE

   Categories of Occurrences

                                                                  CAPTION:

   Title

   OCCURRENCE CATEGORIZERS PROCEDURE

   Number

   IOP-09 Rev. 3

   Effective Date

   2/08/2001

   Prime Responsibility Department

   Independent Oversight Office

   Supersedes: IOP-09 Rev. 2

   Date(s): 8/31/00

   Page Number

   1 of 21

   Primary Manager

   Signature Affixed

   R. C. McNair               Date: 2/08/01

   Author(s)

   Signature Affixed

   E.A. Sierra           Date: 2/08/01

   1. Facility Condition

   2. Environmental

   3. Personnel Safety

   4. Personnel Rad.

   5. Safeguard & Sec.

   6. Transportation

   7. Value Basis Rept.

   8. Facility Status

   9. Nuclear Explosive Safety

   10. Cross-Category



   RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATION

   The Occurrence Reporting and Processing System (ORPS) Office located
   within the Independent Oversight Office is responsible for developing
   and maintaining this procedure. This procedure will be reviewed
   annually and revised as required. Direct comments and questions to the
   ORPS Coordinator, Independent Oversight Office.

   APPLICABILITY

   This procedure applies to the ORPS Office and to the BNL Occurrence
   Categorizers.

   AUTHORITY

   The ORPS Coordinator, Independent Oversight Office, is responsible for
   administering the Laboratorys Occurrence Reporting Program. The
   Independent Oversight Office has the authority to independently verify
   the effectiveness, efficiency, and adequacy of the Laboratorys
   Occurrence Reporting Program.

   The Program implements the requirements of DOE Order 232.1A, Occurrence
   Reporting and Processing of Operations Information.

   REQUIREMENTS

   DOE Order 232.1A, Occurrence Reporting and Processing of Operations
   Information

   DOE Order 151.1A Chg 2, Comprehensive Emergency Management System
BNL SBMS Occurrence Reporting Subject Area

   BNL SBMS Occurrence Reporting Program Description

   DEFINITIONS

   Authorization Basis - means those aspects of the facility design basis
   and operational requirements relied upon by DOE to authorize operation.
   These aspects are considered to be important to the safety of the
   facility operations. The authorization basis is described in documents
   such as the facility Safety Analysis Report and other safety analysis;
   Hazard Classification Documents, and the Technical Safety Requirements,
   DOE-issued safety evaluation reports, and facility-specific commitments
   made in order to comply with DOE Orders or policies.  [DOE 5480.23]

   Defective Item, Material, or Service - Any item, material, or service
   that does not meet the commercial standard or procurement requirements
   as defined in catalogues, proposals, procurement specifications, design
   specifications, testing requirements, contracts, or the like. It
   includes those items or services found, during acceptance testing,
   preoperational testing, operations, inspections, or audit, not to meet
   the quality or reliability requirements appropriate to the use or
   specificity of the item or service procured. It also includes
   misrepresentation of the specifications or trademarks associated with
   the parts/service marking, packaging, or certification/identification
   stamps. It does not include parts or services which fail or are
   otherwise found to be inadequate because of random failures or errors
   within the accepted reliability level.  [DOE M 232.1-1A]

   Safety Basis - means the combination of information relating to the
   control of hazards at a nuclear facility (including design, engineering
   analyses, and administrative controls) upon which DOE depends for its
   conclusion that activities at the facility can be conducted safely.
   [DOE 5480.23]

   Safety Class Structures, Systems, or Components (Safety Class SSCs) -
   Nuclear facility structures, systems, or components including primary
   environmental monitors and portions of process systems, whose failure
   could adversely affect the environment or safety and health of the
   public as identified by safety analyses. [DOE 5480.30]

   Safety Significant Structures, Systems, or Components (Safety
   Significant SSCs)  a. Nuclear facility structures, systems, or
   components not designated as Safety Class SSCs but whose preventative
   or mitigative function is a major contributor to defense in depth
   (i.e., prevention of uncontrolled hazardous material release) and/or
   worker safety as determined from hazard analysis.[DOE-STD-3009-94]  b.
   Non-nuclear facility structures, systems, or components whose
   preventative or mitigative function is a major contributor to defense
   in depth (i.e., prevention of uncontrolled hazardous material release)
   and/or worker safety. NOTE: Safety Significant SSC, as used in this
   Manual (change to Procedure), distinguishes a specific category of SSCs
   other than Safety Class SSCs. It should not be confused with the
   generic modifier "safety significant" used in DOE Orders (e.g., DOE
   5480.23).

   Unreviewed Safety Question (USQ) - Activities that involve an
   Unreviewed Safety Issue must not be performed if significant safety
   consequences could result from either an accident or a malfunction of
   equipment important to safety for which a safety analysis has not been
   performed. Activities involving an identified Unreviewed Safety Issue
   must not commence before DOE has provided written approval.  [DOE
   420.2]  A situation involves a Unreviewed Safety Question (USQ) if:
   (1) The probability of occurrence or the consequences of an accident or
   malfunction of equipment important to safety previously evaluated in
   the facility safety analyses could be increased;
   (2) The possibility for an accident or malfunction of a different type
   than any evaluated previously in the facility safety analyses could be
   created; or
   (3) Any margin of safety, as defined in the bases of the TSRs, could be
   reduced.  [DOE 5480.21]

   SCOPE

   This procedure applies to the categorization of events and conditions
   discovered at the BNL site, including those caused by subcontractors,
   vendors, and visitors.

   CATEGORIZERS and SCHEDULE

   The BNL Deputy Director for Operations has appointed specific
   individuals to be BNL Occurrence Categorizers.  A Call List maintained
   by the ORPS Office identifies the individuals, contact information, and
   a schedule. A Categorizer is on-call and available at all times (24
   hrs/day). If the scheduled Categorizer is or will be unavailable for
   any reason, it is his/her responsibility to notify the BNL ORPS Office.
   The BNL ORPS Coordinator is responsible for arranging a replacement
   on-call Categorizer for that period. The ORPS Office is part of the
   Independent Oversight Office.

   The primary means of contacting the on-call Categorizer is via pager
   number 631-453-5887.

   PROCEDURE
     * The on-call Categorizer will have the following set of items

     * Log Book
     * Occurrence Categorizers Procedure
     * Pager

     * The ORPS Office is responsible for maintaining these items.

     * The on-call Categorizer receives notification of a potentially
       reportable event or condition from a BNL Department Chair/Division
       Manager.

     * Through discussion with the Department Chair/Division Manager, the
       Categorizer determines if the event or condition is reportable
       using the Criteria Table of this procedure.

     * Categorization of a reportable Occurrence is to be made within 2
       hours of discovery.

     * The Categorizer records the following information into the
       Categorizer Log Book:

     * Date of call
     * Time of call
     * Name of person who called
     * Call-back phone number
     * Details of the event or condition (this may be brief and is not
       intended to take the place of follow-up investigation and reporting
       by the responsible ORPS Reporting Facility Manager)
     * Decision on reportability; i.e.: Off-Normal, Unusual or Not
       Reportable. If reportable, indicate Category (for example: "Group
       1.B, Off-Normal (1)") and date & time categorized. If not
       reportable, brief explanation why.
     * Other contacts/phone numbers or other information as appropriate

     * If reportable, the Categorizer notifies the BNL ORPS Office of the
       Occurrence.

   RECORDS MANAGEMENT

   Categorizer Log Books will be maintained by the ORPS Office in
   accordance with the Records Management Subject Area.

   CRITERIA TABLE

   Group 1 - Facility Condition
     * 1A Nuclear Criticality Safety
     * 1B Fires/Explosions
     * 1C Safety Status Degradation
     * 1D Loss of Control of Radioactive Material/Spread of Radioactive
       Contamination
     * 1E Safety Structure/System/Component Degradation
     * 1F Violation/Inadequate Procedures
     * 1G Oversight Activities
     * 1H Operations

   A. Nuclear Criticality Safety

       Unusual Occurrence

     Violation of the double contingency criticality specifications such
     that no valid controls are available to prevent a criticality
     accident.

        Off-Normal

     Any nuclear criticality safety violation or infraction of procedures
     not covered by other reporting criteria.  For example, violation of
     a single contingency such that only one valid criticality control
     remains in place.

   B. Fires/Explosions

       Unusual Occurrence

     Any fire or explosion within primary confinement/containment
     boundaries of a nuclear facility.

        Off-Normal

     (1)  Any fire or explosion not required to be reported as an Unusual
     Occurrence that activates a fire suppression system (e.g., halon
     discharge, sprinkler heads activating) or disrupts normal facility
     operations.

     (2)  An unplanned fire that takes longer than 10 minutes to
     extinguish following the arrival of fire protection personnel; this
     does not include fires that do not disrupt normal facility
     operations and which are in the initial or beginning stage that can
     be controlled or extinguished by portable fire extinguishers, Class
     II standpipe, or small hose systems without the need for protective
     clothing or breathing apparatus.

   C. Safety Status Degradation

       Unusual Occurrence

     (1)  Any violation or noncompliance of an approved Technical Safety
     Requirement (Technical Specification or Operational Safety
     Requirement) or other operational safety limit defined by the
     contractor/DOE.

     (2)  Discovery of an incorrectly derived Technical Safety
     Requirement (Technical Specification or Operational Safety
     Requirement) or other operational safety limit defined by the
     contractor/DOE.

     (3)  Any operation outside the authorization basis of the facility
     or process.

     (4)  Any occurrence that would prevent immediate facility or offsite
     emergency response capabilities.

     (5)  Discovery of an actual Unreviewed Safety Question (USQ) which
     reveals a currently existing inadequacy in the approved
     authorization basis.

        Off-Normal

     (1)  Discovery of a condition that leads the facility operating
     personnel to limit facility operations, either self-imposed or due
     to the identification of a potential degradation of the
     authorization bases of a facility or process.  This includes the
     discovery of analytical errors, omissions, or inadequacies that
     present the potential for a USQ.

     (2)  Discovery of a potential USQ that could affect the present or
     future operation of the facility.  Routine USQ determinations due to
     planned system or operational modifications are not reportable under
     this criteria.

   D. Loss of Control of Radioactive Material/Spread of Radioactive
   Contamination

       Unusual Occurrence

     (1)  Identification of radioactive contamination offsite in excess
     of 100 times any of the surface contamination levels specified in
     DOE 5400.5, RADIATION PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC AND THE ENVIRONMENT,
     Figure IV-1, that has not been previously identified and formally
     documented. For the first group listed in Figure IV-1 (i.e.,
     transuranics...) use the values specified in Table 1 of the EH-412
     memorandum "Application of DOE 5400.5 Requirements for Release and
     Control of Property Containing Residual Radioactive Material", dated
     November 17, 1995.

     (2)  Loss of accountability of a sealed source or identification of
     lost radioactive material that exceeds 100 times the quantities
     specified in DOE N441.1, RADIOLOGICAL PROTECTION FOR DOE ACTIVITIES
     (using ORNL/TM-11497 in lieu of Attachment 1 of N441.1).

     (3)  Any fissile material in a process or nonprocess system outside
     primary confinement boundaries not designed or expected to
     accommodate such material.

        Off-Normal

     (1)  Any unplanned spill of liquids in excess of one gallon
     contaminated with radioactive material in concentrations greater
     than five times the Derived Concentration Guide values listed in DOE
     5400.5, Figure III-1.

     (2)  Identification of radioactive contamination outside a
     radiological area (as defined in 10 CFR 835, Occupational Radiation
     Protection) or radiological buffer area established for
     contamination control, but within a Controlled Area, in excess of 10
     times the total contamination levels in 10 CFR 835, Appendix D.  For
     tritium, until a total contamination value is specified by 10 CFR
     835 Appendix D, report  contaminations in excess of 10 times 10,000
     dpm/100cm2.

     (3)  Identification of radioactive contamination onsite that is not
     located within a Controlled Area, Fixed Contamination Area, or Soil
     Contamination Area, and is in excess of two times the total
     contamination levels in 10 CFR 835, Occupational Radiation
     Protection, Appendix D.  For tritium, until a total contamination
     value is specified by 10 CFR 835 Appendix D, report contaminations
     in excess of 2 times 10,000 dpm/100cm2.

     (4)  Identification of radioactive contamination offsite in excess
     of any of the surface contamination levels specified in DOE 5400.5,
     Figure IV-1, that has not been previously identified and formally
     documented.  For the first group listed in Figure IV-1 (i.e.,
     transuranics...) use the values specified in Table 1 of the EH-412
     memorandum "Application of DOE 5400.5 Requirements for Release and
     Control of Property Containing Residual Radioactive Material", dated
     November 17, 1995.

     (5)  Loss of accountability of a sealed source or identification of
     lost radioactive material that is one to less than 100 times the
     quantities specified in DOE N 441.1, RADIOLOGICAL PROTECTION FOR DOE
     ACTIVITIES (using ORNL/TM-11497 in lieu of Attachment 1 of N441.1).

   E. Safety Structure/System/Component Degradation

       Unusual Occurrence

     Performance degradation of any Safety Class Structure, System, or
     Component (SSC) that prevents satisfactory performance of its design
     function when it is required to be operable or in operation.

        Off-Normal

     (1)  Performance degradation of any Safety Class SSC that prevents
     satisfactory performance of its design function when it is not
     required to be operable or in operation.

     (2)  Performance degradation of any nuclear or nonnuclear Safety
     Significant SSC that prevents satisfactory performance of its design
     function when it is required to be operable or in operation.

   F. Violation/Inadequate Procedures

       Unusual Occurrence

     (1)  Maintenance performed on Safety Class SSC without meeting the
     required plant conditions for nonavailability resulting in a
     performance degradation.

     (2)  Incorrect maintenance (including calibration) on or
     unauthorized modifications to Safety Class SSC that was required to
     be operable or in operation and results in a performance
     degradation.

        Off-Normal

     (1)  Any violation resulting in actual equipment damage in excess of
     $10,000

     (2)  Use of inadequate procedures or deviations from written
     procedures that result in adverse effects on performance, safety, or
     reliability.

     (3)  Incorrect maintenance (including calibration) on or
     unauthorized modifications to Safety Significant SSC required to be
     operable or in operation.

   G. Oversight Activities

     Unusual Occurrence

     Any internal/external oversight activity discovering unsatisfactory
     operation, testing, maintenance, or modification of any Safety Class
     SSC that is required to be operable or in operation.

     Off-Normal

     Any internal/external oversight activity discovering unsatisfactory
     operation, testing, maintenance, or modification of any Safety
     Significant SSC required to be operable or in operation.

   H. Operations

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Actuation of Safety Class SSC or their alarms resulting from an
     actual unsafe condition. Inadvertent alarms are not required to be
     reported unless an actuation of a Safety Class SSC occurs and the
     actuation is considered significant as defined by the approved
     facility procedures. Actuation of continuous air monitoring systems
     identified as Safety Class equipment do not have to be reported if
     their actuation was found to be due to radon-thoron effects on the
     system or their actuation is expected due to maintenance tasks and
     other planned operations in the facility where the potential for
     release of radioactivity is anticipated to occur and the workers are
     appropriately protected.

     (2) Loss of incoming alternating current power and failure of any
     backup emergency power system to operate, when the backup emergency
     power system supplies power to a Safety Class SSC.

     (3) Weather conditions/natural phenomenon causing serious disruption
     of facility activities.

     (4) Loss of process ventilation system serving a confinement
     function, which results in the loss of confinement.

     (5) Any facility evacuation (excluding office space) in response to
     an actual occurrence, not including a precautionary evacuation for
     an event that can be controlled and mitigated by employees or
     maintenance personnel assigned to the affected facility or activity.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any unplanned and unexpected change in a process condition or
     variable adversely affecting safety, security, environment, or
     health protection performance sufficient to require termination of a
     procedure in a reactor or nonreactor facility.

     (2) Any unplanned electrical outages or unexpected consequences from
     a planned outage which seriously disrupt normal operations of a
     facility and/or may prevent the facility from meeting approved
     operating goals.

     (3) Any unplanned outages of service systems (i.e., cooling water,
     steam, phones, communication systems, etc.) or unexpected
     consequences from a planned outage which: - disrupt normal
     operations for one week or longer and - which adversely affect
     safety, security, environment or health protection performance.

     (4)  Loss of any process ventilation system serving a confinement
     function which does not result in the loss of confinement.

     (5) Actuation of Safety Significant SSC or their alarms resulting
     from an actual unsafe condition. Inadvertent alarms are not required
     to be reported. Actuation of continuous air monitoring systems
     identified as Safety Significant equipment does not have to be
     reported if their actuation was found to be due to radon-thoron
     effects on the system or their actuation is expected due to
     maintenance tasks and other planned operations in the facility where
     the potential for release of radioactivity is anticipated to occur
     and the workers are appropriately protected.

   Group 2 - Environmental

     2A Radionuclide Releases

     2B Release of Hazardous Substances/Regulated Pollutants/Oil

     2C Hazardous Material Contamination

     2D Ecological Resources

     2E Environmental Agreement/Compliance Activities A. Radionuclide
   Releases

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Release of a radioactive material that violates environmental
     requirements in Federal permits, Federal regulations, or
     requirements established under DOE directives.

     (2) Any release that is not an Emergency as defined in DOE O 151.1
     but which requires immediate reporting (less than 4 hours) to
     Federal regulatory authorities. Release of a radioactive material
     that exceeds a federally permitted release by the amount of a
     Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
     reportable quantity or, where no federally permitted release exists,
     the release exceeds the reportable quantity or triggers specific
     action levels for an outside Federal agency.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any release of radioactive material to controlled or
     uncontrolled areas that is not part of normal monitored release and
     which exceeds 50% of a Comprehensive Environmental Response,
     Compensation and Liability Act reportable quantity specified for
     such material per 40 CFR 302.

     (2) Any controlled release of radioactive material that occurs as a
     monitored part of normal operations that exceeds what historical
     data and/or analysis show is expected as a result of normal
     operations.

     (3) Any monitored site boundary where exposure or concentration
     exceeds what historical data and/or analysis show is expected as a
     result of normal operations.

     (4) Any detection of a radionuclide in a sanitary or storm sewer,
     waste or process stream, or any holding points where such a material
     is not expected.

     (5) Any controlled, uncontrolled, or accidental release not
     categorized as an Unusual Occurrence but will be reported in writing
     to State/local agencies in a format other than routine periodic
     reports.

   B. Release of Hazardous Substances/Regulated Pollutants/Oil

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Release of a hazardous substance or regulated pollutant that
     exceeds a Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
     Liability Act reportable quantity per 40 CFR 302 and 40 CFR 355 for
     chemicals and extremely hazardous substances.

     (2) Any release that is not an Emergency as defined by DOE O 151.1,
     COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM but which requires
     immediate (less than 4 hours) reporting to Federal regulatory
     agencies or triggers specification action levels for an outside
     Federal agency.

     (3) Any discharge of 100 gallons or more of oil of any kind or in
     any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel oil,
     sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged
     spoil. For operations involving oil field crude or condensate, any
     discharge of 100 barrels or more is reportable under this criterion.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Release of a hazardous substance or regulated pollutant to
     controlled or uncontrolled areas that is not part of a normal,
     monitored release and which exceeds 50% of a Comprehensive
     Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act reportable
     quantity as specified for such material per 40 CFR 302.

     (2) Any discharge of greater than 42 gallons of oil of any kind or
     in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel oil,
     sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged
     spoil outside of a permitted containment area. For operations
     involving oil field crude oil or condensate, any discharge less than
     the Unusual Occurrence level but in excess of 10 barrels.

     (3) Any detection of a toxic or hazardous substance in a sanitary or
     storm sewer, waste or process stream, or any holding points where
     such a material is not expected to be found considering the current
     detection method and historical detection method used.

     (4) Any controlled, uncontrolled, or accidental release not
     classified as an Unusual Occurrence but which will be reported in
     writing to State/local agencies in a format other than routine
     periodic reports. Oil spills to soil of less than 10 gallons are not
     reportable into ORPS (Reference: DOE Letter Desmarais to Sheridan,
     November 10, 1998, Subject: "Oil Spills Occurrence Reporting").

     (5) Any controlled release of hazardous/regulated material that
     occurs as a monitored part of normal operation but exceeds what
     historical data and/or analysis shows is expected as a result of
     normal operations.

     (6) Any general environmental monitoring where concentration
     increases to a level which exceeds what historical data and/or
     analysis shows is expected as a result of normal operations.

   C. Hazardous Material Contamination

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Discovery of onsite or offsite contamination due to DOE
     operations that does not represent an immediate threat to the public
     but exceeds a reportable quantity for such material per 40 CFR 302.

     (2) Any discovery of groundwater contamination due to DOE operations
     that is not part of an existing plume previously identified in
     either an annual report or in any Comprehensive Environmental
     Response, Compensation and Liability Act/Resource Conservation and
     Recovery Act activity or report.

     Off-Normal

     Discovery of onsite contamination due to DOE operations that exceeds
     50% of a reportable quantity for such material per 40 CFR 302.

   D. Ecological Resources

     Unusual Occurrence

     Any occurrence causing significant impact to any ecological resource
     for which the DOE is a trustee (i.e., destruction of a critical
     habitat, damage to a historic/archeological site, damage to
     wetlands, etc.).

   E. Environmental Agreement/Compliance Activities

     Unusual Occurrence

     Any occurrence under any agreement or compliance area that requires
     notification of an outside regulatory agency within 4 hours or less,
     or triggers any outside regulatory agency action level.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any agreement, compliance, remediation or permit-mandated
     activity for which formal notification of enforcement has been
     received from the relevant outside regulatory agency that a
     site/facility is considered to be in noncompliance with a schedule
     or requirement (e.g., Notice of Violation, Notice of Deficiency,
     Notice of Intent to Sue, Notice of Noncompliance, Warning Letter,
     Finding of Violation, Finding of Alleged Violation, or a similar
     type enforcement action).

     (2) Any occurrence under any agreement or compliance area that will
     be reported to outside agencies in a format other than routine
     periodic reports.

   Group 3 - Personnel Safety
     * 3A Occupational Illness/Injuries
     * 3B Vehicular Incidents
     * 3C Safety Concerns

   A. Occupational Illness/Injuries

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Any occurrence due to DOE operations resulting in a fatality or
     terminal injury or illness.

     (2) Any one occurrence resulting in 3 or more lost workday cases as
     defined by 29 CFR 1904.12 and Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
     No. 1200-0029.

     (3) Any occurrence requiring in-patient hospitalization of 3 or more
     personnel or that has a high probability of resulting in a permanent
     disability.

     (4) Personnel exposures to sufficient levels of hazardous substances
     or hazards that require the administration of medical treatment on
     the same day as the exposure and are above limits established by the
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration (refer to 29 CFR 1910)
     or American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
     (ACGIH), whichever is lower. These should include:

     (a) Noise
     (b) Non-ionizing radiation
     (c) Chemical Agents
     (d) Physical Agents
     (e) Biological Agents

     (5) Exposures to an immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH)
     (as defined by 29 CFR 1910.120) condition without both appropriate
     personal protective equipment and procedures in place.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any occupational illness or injury that results in inpatient
     hospitalization.

     (2) Series of occupational illnesses from one event involving 3 or
     more people where at least one is a lost work day case.

     (3) Personnel exposure in a single event to hazardous substances or
     hazards in excess of limits, as established by the Occupational
     Safety and Health Administration (refer to 29 CFR 1910), or American
     Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), whichever
     is lower. These should include:

     (a) Noise
     (b) Non-ionizing radiation
     (c) Chemical Agents
     (d) Physical Agents
     (e) Biological Agents

   B. Vehicular Incidents

     This section covers vehicular transportation incidents, including
     DOE or DOE contractor operated aircraft. Group 6 should also be
     considered in categorization for reporting. Transportation incidents
     without injury (e.g., those involving hazardous or radioactive
     material or financial loss) must be reported per the requirements of
     Group 6 or 7.

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Any vehicular incident resulting in fatality(s), injury(s), or
     illness classified under Group 3.A, Unusual Occurrence.

     (2) Any vehicular incident involving Departmental property with a
     fatality(s) to a person(s) other than DOE personnel or DOE
     contractor personnel.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any vehicular incident with injury(s) involving Departmental
     property resulting in a lost workday case.

     (2) Any vehicular incident involving Departmental property with
     injury(s) to a person(s) other than DOE personnel or DOE contractor
     personnel.

   C. Safety Concerns

     Off-Normal

     (1) Unapproved use of flammable, toxic, explosive, corrosive, or
     other unsafe or dangerous processes, chemicals, materials, or
     methods not in accordance with standard operating procedures or work
     plans.

     (2) Any shutdown of a work activity taken as a result of an
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration violation (e.g.,
     trenching without adequate shoring or working at elevated levels
     without fall protection, when required).

   Group 4 - Personnel Radiological Protection
     * 4A Radiation Exposure
     * 4B Personnel Contamination

   A. Radiation Exposure

     Unless specified otherwise, all doses specified in the following
     requirements are calculated as the total effective dose equivalent,
     which is the sum of the committed effective dose equivalent due to
     radionuclides taken into the body (internal exposure) and the
     effective dose equivalent due to external exposure.

     Unusual Occurrence

     Determination of a dose that exceeds the limits specified in 10 CFR
     835, Subpart C, Occupational Radiation Protection (for onsite
     exposure) or DOE 5400.5, Chapter II, Section 1 (for offsite
     exposures to a member of the public).

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any single occupational exposure that exceeds an expected
     exposure by 100 mrem.

     (2) A single unplanned exposure onsite to a minor or member of the
     public that exceeds 50 mrem.

     (3) Determination of a dose that exceeds the reporting requirement
     thresholds specified in DOE 5400.5, Chapter II, Section 7, for
     offsite exposures to a member of the public.

   B. Personnel Contamination

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Any single occurrence resulting in the contamination of five or
     more personnel or clothing (excluding protective clothing) measured
     (prior to washing or decontamination) in accordance with DOE
     Radiological Control Manual, Article 338, or equivalent, at a level
     exceeding the values for total contamination limits identified in 10
     CFR 835, Occupational Radiation Protection, Appendix D. The
     contamination level shall be based on direct measurement and not
     averaged over any area. For tritium, until a total contamination
     value is specified by 10 CFR 835 Appendix D, report contaminations
     exceeding 10,000 dpm/100cm2.

     (2) Any occurrence requiring offsite medical assistance for
     contaminated personnel.

     (3) Identification of personnel or clothing contamination offsite
     due to DOE operations in accordance with approved radiological
     procedures for determining personnel and/or clothing contamination,
     measured (prior to washing or decontamination) in accordance with
     the Radiological Control Manual, Article 338, or equivalent.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any measurement of personnel or clothing contamination
     (excluding protective clothing) at a level greater than the total
     contamination limits identified in 10 CFR 835, Occupational
     Radiation Protection, Appendix D, measured (prior to washing or
     decontamination) in accordance with the DOE Radiological Control
     Manual Article 338, or equivalent. The contamination level shall be
     based on direct measurement and not averaged over any area. For
     tritium, until a total contamination value is specified by 10 CFR
     835 Appendix D, report contaminations at a level greater than 10,000
     dpm/100cm2.

   Group 5 - Safeguards and Security
     * 5A Criminal Acts
     * 5B Unaccounted for Classified Matter or Compromised Information
     * 5C Substance Abuse
     * 5D Intelligence Activities
     * 5E Physical Security System Computer
     * 5F Unplanned/Unscheduled Outage of Site Security System
     * 5G Demonstrations/Protests
     * 5H Firearms
     * 5I Other Security Concerns
     * 5J Material Control and Accountability

   Occurrences in this group will require careful review for classified
   and Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, in addition to careful
   review for privacy considerations. Classified information will be
   transmitted only through approved communications channels and should be
   held to the absolute minimum. The lack of detail that may be required
   in such reports is recognized by DOE management. For the purpose of
   this group of reportable occurrences, the term "onsite" applies to all
   facilities, installations, and real property subject to the
   jurisdiction or administration of the DOE or in its custody and posted
   with notices of prohibitions and penalties.

   A. Criminal Acts

     Initial notification of events in this section shall follow normal
     occurrence reporting timelines. When reporting an occurrence that is
     the subject of an ongoing investigation under this subgroup, the
     report shall be tailored to prevent jeopardizing the investigation.
     Full reporting may be delayed until completion of criminal
     investigations, if the reports would jeopardize the investigation.

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) At DOE reactor or nonreactor nuclear facilities:

     (a) bomb-related incidents, including location of a suspicious
     device or a noncredible bomb threat;

     (b) a noncredible terrorist threat; or

     (c) a noncredible sabotage threat or breach/attempted breach of a
     secure/classified facility.

     (2) Violent assault/battery, murder, or unjustified use of deadly
     force while on DOE property.

     (3) Theft/diversion/intentional destruction of Government property
     valued greater than $1,000,000.

     (4) Racketeering or other organized criminal activity onsite.

     Off-Normal

     (1) At DOE facilities other than reactors and nonreactor nuclear
     facilities:

     (a) location of a suspicious device or noncredible bomb threat;

     (b) noncredible terrorist threat; or

     (c) noncredible sabotage threat.

     (2) Theft/diversion/intentional destruction of government property
     valued between $10,000 and $1,000,000.

     (3) Onsite felony conspiracies (i.e., blackmail, fraud,
     embezzlement, extortion and forgery) not involving classified
     information.

   B. Unaccounted for Classified Matter or Compromised Information

     Unusual Occurrence

     The loss, potential compromise, or unauthorized disclosure
     (determined in accordance with DOE M 471.2-1), in any manner, of
     information classified as, or which should have properly been
     classified as, Top Secret (all categories) and Secret (all
     categories), and/or all documents regardless of classification level
     and category containing Sensitive Compartmented Information, Special
     Access Program information, and/or classified information of another
     government agency or foreign government.

     Off-Normal

     The loss, potential compromise, or unauthorized disclosure
     (determined in accordance with DOE M 471.2-1), in any manner, of
     information classified as, or which should have properly been
     classified as, Confidential (all categories), but not including
     Confidential documents containing Sensitive Compartmented
     Information, Special Access Program information, and/or classified
     information of another government agency or foreign government.

   C. Substance Abuse

     Off-Normal

     Discovery of the prohibited use, possession or involvement of
     alcohol or illegal drugs by personnel within a facility that may
     affect facility operations.

     (1) Any reportable occurrence under this Manual at least partially
     attributable to the use of alcohol or illegal drugs.

     (2) A detection of personnel not fit for duty attributable to the
     use of alcohol or illegal drugs.

   D. Intelligence Activities

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Extortion/blackmail directed at DOE or DOE contractor personnel
     with intent of obtaining classified information/systems, detailed
     information concerning plant processes/configurations, or aiding in
     sabotage or terrorist acts.

     (2) Espionage, intelligence activities, treason, or subversive
     activities by or directed at DOE or DOE contractor personnel.

     Off-Normal

     (1) When illegal or unauthorized access is sought to classified or
     sensitive information, technology, or special nuclear materials.

     (2) When DOE or DOE contractor personnel believe that they may be
     the target of an attempted exploitation by an inimical interest,
     foreign or domestic.

   E. Physical Security System Computer

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Actual/attempted unauthorized access to classified or sensitive
     unclassified information.

     (2) Discovery of a computer incident (virus, hacker, sniffer, abuse,
     fraud, etc.) involving a physical security system that causes an
     alteration to a security feature, disruption of service, or loss of
     the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information, and
     results in an estimated $1,000,000 or more in damages or the cost of
     restoring services.

     Off-Normal

     Discovery of a computer incident (virus, hacker, sniffer, abuse,
     fraud, etc.) involving a physical security system that causes an
     alteration to a security feature, disruption of service, or loss of
     the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information, and
     results in an estimated $10,000 or more in damages or the cost of
     restoring services.

   F. Unplanned/Unscheduled Outage of Site Security System

     Unusual Occurrence

     Unplanned/unscheduled outage of any site security system, or major
     component of a site security system, that is not redundant and/or
     results in a potential vulnerability which would allow unauthorized
     or undetected access to Protected Areas, Exclusion Areas, Material
     Access Areas, and Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities.

     Off-Normal

     Unplanned/unscheduled outage of any site security system, or major
     component of a site security system, not encompassed by the Unusual
     Occurrence category, that is not redundant and not authorized by a
     facility shutdown plan or a special security plan approved by DOE,
     that requires the physical presence of the protective force as a
     compensatory measure to prevent unauthorized access. This does not
     include the stationing of protective forces as a backup security
     system identified in a DOE approved facility security plan.

   G. Demonstrations/Protests

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Disruptive activities impeding vehicular or employees
     access/egress.

     (2) Attempted or actual trespass.

     (3) Malevolent activities causing property damage or bodily harm.

     Off-Normal

     Lawful activities warranting deployment of additional protective
     measures.

   H. Firearms

     Unusual Occurrence

     Unauthorized firearms discharge resulting in personnel injury.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Unauthorized firearms discharge resulting in no personnel
     injury.

     (2) Loss or theft of DOE firearms or munitions, as per DOE 5632.7A,
     PROTECTIVE FORCE PROGRAMS. Site specific procedures shall include
     current amounts identified in DOE 5632.7A. (Excess of 100 rounds as
     per 5632.7A, Chapter VI, Section 1, paragraph b.(4)(c) "Inventory
     Shortages")

   I. Other Security Concerns

     Unusual Occurrence

     Unauthorized use, possession, or alteration of a security badge,
     credential, shield, or other form of official identification (to
     include blank badge stock/form) to gain access to a protected area
     or limited area.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Discovery of prohibited items within a Protected Area that:

     (a) are suspected of being positioned for the purpose of aiding and
     abetting a malevolent act; or

     (b) are, of themselves, illegal.

     Items discovered outside controlled areas that are legal under
     Federal, State, and local laws are not reportable, even if the
     discovery of such items would otherwise be reportable under this
     paragraph.

     (2) Onsite death of cleared DOE or DOE contractor personnel by
     unnatural causes (e.g., suicide, drug overdose).

     (3) Loss of security badges in excess of 5 percent in a calendar
     year.

     (4) Onsite malicious mischief, disorderly conduct, or vandalism
     which disrupts plant activity or causes damage between $10,000 and
     $100,000.

   J. Material Control and Accountability

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Loss or apparent loss of the following (including item losses
     due to shipper-receiver differences):

     (a) one or more items for which the items total a Category I, II, or
     III quantity of special nuclear materials, or

     (b) one or more items of tritium in a weapons or test component, or

     (c) one or more items which total 50 grams or more of tritium.

     (2) An inventory difference (loss or gain) that exceeds alarm
     limits, does not involve the loss of an item, and is a Category I or
     II quantity of special nuclear materials.

     (3) A shipper-receiver difference involving a gain in the number of
     items for which the items total to a Category I or II quantity of
     special nuclear materials.

     (4) Evidence that special nuclear material balance or tritium
     material balance data has been manipulated or falsified to mask a
     diversion or theft or to alter loss detection sensitivity.

     (5) Alarms or other indicators, excluding inventory differences or
     shipper-receiver differences, from loss detection elements for
     Category I and II material balance areas that cannot be proven to be
     false within 24 hours.

     (6) Loss or apparent loss whenever a State, local government or
     other Federal agency must be notified.

     Off-Normal

     (1) Alarms or other indicators, excluding inventory differences or
     shipper-receiver differences, from loss detection elements for
     Category III and IV material balance areas that cannot be proven to
     be false within 24 hours.

     (2) A special nuclear materials or tritium inventory difference
     (loss or gain) that exceeds the alarm limits, does not involve the
     loss of an item, and is a Category III or IV quantity of material.

     (3) A shipper-receiver difference that exceeds 200 grams of fissile
     material and the combined limit of error for the shipment.

     (4) A special nuclear materials or tritium shipper-receiver
     difference involving a gain in the number of items for which the
     items total a Category III or IV quantity of material.

     (5) Any unexpected accumulation of fissile material within primary
     confinement boundaries.

     (6) A statistically significant trend in total inventory difference
     for special nuclear materials or tritium inventories.

     (7) Loss or apparent loss of one or more items for which the items
     total a Category IV quantity of special nuclear materials or any
     loss of one or more containers of tritium that does not meet the
     threshold for an Unusual Occurrence (includes item losses due to
     shipper-receiver differences).

   Group 6 - Transportation

   Transportation of DOE Hazardous Materials.  Transportation occurrences
   are incidents related to the transportation of DOE materials, including
   hazardous materials, hazardous substances, and hazardous wastes by
   vehicular, vessel, air, or rail mode. The requirements for reporting
   noncompliances and violations associated with such transfers are
   qualified in this Manual. The Federal regulations for offsite
   transportation are found in 10 CFR Part 71, 49 CFR Parts 106-180,
   200-250, and 350-399, 46 CFR (vessel), ICAO/IATA, IMDG, 14
   CFR(aviation), and several DOE Orders. For onsite (within controlled
   boundaries of DOE facilities), the transportation regulations for
   hazardous materials transfers are the same as offsite (DOT's Hazardous
   Materials Regulations) or as defined in an approved facility
   Transportation Safety Document.

   DOE facilities receiving materials from a DOE shipper that are not in
   compliance with appropriate regulations, as qualified by this Manual,
   must report the discrepancies to the DOE shipper who will prepare an
   Occurrence Report and implement suitable corrective actions. If such a
   shipment is received from a non-DOE shipper and meets the reporting
   criteria of this Manual, the DOE organization will notify the non-DOE
   shipper of the apparent noncompliance and will prepare an Occurrence
   Report stating that the non-DOE shipper has been notified. These
   reporting criteria are in addition to any required by DOT for
   contractors subject to the DOT regulations.

     Unusual Occurrence

     (1) Any packaging or transportation activity (including loading,
     unloading, or temporary storage) involving the offsite release of
     radioactive material, etiologic agents, a reportable quantity of
     hazardous substance, or marine pollutants.

     (2) Any shipment of radioactive material that arrives at its
     destination with radiation or contamination levels greater than DOT
     limits, or results in personnel radiation exposure higher than
     permitted in Federal permits, Federal regulations, or DOE standards.

     (3) Any shipment or onsite transfer of radioactive material or
     hazardous waste that arrives at its destination with an unaccounted
     for package or an irreconcilable shipping paper, waste manifest, or
     onsite transfer authorization.

     (4) A vehicle, vessel, rail or air incident or accident (without
     personal injury) that presents significant impact on the ability of
     a facility to conduct transportation operations and:

     (a) results in release of radioactive or hazardous materials above
     Federal permit, Federal regulatory, or DOE Standard limits;

     (b) involves performance degradation of safety equipment; or

     (c) is the result of failure or degradation of administrative
     controls required to ensure safety.

     (5) Violations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations or
     the Hazardous Materials Regulations if those violations are
     determined by DOT inspection and result in a fine (monetary
     penalty).

     Off-Normal

     (1) Any packaging or transportation activity involving:

     (a) the offsite release of non-radioactive hazardous material, or
     any quantity of hazardous waste; or

     (b) the onsite release of radioactive materials, etiologic agents,
     hazardous substances, hazardous waste, or marine pollutants.

     (2) A vehicle, vessel, rail or air incident or accident (without
     personal injury) that affects the ability of a facility to conduct
     transportation operations and:

     (a) results in release of radioactive or hazardous materials below
     limits established by Federal permits, Federal regulations, or DOE
     Standard limits but must be reported to State or local agencies; or

     (b) is the result of operational procedural violations, including
     maintenance or administrative procedures.

     (3) Noncompliances (potential violations) of the DOT Hazardous
     Materials Regulations or the transportation and packaging
     requirements of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission involving:

     (a) errors made by the shipper in materials description, marking,
     labeling, or placarding;

     (b) an unqualified person signing shipping papers;

     (c) the highway routing selection requirements for highway route
     controlled shipments or the notification requirements for spent-fuel
     shipments not being observed;

     (d) the separation and segregation tables for hazardous materials
     not strictly adhered to; or

     (e) the applicable packaging requirements for the assembly,
     handling, or selection of a package not being in accordance with the
     applicable regulations.

     (4) Noncompliances (potential violations) of the Federal Motor
     Carrier Safety Regulations involving:

     (a) a contractor driver operating a DOE-owned motor vehicle after a
     positive drug test or failure of an alcohol test;

     (b) an unqualified driver operating a vehicle (medical, driver's
     license, or training not in compliance);

     (c) the carrier (contractor management) not having required
     insurance;

     (d) a vehicle that failed inspection not being removed from service;

     (e) a specification cargo tank with expired inspection being in
     service with hazardous materials;

     (f) a driver's log book deliberately misrepresented; or

     (g) the carrier (contractor management) failing to perform random or
     periodic drug or substance-abuse testing.

     (5) Any violation of the Hazardous Material Regulations or Federal
     Motor Carrier Safety Regulations if that violation is determined by
     DOT inspection and does not result in a penalty.

   Group 7 - Value Basis Reporting
     * 7A Cost Based Occurrences
     * 7B Defective Item, Material, or Service

   Value basis reporting includes items based on cost or the
   identification of defective items, materials, or services.  A defective
   item, material, or service (see definition) shall be identified and
   reported to allow the initiation of a Headquarters investigation and
   make all Departmental Elements aware of the defect and initiate actions
   to eliminate common mode failures due to substandard, counterfeit,
   misrepresentation, or fraudulent practices of suppliers.

   A. Cost Based Occurrences

     Any occurrence specifying cost as a basis for reporting, unless
     otherwise stated, will be classified by the following monetary
     values necessary to repair, replace, or otherwise restore a
     facility/system/component to acceptable operation. Costs used for
     reporting should be reasonable initial estimates.

     Unusual Occurrence

     Estimated loss or damage to DOE or other property amounting to
     $1,000,000 or more, or estimated costs of $1,000,000 or more
     required for cleaning (including decontamination), renovating,
     replacing, or rehabilitating structures, equipment, or property.

     Off-Normal

     Estimated loss or damage to DOE or other property amounting to
     between $10,000 and $1,000,000 (for vehicle/aircraft the lower limit
     is $5,000 or, for insurance purposes, considered a total loss) or
     estimated costs within these limits required for cleaning (including
     decontamination), renovating, replacing or rehabilitating
     structures, equipment, or property.

   B. Defective Item, Material, or Service

     Off-Normal

     (1) Discovery of any actual or potential defective item, material,
     or service, including any suspect/ counterfeit items (S/CIs), or
     substandard product, in any application whose failure could result
     in a substantial safety hazard. Reporting of S/CIs in this category
     is required regardless of where they are located
     (receiving/inspection areas, storage areas, fabrication/maintenance
     areas, installed, etc.), when they are found (before, during or
     after receipt), or their operating status (operating or out of
     service). Examples include the identification of suspect,
     counterfeit or substandard products found in:

     (a) cranes, elevators, and fork lifts - items used in the critical
     load bearing path of such handling and lifting equipment;

     (b) aircraft - items used in engines or to attach engines, wings,
     tails, or landing gear;

     (c) vehicles - items used in engines, brakes or steering mechanisms;

     (d) critical components used in personnel safety equipment; and

     (e) facilities -

     1. items used to contain:

     a. radioactive fluids

     b. high temperature or pressure steam or fluids, or

     c. other hazardous material

     2. Safety Class SSC or Safety Significant SSC supporting the safe
     operation or shutdown of a facility, system, or process that could
     result in a performance degradation.

     Guidance in the identification and follow-up actions are contained
     in DOE Quality Alerts or other bulletins.

     (2) Discovery of any actual or potential defective item (A potential
     defective item, material or service can be described as any item or
     service that does not or cannot meet its intended use.), material,
     or service, including any suspect/counterfeit items (S/CIs), or
     substandard product, in any application whose failure could not
     result in a substantial safety hazard.  Reporting of S/CIs in this
     category is required regardless of where they are located
     (receiving/inspection areas, storage areas, fabrication/maintenance
     areas, installed, etc.), when they are found (before, during or
     after receipt), or their operating status (operating or out of
     service). This does not include office supplies, equipment, or
     household products.  (See letter, Gordon to Sack dated 7/20/2000 and
     associated reference letter, Grahn to Gordon dated 4/10/98.)

   Group 8 - Facility Status
     * 8A Facility/Process/Activity Unscheduled Shutdown
     * 8B Existing Facility/Process/Activity Shutdown Extension
     * 8C New Facility/Process/Activity Start-up Delay

   This section involves the change of facility status that may affect the
   performance goals of a facility. The potential inability to meet
   performance goals may significantly affect other major and minor
   facilities throughout the complex. Performance goals are operating
   objectives necessary to accomplish an approved facility, process, or
   activity mission on a periodic basis. The duration of the goal may be
   short or long term, but should not exceed the goals of the annual
   operating plan.

   A. Facility/Process/Activity Unscheduled Shutdown

     Off-Normal

     Any unscheduled shutdown of a facility, process,
