http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1494/0.pdf

   IN THE United States Court of Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   CIRCUIT Nos. 00-5212, 5213 MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant,
   v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and STATE OF NEW YORK, et al.,
   Plaintiffs-Appellees. ON APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA APPELLANT MICROSOFT CORPORATION'S MOTION
   FOR AN ORDER GOVERNING FURTHER PROCEEDINGS Pursuant to this Court's
   Order of September 26, 2000, appellant Microsoft Corporation
   ("Microsoft") respectfully requests that the Court enter an order (1)
   allowing each side to file principal briefs of not more than 56,000
   words and Microsoft to file a reply of not more than 28,000 words, (2)
   giving each side 60 days to file its principal briefs and Microsoft 30
   days to file its reply brief, (3) permitting the parties to use the
   deferred appendix option, and (4) allowing 90 minutes or more per side
   for oral argument as the Court deems appropriate. Microsoft believes
   that such an order will give the parties a fair opportuni- ty to
   present their arguments on the many factual and legal issues presented
   by this appeal and permit the Court to consider those issues fully and
   expeditiously. Microsoft has conferred with appellees about these four
   proposals, and appellees have stated that they agree only to the use of
   the deferred appendix option in this case.1 1. Format of Briefs.
   Parties normally are allotted 14,000 words for principal briefs and
   7,000 words for reply briefs. FED. R. APP. P. 32(a)(7). Those word
   limits are insufficient for a case of this magnitude and complexity, in
   which Microsoft's very corporate survival is at issue.2 The scope of
   this case is monumental. The district court's decision is set out in
   three different published opinions that occupy 148 pages of the Federal
   Supple- ment. United States v. Microsoft Corp., 97 F. Supp. 2d 59,
   59-74 (D.D.C. 2000) (final judgment); United States v. Microsoft Corp.,
   87 F. Supp. 2d 30, 30-57 (D.D.C. 2000) (conclusions of law); United
   States v. Microsoft Corp., 84 F. Supp. 2d 9, 9-112 (D.D.C. 1999)
   (findings of fact). Moreover, appellees' and Microsoft's revised
   proposed findings of fact in the district court were 876 and 679 pages,
   respectively, and the parties' pro- posed conclusions of law-which did
   not address any of the issues relating to relief (as those issues were
   left for a later phase of the trial) or any of the issues relating to
   the district court's many extrajudicial discussions with the press
   later published by numerous news organizations-were 70 pages each.
   Finally, Microsoft's "summary response" to the relief ultimately
   entered by the district court and the company's memorandum in 1 Given
   the voluminous record, Microsoft also requests that the parties be
   permitted to file additional copies of their briefs on CD-ROM with
   hyperlinks to all factual and legal authority cited in the briefs as a
   convenience to the Court. Appellees join in this request as well. 2
   Microsoft does not believe it necessary to extend the word limits
   applicable to briefs of amici curiae. See FED. R. APP. P. 29(d).
   Microsoft also suggests that amici for each side be re- quired to file
   a joint brief absent a strong showing of cause for separate briefs,
   which, if allowed, should be no more than 7,000 words. See Circuit Rule
   29(d) ("Amici curiae on the same side must join in a single brief to
   the extent practicable."). - 2 - support of its motion for summary
   rejection of plaintiffs' breakup proposal were 62 and 25 pages,
   respectively. As explained in Microsoft's motion for a stay of the
   judgment pending appeal, filed in this Court on June 13, 2000, the
   district court's decision was infected by a multitude of serious
   substantive and procedural errors. In fact, in one of his many public
   comments about the case, the district judge candidly conceded at a
   September 28, 2000 antitrust conference in Washington, D.C., "Virtually
   everything I did may be vulnerable on appeal." Greg Store, Microsoft
   Judge Blames Company "Intransigence" for Breakup, BLOOMBERG, Sept. 29,
   2000; see also James V. Grimaldi, Microsoft Judge Says Ruling at Risk,
   WASH. POST, Sept. 29, 2000, at E1. The district court's many errors
   compel Microsoft to address a wide range of legal and factual issues on
   appeal. Microsoft also will have to devote considerable attention to
   the relief entered below, which is truly radical. Besides ordering that
   the company be broken in two, the district court imposed draconian
   "conduct" relief that extends far beyond the case that was tried and
   that implicates a large number of techno- logically complicated
   subjects. Included among that "conduct" relief is a requirement that
   Microsoft disclose the internal workings of its copyrighted operating
   systems to its direct competitors. Appendix A hereto sets forth the
   principal legal issues Microsoft intends to raise on appeal, as stated
   at pages 21-23 of its Jurisdictional Statement filed with the Supreme
   Court in Microsoft Corp. v. United States, No. 00-139. In addition to
   those legal issues, Microsoft will challenge a number of the district
   court's factual findings as clearly erroneous. Although Microsoft will
   be as succinct as possible, the issues - 3 - presented by this
   appeal-all of which need to be resolved-require extended briefing.
   Microsoft thus requests that each side be granted 56,000 words for its
   principal brief and that Microsoft be granted 28,000 words for its
   reply brief.3 Such expanded word limits are also appropriate in view of
   what this Court has recognized as "the exceptional impor- tance of
   these cases." Order, dated June 13, 2000; see also Microsoft Corp. v.
   United States, No. 00-139 (U.S. Sept. 26, 2000) (Breyer, J.,
   dissenting) (referring to need for "additional briefs" and "additional
   time for oral argument"). In large antitrust cases less complicated
   than this one, parties have fre- quently filed appellate briefs of
   comparable or greater length. For example, in Brown Shoe Co. v. United
   States, 370 U.S. 294 (1962), the defendant's brief was 211 pages, and
   the government's brief was 139 pages. Similarly, in United States v.
   United States Gypsum Co., 333 U.S. 364 (1948), the defendant's brief
   was 184 pages, and the govern- ment's brief was 290 pages. And in
   United States v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U.S. 563 (1966), one defendant's
   brief was 189 pages, and the government's brief was 118 pages. More
   recently, in Berkey Photo, Inc. v. Eastman Kodak Co., 603 F.2d 263 (2d
   Cir. 1979), the Second Circuit permitted the parties to file principal
   briefs of 150 pages, a reply and answering brief of 65 pages and
   post-argument supplemental briefs of 30 pages. None of those cases
   involved issues as numerous and technically complex as those raised by
   the district court's rulings on liability and relief. 3 Because these
   appeals are consolidated, appellees (who assert nearly identical
   claims) should allocate their 56,000 words among themselves as they see
   fit. This Court's Practice Handbook provides that joint briefs are
   encouraged in consolidated cases pursuant to FRAP 28(i). D.C. Circuit
   Handbook of Practice and Internal Procedures 23 (1997). Microsoft has
   no objec- tion to appellees' filing separate briefs so long as their
   combined length is no greater than that allowed for Microsoft's
   principal brief. - 4 - This Court also has recently permitted parties
   to file briefs well in excess of 14,000 words where, as here, the scope
   of the case warranted it. E.g., Michigan v. Envtl. Prot. Agency, 1999
   WL 229221, at *3 (D.C. Cir. Mar. 19, 1999) (permitting EPA to file
   principal brief not to exceed 38,500 words); Transmission Access Policy
   Study Group v. Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm'n, 1998 WL 633827, at *1
   (D.C. Cir. Aug. 13, 1998) (permitting FERC to file principal brief not
   to exceed 62,500 words); Am. Trucking Ass'n v. Envtl. Prot. Agency,
   1998 WL 65651, at *1 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 21, 1998) (permitting EPA to file
   principal brief not to exceed 41,250 words). 2. Briefing Schedule.
   Given the number of issues presented, the inherent complexity of the
   subject matters at issue and the size of the record, Microsoft requests
   that each side be given 60 days to prepare its principal brief and that
   Microsoft be given 30 days to prepare its reply brief. Entering such a
   briefing schedule will give the parties the time necessary to address
   the extensive record and to brief the many factual and legal issues
   raised by the district court's rulings on liability and relief. 3.
   Deferred Appendix. Because of the extensive trial record in this case,
   the parties should be permitted to use the deferred appendix option.
   See Circuit Rule 30(c). That approach will permit the parties to
   include in the appendix only those documents actually cited in their
   briefs, thus minimizing, to the extent possible, the size of the
   appendix and ensuring that it will not include a large number of
   exhibits that do not bear directly on the outcome of the appeals.
   Appellees agree that use of the deferred appendix option is appropriate
   in this case. 4. Oral Argument. Microsoft respectfully suggests that
   the Court allow 90 minutes or more per side for oral argument, as the
   Court deems appropriate after - 5 - review of the briefs. Microsoft
   also suggests that after reviewing the briefs, the Court consider (i)
   requesting short supplemental briefs (either pre- or post-argument) to
   address specific issues on which the Court would like additional
   argument, and (ii) advising the parties of specific issues on which the
   Court would like the parties to focus their oral argument. * * *
   Microsoft respectfully requests that the Court enter an order governing
   further proceedings as proposed herein. For the Court's convenience, a
   proposed form of order is attached hereto as Appendix B. Respectfully
   submitted, ______________________________ William H. Neukom John L.
   Warden Thomas W. Burt Richard J. Urowsky David A. Heiner, Jr. Steven L.
   Holley MICROSOFT CORPORATION Richard C. Pepperman, II One Microsoft Way
   SULLIVAN & CROMWELL Redmond, Washington 98052 125 Broad Street (425)
   936-8080 New York, New York 10004 (212) 558-4000 Counsel for
   Defendant-Appellant October 2, 2000 Microsoft Corporation - 6 -
   APPENDIX A Whether the district court erred in holding that the
   relevant product market is limited to "PC operating systems," thereby
   excluding the principal competitive threats to Windows. Whether the
   district court erred in holding that the need to persuade software
   developers to write applications for a platform constitutes a barrier
   to entry into the relevant product market. Whether the district court
   erred in holding that Microsoft possesses monopoly power in a relevant
   product market. Whether the district court erred in holding that
   Microsoft maintained a monopoly through anticompetitive conduct by
   seeking to maximize Internet Explorer's usage share at Navigator's
   expense. Whether the district court erred in holding that plaintiffs
   need not establish a causal connection between the alleged
   anticompetitive conduct and Microsoft's supposed maintenance of a
   monopoly. Whether the district court erred in holding that acts that
   are not themselves anticompe- titive under controlling legal principles
   can become anticompetitive when viewed in combination with other acts.
   Whether the district court erred in holding that Microsoft's
   development of new operating systems that include Web browsing
   functionality constituted an unlawful tie. Whether the district court
   erred in holding that Internet Explorer is unlawfully tied to Windows
   when Navigator runs perfectly well on that operating system and tens of
   millions of people use Navigator with Windows. Whether the district
   court erred in holding that agreements that did not violate Section 1
   of the Sherman Act because they did not foreclose Netscape's access to
   consumers nevertheless violated Section 2. Whether the district court
   erred in holding that provisions in Microsoft's license agreements with
   OEMs that, consistent with Microsoft's rights under federal copyright
   law, do not permit OEMs to modify Microsoft's copyrighted operating
   systems without Microsoft's permission violate Section 2 of the Sherman
   Act. Whether the district court erred in holding that Microsoft
   possessed a specific intent to monopolize the alleged market for "Web
   browsers" when the district court found that Microsoft's intent was to
   prevent Netscape from achieving such a monopoly. Whether the district
   court erred in holding that there is a dangerous probability that
   Microsoft will achieve monopoly power in the alleged market for "Web
   browsers" when the district court found that over one-third of Internet
   Explorer's usage share is controlled by AOL, which now owns Navigator.
   Whether the district court erred in holding that Microsoft's June 1995
   discussions with Netscape created a dangerous probability of
   monopolization of the alleged market for "Web browsers" when it is
   undisputed that Netscape rejected whatever proposal Microsoft
   supposedly made. Whether the district court erred in dismissing
   Microsoft's counterclaims against the State attorneys general for
   seeking, under color of state law, to deprive Microsoft of its rights
   under federal copyright law. Whether the district court erred in
   entering a sweeping permanent injunction without an evidentiary hearing
   on relief. Whether the district court erred in imposing extreme and
   punitive relief unrelated to the antitrust violations found. Whether
   the district court's extrajudicial communications with the press
   concerning the merits of these cases in violation of Canon 3A(6) of the
   Code of Conduct for United States Judges require that the judgment
   below be reversed and, if the cases are remanded, that they be assigned
   to another district judge. - 2 - Whether the district court erred in
   starting trial five months after the complaints were filed despite
   allowing plaintiffs to broaden their case dramatically. Whether the
   district court erred in admitting large amounts of inadmissible hearsay
   over Microsoft's objection. - 3 - APPENDIX B United States Court of
   Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT ___________ No. 00-5212
   United States of America, Appellee, v. Microsoft Corporation,
   Appellant, ________ 00-5213 State of New York, ex rel, et al,
   Appellees, v. Microsoft Corporation, Appellant. BEFORE: Edwards, Chief
   Judge; Williams, Ginsburg, Sentelle, Randolph, Rogers, and Tatel,
   Circuit Judges [PROPOSED] ORDER Upon consideration of appellant's
   motion for an order governing further proceed- ings, appellees'
   response thereto, and reply, it is ORDERED that appellant's brief not
   exceed 56,000 words and be filed within 60 days of this order. It is
   FURTHER ORDERED that appellees' brief or briefs together not exceed
   56,000 words and be filed within 60 days thereafter. It is FURTHER
   ORDERED that appellant's reply brief not exceed 28,000 words and be
   filed within 30 days thereafter. It is FURTHER ORDERED that the parties
   use the deferred appendix option described at FRAP 30(c). It is FURTHER
   ORDERED that the appendix be filed 10 days after the reply brief is
   served. It is FURTHER ORDERED that copies of the briefs containing
   references to the pages of the appendix be filed within 10 days after
   the appendix is filed. It is FURTHER ORDERED that the parties may file
   additional copies of their briefs on CD-ROM. It is FURTHER ORDERED that
   briefs of amici curiae be no longer than 7,000 words. It is FURTHER
   ORDERED that amici on the same side are strongly encouraged to join in
   a single brief. Applications for separate briefs will be granted only
   upon a compelling showing of good cause. The Court will issue separate
   orders concerning oral argument and, if warranted, supplemental briefs
   at the appropriate time. Per Curiam FOR THE COURT: Mark J. Langer,
   Clerk BY: Deputy Clerk, L.D. - 2 - CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE I hereby
   certify that on this 2nd day of October, 2000, I caused a true and
   correct copy of the foregoing Appellant Microsoft Corporation's Motion
   for an Order Governing Further Proceedings to be served by facsimile
   and by hand upon: Phillip R. Malone, Esq. Catherine G. O'Sullivan, Esq.
   Antitrust Division Chief, Appellate Section U.S. Department of Justice
   U.S. Department of Justice 325 Seventh Street, N.W. Antitrust Division
   Suite 615 601 D Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Room 10536 Fax:
   (415) 436-6687 Washington, D.C. 20530 Fax: (202) 514-0536 And by
   facsimile and by overnight courier upon: Richard L. Schwartz, Esq.
   Deputy Chief, Antitrust Bureau New York State Attorney General's Office
   120 Broadway, Suite 2601 New York, New York 10271 Fax: (212) 416-6015
   Kevin J. O'Connor, Esq. Office of the Attorney General of Wisconsin
   P.O. Box 7857 123 West Washington Avenue Madison, Wisconsin 53703-7957
   Fax: (608) 267-2223 Christine Rosso, Esq. Chief, Antitrust Bureau
   Illinois Attorney General's Office 100 West Randolph Street, 13th Floor
   Chicago, Illinois 60601 Fax: (312) 814-2549 ______________________
   Bradley P. Smith
