http://feinstein.senate.gov/antrhx1.htm

                                [header3.gif]

    WHAT TO DO IF YOU RECEIVE AN ENVELOPE OR PACKAGE SUSPECTED TO CONTAIN
                     ANTHRAX OR OTHER BIOLOGICAL AGENTS

   DO NOT PANIC

   1. Anthrax organisms can cause skin infection, gastrointestinal
   infection or pulmonary infection. To do so the organism must be rubbed
   into abraded skin, swallowed, or inhaled as a fine, aerosolized mist.
   It does not leap into one's body. All forms of disease are generally
   treatable with antibiotics.

   2. For anthrax to be effective as a covert agent it must be aerosolized
   into particles between 0.4 and 2/10,000ths of and inch, smaller than a
   red blood cell. This is difficult to do, and requires a great deal of
   technical skill and special equipment. If these small particles are
   inhaled,life-threatening lung infection can occur, but prompt
   recognition and treatment are effective.

   3. Anthrax is not communicable. It cannot be transferred from one
   person to another.

   If you receive an unopened letter or letter that appears empty:

   1. Place envelope in a plastic bag or glassine envelope

   2. Wash hands with SOAP and WATER.

   3. NOTIFY the FBI, State police, and your supervisor.

   If you receive an envelope with powder and powder spills out onto
   surface:

   1. DO NOT clean powder up. Keep others away.

   2. WASH hands with soap and water.

   3. DO NOT brush off your clothes.

   4. NOTIFY the FBI, state police, and your supervisor.

   5. REMOVE clothing and place in plastic bag, as soon as possible.

   6. SHOWER with SOAP and WATER. DO NOT use bleach or other disinfectant

   7. PUT on fresh clothing.

   8. MAKE list of all people who had contact with the powder and give to
   local public health authorities. They may be instructed to watch for
   fever or other symptoms over the next couple of days.

   If you receive a package marked with a threatening message:

   1. DO NOT OPEN.

   2. LEAVE it and EVACUATE the room.

   3. KEEP others from entering.

   4. NOTIFY the FBI, State police, and your supervisor.

   If there is aerosolization or a small explosion:

   1. TURN OFF local fans or ventilations units in the area.

   2. LEAVE room immediately.

   3. CLOSE the door, or section off the area to prevent others from
   entering.

   4. NOTIFY the FBI, State police, and your supervisor.

   5. REMAIN on premises until responders arrive.

   6. SHUT DOWN air handling system in the building, if possible.

   6. MAKE list of all people who were in the building at the time and
   give to local public health authorities. They may be instructed to
   watch for fever or other symptoms over the next couple of days.

   How to identify suspicious packages and letters:

   Excessive postage

   Handwritten or poorly typed addresses

   Incorrect titles

   Title, but no name

   Mispellings of common words

   Oily stains, discolorations or odor

   No return address
