http://www.sgc.wa.gov/historical.htm


   [quickfind.gif]

   [greendot.gif]
   Sentencing Reform Act: Historical Background
   [greendot.gif]
   Powers & Duties of The Commission
   [greendot.gif]
   Commission Members
   [greendot.gif]
   Commission Staff
   [greendot.gif]
   Commission Publications
   [greendot.gif]
   SGC Job Openings
   [greendot.gif]
   Related Websites
                                 [sgc2.gif]

   [redhistbg.gif]



   In 1981, the Washington State Legislature enacted the Sentencing Reform
   Act ("SRA"), which established the Sentencing Guidelines Commission and
   directed it to recommend to the Legislature a determinate sentencing
   system for adult felonies. The principal goal of the new sentencing
   guidelines system was to ensure that offenders who commit similar
   crimes and have similar criminal histories receive equivalent
   sentences. Sentences were to be determined by the seriousness of the
   offense and by the criminal record of the offender.

   The Commission completed the original adult felony sentencing "grid" in
   1982, and the Legislature enacted it into law in 1983. The Sentencing
   Reform Act took effect for crimes committed on and after July 1, 1984.
   Codified in chapter 9.94A RCW, the SRA contains the guidelines and
   procedures used by the courts to impose sentences for adult felonies.
   The Commission continues to advise the Legislature on necessary
   adjustments to the sentencing structure

   Prior to 1984, sentences imposed for adult felonies in Washington were
   indeterminate. Courts had wide discretion over whether or not to impose
   a prison sentence and the length of any sentence. The Board of Prison
   Terms and Paroles then decided when or whether to release an offender
   within the statutory maximum sentence period. Indeterminate sentencing
   is still in effect for more than 750 prison inmates who committed
   crimes before July 1, 1984. The Indeterminate Sentence Review Board
   sets the release dates for those offenders.

   The Legislature has amended the Sentencing Reform Act in almost every
   legislative session, requiring longer periods of confinement for
   violent offenders, sex offenders and drug offenders. Statewide citizen
   initiatives have also resulted in the imposition of longer prison
   terms, including longer sentences for armed crime and also the nation’s
   first "three strikes and you’re out" measure. Where average prison
   terms have increased markedly in length, the state’s prison population
   has more than doubled since 1984.

   In 1996 the Legislature directed the Commission to assume the functions
   of the Juvenile Disposition Standards Commission, serving similar
   functions with regard to juvenile sentencing.

   Goals of the Sentencing Reform Act

   The SRA was enacted to help make the criminal justice system more
   accountable to the public by developing a sentencing system which
   structures or guides, but does not eliminate, the use of judicial
   discretion in sentencing adult felony offenders. The SRA established
   the following goals for felony sentencing (see RCW 9.94A.040):

       1. Ensure that the punishment for a criminal offense is proportionate
          to the seriousness of the offense and the offender’s criminal
          history;
       2. Promote respect for the law by providing punishment which is just;
       3. Ensure that the punishment imposed on any offender is commensurate
          with the punishment imposed on others committing similar offenses;
       4. Protect the public;
       5. Offer the offender an opportunity to improve him or herself;
       6. Make frugal use of the state’s and local governments’ resources;
          and
       7. Reduce the risk of re-offending by offenders in the community.

   The sentencing guidelines system is designed to ensure that offenders
   who commit similar crimes and have similar criminal histories receive
   equivalent sentences. The adult felony sentencing grid is structured so
   that offenses involving greater harm to a victim and to society result
   in greater punishment. The guidelines apply equally to offenders in all
   parts of the state, without discrimination as to any element that does
   not relate to the crime or to the defendant’s previous criminal record.

   Offense Seriousness Level

   The first step in determining what sentence to apply in a particular
   case involves identifying the seriousness level of the offense for
   which the defendant was convicted. Crimes included within each
   seriousness level are listed in RCW 9.94A.320. The sentencing
   guidelines grid displays the seriousness levels for felony offenses on
   its vertical axis.

   Some felonies rarely charged or recently created by the Legislature are
   not included in the table listing crimes by seriousness level or in the
   felony sentencing grid. These are commonly called "unranked" felonies.
   For an offender convicted of an unranked felony, no standard sentence
   range applies. Instead, the sentencing judge may impose a determinate
   sentence that may include not more than one year of confinement,
   community service, legal financial obligations, a fine and/or community
   supervision not to exceed one year. Sentences involving confinement for
   more than one year are considered exceptional sentences and must be
   justified in writing by the court.

   Offender Score

   "Scoring" an offender’s criminal history is the most complex element in
   determining the appropriate sentence to impose. The horizontal axis of
   the felony sentencing grid displays the number of "points" to be
   assigned in a particular case, depending on the offender’s previous
   criminal record.

   The "scoring" of an offender is not merely as simple as counting the
   number of the offender’s previous felony convictions. Adult and
   juvenile offenses in an offender’s history are counted differently, for
   instance, and certain offenses are permitted to "wash out" of an
   offender’s record, as well.

   The Legislature has amended the scoring rules many times, so that
   previous drug offenses and previous sex offenses often count for more
   than one point, depending on the current offense. Previous violent
   offenses are "double scored" and previous "serious violent" offenses
   are "triple scored." Offenses committed while being supervised in the
   community also augment an offender’s score. Multiple current
   convictions also affect the procedure for calculating an offender’s
   criminal history score. When "scoring" a particular case, it is
   essential to refer to the specific provisions that apply to the current
   offense of conviction and to previous offenses.

   Standard Sentence Ranges and Enhancements

   The standard sentence range for an offense can be determined by
   referring to the felony sentencing "grid" and finding the intersection
   of the row identifying the seriousness level of the current offense and
   the column identifying the appropriate number of points in the
   offender’s criminal history score. A judge may impose on the offender a
   determinate sentence that falls within the standard range, or may
   impose an exceptional sentence with a written explanation.

   When substantial and compelling reasons exist, a court may impose a
   sentence that falls outside the presumptive sentence range. In such
   cases, the court is required to provide a written explanation for an
   exceptional sentence, including the aggravating or mitigating factors
   that justify the exceptional sentence. Sentences that depart from the
   standard sentence ranges may be appealed by either the prosecutor or
   the defendant.

   For "anticipatory" offenses (including attempts or conspiracies to
   commit an offense), the standard sentence range amounts to only 75% of
   what the range would be for a completed offense. This sentence
   reduction does not apply to drug offenses.

   The Legislature has added sentence "enhancements" for certain offenses,
   including longer sentences for offenses committed with a firearm or
   another deadly weapon, longer sentences for drug offenses committed in
   a "protected" zone (including schools, school buses, public parks and
   public housing projects) and for drug offenses committed while confined
   in a jail or prison. In addition, offenders convicted of vehicular
   homicide while-under-the-influence face longer sentences if they have
   previous DUI-related convictions in their records.

   Sentence Options and Alternatives

   Sentences of one year or less are served in a county jail, whereas
   sentences of more than one year are served in a state correctional
   facility. For some offenses, a one-third reduction in the prison
   sentence is allowed. This is called "earned release." Offenders
   convicted of the most violent offenses are only allowed a 15 percent
   reduction in their sentence.

   In addition to terms of total confinement, offenders may also be
   eligible for certain alternative sanctions or may be required to
   satisfy additional conditions as part of a sentence. For instance,
   offenders serving jail time are often required to remain under
   community supervision for up to one year. Similarly, many offenders
   serving prison time are required to be supervised in the community
   after their release. Offenders being supervised in the community are
   prohibited to own, use or possess firearms, must report regularly to a
   community corrections officer and are subject to other crime-related
   prohibitions.

   The first-time offender waiver is an alternative available to offenders
   with no felony record and with no record of previous, violent or sex
   offenses or certain drug dealing offenses. With these offenders, a
   judge has broad discretion in imposing a sentence, including
   confinement time, crime-related prohibitions and/or community
   supervision (including education, work, counseling, etc.). For other
   less serious offenders, partial confinement options include work crew,
   work release, home detention and work ethic camp.

   Two other special sentencing options exist under law, one for sex
   offenders and the other for drug offenders. The Special Sex Offender
   Sentencing Alternative (SSOSA) allows for community treatment of sex
   offenders. These offenders must be shown to be amenable to treatment
   and a low risk to community safety. Although not in confinement,
   offenders in the SSOSA program are required to serve lengthy periods of
   supervision in the community.

   The Drug Offender Sentencing Alternative (DOSA) is available to
   non-violent drug offenders with no record of violent or sex offenses or
   of crimes involving deadly weapons, and whose drug offense involved
   only a small amount of drugs. If the judge determines that the
   community and the offender would benefit from the offender
   participating in the program, the judge may impose a shortened period
   of confinement, followed by a period of community supervision, and
   including substance abuse treatment, crime-related prohibitions and
   urinalysis and other testing to monitor compliance.

   In addition to sentences of total confinement, periods of community
   supervision and possible alternatives, a sentencing judge must also
   order restitution when a felony results in injury to a person or in the
   damage to or loss of property. A sentencing judge may also order an
   offender to pay a fine, according to the class and seriousness of the
   offense, and whether the offender is deemed to be indigent. The judge
   is also permitted to impose several legal financial obligations,
   including court costs, attorney’s fees, compensation to victims and
   payment for the cost of incarceration.

   Persistent Offenders – "Three Strikes and You’re Out"

   Initiative 593, which went into effect in December of 1993, established
   the penalty of life in prison without the possibility of release for
   "persistent offenders." Those offenders who commit three "most serious"
   offenses (enumerated in RCW 9.94A.030(23)) are considered "persistent
   offenders." In addition, offenders convicted of two separate sex
   offenses are also considered "persistent offenders" and are subject to
   imprisonment for life without the possibility of release. The 1997
   Legislature broadened the list of offenses that constitute "strikes"
   under the "Two Strikes" provision (see RCW 9.94A.030(27)(b)).


                               Back to Welcome Page
