http://fire.pppl.gov/OTA_TPX_alt.pdf

   The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts
   February 1995 OTA-BP-ETI-141 GPO stock #052-003-01403-3 Recommended
   Citation: U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, The Fusion
   Energy Program: The Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts, OTA-BP-ETI-141
   (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, February 1995). ii
   oreword or over four decades the federal government has supported
   research to develop reactors that harness fusion energy for commercial
   electric power production. However, even the most op- timistic
   proponents of the U.S. Department of Energy's fusion energy program
   note that many scientific, engineering, and economic challenges remain.
   Meeting these challenges suffi- ciently to construct a prototype
   commercial fusion powerplant is expected to require tens of billions of
   dollars in experimental facilities and research over the next several
   decades. This background paper, responding to a request by the House
   Committee on Science, focuses on the following two questions for the
   U.S. fusion energy program. First, what is the role of the Tokamak
   Physics Experiment (TPX), an approximately $700 million fusion reactor
   currently awaiting a con- gressional decision to begin construction?
   This paper examines the history of TPX planning; the an- ticipated
   scientific, engineering, and institutional contributions; and the
   relationship between the TPX and the next major planned tokamak
   facilities, the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor
   (ITER), currently in the design stage, and the DEMO facility planned
   for operation in about three decades, which would be the first fusion
   device to demonstrate production of electricity. Second, what is the
   role of alternatives to the tokamak concept in a broad-based fusion
   energy pro- gram? Over the past several years the program has been
   narrowed substantially to concentrate on the single most successful and
   furthest developed fusion energy concept, the tokamak. This narrowing,
   driven heavily by budgetary reasons, has been decried by many fusion
   researchers as premature given the current elementary state of fusion
   knowledge. This study examines the motives for pursuing alter- nate
   concepts, the steps involved and costs of alternate concept research,
   and the current status of alternate concept research as conducted in
   the U.S. fusion energy program. While the focus of the study is on the
   TPX and alternate concepts, it also provides a history of the overall
   fusion energy program. With this context, the study identifies (but
   does not answer) some un- derlying questions that must be addressed.
   The most pressing of these are: what is the potential role of the
   fusion energy program in meeting long-term energy needs? what level of
   research funding is justi- fied by that role? and what are the most
   reasonable goals and directions for the program under scenar- ios of
   flat or declining budgets? OTA received generous assistance from
   workshop participants, reviewers, and others who offered valuable
   information and comments in the course of this study. To all of them
   goes the gratitude of OTA and the personal thanks of the project staff.
   ROGER C. HERDMAN Director iii orkshop Alan Crane, Chairman Robert
   Hirsch John Perkins Senior Associate Consultant Physicist and Group
   Leader Energy, Transportation, and Lawrence Livermore National
   Infrastructure Program Alan Hoffman Laboratory Office of Technology
   Assessment Aerospace and Energetics Research Building Stewart C. Prager
   Donald Correll University of Washington, Seattle President, University
   Fusion Deputy Program Leader for Association and Professor Inertial
   Confinement Fusion Jack Kaslow Department of Physics Lawrence Livermore
   National Executive Director, Northeast University of Wisconsin-Madison
   Laboratory Region Electric Power Research Institute Paul-Henri Rebut
   David H. Crandall International Thermonuclear Director, Applied Plasma
   Physics William D. Kay Experimental Reactor Division Department of
   Political Sciences Engineering Design Activities Office of Energy
   Research Northeastern University U.S. Department of Energy John
   Sheffield Dale M. Meade Fusion Energy Division N. Anne Davies Deputy
   Director Oak Ridge National Laboratory Associate Director for Fusion
   Princeton University Energy Plasma Physics Laboratory John W. Willis
   Office of Energy Research Director, Confinement Systems U.S. Department
   of Energy David O. Overskei Division Office of Energy Research Stephen
   O. Dean Senior Vice President General Atomics U.S. Department of Energy
   President Fusion Power Associates Note: OTA appreciates and is grateful
   for the valuable assistance and thoughtful critiques provided by the
   workshop participants. The participants do not, however, necessarily
   approve, disapprove, or endorse this report. OTA assumes full
   responsibility for the report and the accuracy of its contents. iv
   roject Staff Peter D. Blair PRINCIPAL STAFF PUBLISHING STAFF Assistant
   Director Robin Roy Mary Lou Higgs Industry, Commerce, and Project
   Director Manager International Security Division Karen Larsen Dorinda
   Edmondson Emilia L. Govan Senior Anaylst Typographer Program Director
   Energy, Transportation, and Infrastructure Program Richard Rowberg
   Susan Hoffmeyer Senior Specialist Graphic Designer Congressional
   Research Service ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF Chip Moore Marsha Fenn Production
   Editor Office Administrator Chris Onrubia Tina Aikens Senior Graphic
   Designer Administrative Secretary Gay Jackson PC Specialist Lillian
   Chapman Division Administrator v eviewers and Contributors Anna Aurilio
   Donald Correll Rush D. Holt U.S. Public Interest Research Lawrence
   Livermore National Princeton Plasma Physics Group Laboratory Laboratory
   Charles Baker David H. Crandall Paul Komor University of California,
   U.S. Department of Energy Office of Technology Assessment San Diego N.
   Anne Davies Grant Logan David E. Baldwin U.S. Department of Energy
   Lawrence Livermore National Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
   Laboratory Stephen O. Dean Fusion Power Associates Bogdan C. Maglich
   Roger Bangerter Advanced Physics Corp. University of California,
   Berkeley James F. Decker U.S. Department of Energy Dale M. Meade
   Richard Brody Princeton Plasma Physics Office of Technology Assessment
   Gerald Epstein Laboratory Office of Technology Assessment Mark Brown
   David O. Overskei Office of Technology Assessment Julie Van Fleet
   General Atomics International Thermonuclear E. Michael Campbell
   Experimental Reactor John Perkins Lawrence Livermore National
   Engineering Design Activities Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
   Laboratory Robert Goldston Valeriy Chuyanov Princeton Plasma Physics
   Stewart Prager International Thermonuclear Laboratory University Fusion
   Association Experimental Reactor University of Wisconsin, Madison
   Engineering Design Activities Robert Hirsch Consultant Paul-Henri Rebut
   Thomas Cochran International Thermonuclear Natural Resources Defense
   Alan Hoffman Experimental Reactor Council Oak Ridge National Laboratory
   Engineering Design Activities Tony Colleraine Michael Roberts General
   Atomics U.S. Department of Energy vi Marshall N. Rosenbluth John
   Sheffield Ravi Sudan International Thermonuclear Oak Ridge National
   Laboratory Laboratory of Plasma Studies Experimental Reactor Cornell
   University Engineering Design Activities Yasuo Shimomura International
   Thermonuclear Matthew Weinberg Norman Rostoker Experimental Reactor
   Office of Technology Assessment Department of Physics Engineering
   Design Activities University of California, Irvine John W. Willis Loren
   Steinhaur U.S. Department of Energy Joanne Sedor Redmond Plasma Physics
   Office of Technology Assessment Laboratories University of Washington
   Note: OTA appreciates and is grateful for the valuable assistance and
   thoughtful critiques provided by the reviewers. The reviewers do not,
   however, necessarily approve, disapprove, or endorse this report. OTA
   assumes full responsibility for the report and the accu- racy of its
   contents. vii ontents 1 Overview and Findings 1 Achievements and
   Challenges of the U.S. Fusion Energy Program 6 Findings on TPX 9
   Findings on Alternate Concepts for Fusion Energy 12 2 The Federal
   Fusion Energy Research Program 17 History of U.S. Fusion Energy
   Research 18 The Fusion Program Goals in Law and Policy 32 Legislative
   Directives 36 Federal Fusion Energy Research Programs 36 Future Budget
   Choices 46 3 The Tokamak Physics Experiment 49 History of the TPX
   Decision 50 Description of TPX 53 Issues 57 4 Alternate Concepts for
   Fusion Energy 65 Reasons to Pursue Alternate Fusion Concepts 65 Status
   and Prospects of Alternate Concepts 68 Steps in Examining Alternate
   Concepts 76 DOE's Program for Alternate Concepts 78 Conclusion 80
   APPENDIX A Acronyms and Glossary of Terms 81 ix Overview and Findings
   or over four decades the federal government has supported research to
   develop the power of fusion energy for com- mercial electric power
   production. Fusion proponents note that the supply of fusion fuels is
   virtually inexhaustible, and that environmental impacts may be far less
   extensive than those of energy supplies currently in widespread use.
   Widely her- alded experiments performed in 1993 and 1994 at the
   Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory's Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor
   (TFTR) produced unprecedented levels of fusion reactions and continued
   a trend of progress in fusion research. However, even the most
   optimistic proponents of fusion ener- gy note that many scientific,
   engineering, and economic chal- lenges remain to be met. Meeting these
   challenges sufficiently to construct a prototype commercial fusion
   powerplant may require several tens of billions of dollars in
   experimental facilities and research over the next several decades.
   This would require a con- siderable increase from the U.S. Department
   of Energy's (DOE's) current fusion energy program budget of $373
   million, and a greater level of cost-sharing through international
   collaboration in fusion research and development.1 In 1987, the Office
   of Technology Assessment (OTA) con- cluded a major assessment of the
   fusion energy program and pub- lished the report Starpower: The U.S.
   and the International Quest 1 An additional $176 million is spent on
   inertial confinement fusion research as part of | 1 DOE's defense
   programs, much of which is relevant to fusion energy prospects. 2 The
   Fusion Energy Program: The Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts Physics
   Laboratory. This paper examines the history of TPX planning and the
   anticipated scientific, engineering, and institutional con- tributions
   of the TPX. It explores the relation- ship between the TPX and the next
   major planned tokamak facilities, the International Thermonuclear
   Experimental Reactor (ITER), currently in the design stage, and the
   Demon- stration Fusion Powerplant (DEMO) facility, planned for
   operation in about three decades, which would be the first fusion
   device to dem- onstrate production of electricity. G What is the role
   of alternatives to the toka- mak concept in a broad-based fusion energy
   program? This paper examines the motives for pursuing alternate
   concepts, the steps involved The proposed Tokamak Physics Experiment
   (TPX). and costs of alternate concept research, and the current status
   and process of alternate concept for Fusion Energy.2 Since then, the
   U.S. fusion research as conducted in the U.S. fusion energy energy
   program has undergone a pronounced program. Note that this paper does
   not assess change as it has grappled with uncertain budgets the likely
   attractiveness of any alternate fusion that have grown less quickly
   than the need for concept, nor does it suggest the appropriate lev-
   larger, more capable, and more expensive ma- el of effort to be devoted
   to it. Rather, the paper chines. One result has been a substantial
   narrow- reviews the level of development, which may ing of efforts to
   concentrate on the single most not be closely related to the long-term
   potential successful and furthest developed fusion concept, of a
   concept. the tokamak. This narrowing, driven heavily by budgetary
   reasons, has been decried by many fu- There are critical issues for the
   U.S. fusion en- sion researchers as premature given the current ergy
   program that are beyond the scope of this state of fusion knowledge.
   background paper. Three of the most important This background paper,
   requested by the House are noted here. First, this paper does not ex-
   Committee on Science, Space, and Technology,3 amine the rationale for
   the overall fusion ener- focuses on two issues in the recent and
   continuing gy program. In particular, the role of the fusion evolution
   of the U.S. fusion energy research and energy program in meeting
   long-term energy development (R&D) program: needs and the level of
   research effort justified by that potential role are critical issues
   for the . What is the role of the proposed Tokamak program. Whether or
   when fusion will meet the Physics Experiment (TPX)? TPX is an goal of
   becoming an economically and environ- approximately $700-million fusion
   reactor mentally attractive energy option will depend on currently in
   an advanced stage of engineering more than just success in a continuing
   multi- design and awaits a congressional decision to decade R&D
   program. It will also depend on the begin construction at the Princeton
   Plasma pace of progress in the other energy technologies I 2 U.S.
   Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, Starpower: The U.S. and the
   International Quest for Fusion Energy, OTA-E-338 (Washington, DC: U.S.
   Government Printing Office, October 1987). 3 Renamed the House
   Committee on Science. Chapter 1 Overview and Findings | 3 with which
   fusion must eventually compete. call for revised goals and directions.
   For example, These energy technologies span a broad array, even under
   substantial cuts, some see the possibil- from advanced nuclear fission
   reactors to renew- ity of sustaining progress by focusing on physics
   ables such as biomass, wind, and photovoltaics to issues using existing
   machines, increasing in- improved methods for finding, extracting, and
   ternational collaboration, supporting a modest but burning fossil fuels
   including coal, natural gas, expanded effort to investigate alternate
   concepts, and oil. Substantial improvements in energy effi- and
   concentrating on materials and technology ciency technologies continue
   as well.4 To the ex- advances that would be necessary for fusion pow-
   tent that these energy technologies continue to erplants. improve, they
   present an increasingly challenging An effort to identify the most
   productive uses market environment for future fusion power- of fusion
   energy funds under a variety of scenarios plants. While progress in
   fusion is continuing, could provide information critical in making
   other energy technologies are improving as well, budget decisions.
   Eventually, however, absent often with some federal support. The
   tradeoffs in novel, unexpected science developments, prog- timing and
   choice of R&D efforts in competing ress toward development of a fusion
   powerplant energy technologies including fusion are critical issues for
   fusion research policy beyond the scope would require a commitment to
   construction of of this paper.5 expensive new facilities. Finally,
   under any budg- A second and related critical issue for the fu- et
   scenario, consideration must be given to exist- sion energy program not
   addressed in this paper ing commitments such as decommissioning has to
   do with the possibility of declining budgets. TFTR and the
   international agreement to com- Proposals to greatly reduce fusion
   energy re- plete the engineering design of ITER. These two search
   spending heighten the importance of commitments alone total a few
   hundred million identifying possible new roles, directions, and dollars
   over the next several years. goals for the program under scenarios of
   flat or A third critical issue for the U.S. fusion ener- declining
   budgets. This paper discusses the like- gy program that is beyond the
   scope of this ly cost involved in continuing along the current
   background paper has to do with the increas- path of fusion research,
   and it is substantial. As ing internationalization of research.6 Due to
   the noted below, the current fusion energy program very high estimated
   cost of some fusion facilities, goals and directions, including
   construction and the domestic fusion energy program is pursuing
   operation of large new tokamaks, are inconsistent cost-sharing
   collaborative efforts with several even with flat budgets; the
   possibility of declining countries. ITER, with a roughly estimated
   design budgets sharpens the issue. Certainly, potentially and
   construction cost on the order of $10 billion, valuable work can be
   performed under a wide is the leading example (see box 1-1). The
   institu- range of research budgets. However, this would tional
   structure for this type of international col- 4 See, e.g., the
   following reports by U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment:
   Energy Efficiency: Challenges and Opportunities for Electric Utilities,
   OTA-E-561 (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, September
   1993); Industrial Energy Efficiency, OTA-E-560 (August 1993); Building
   Energy Efficiency, OTA-E-518 (May 1992); Energy Efficiency in Federal
   Facilities: Government by Good Example? OTA-E-492 (May 1991). 5 See
   U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, Energy Technology
   Choices, OTA-E-493 (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office,
   July 1991). The Secretary of Energy recently commissioned a review of
   DOE civilian energy R&D programs that will address this issue at some
   level. See The Honorable Hazel R. O'Leary, Secretary of Energy, letter
   to George M. Scalise, Sept. 8, 1994. Also, the Presi- dent's Council of
   Advisors on Science and Technology will report on the fusion energy
   program in Summer 1995. 6 OTA is currently examining the role of
   international collaboration in large science projects. That effort, due
   for completion in summer 1995, will examine the increasingly
   international character of several scientific fields, including that of
   fusion energy research. 4 The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of TPX
   and Alternate Concepts The United States, the European Union, Japan,
   and the Russian Federation are engaged in an unprecedented
   collaboration on the engineering design of the proposed International
   Thermonuclear Exper- imental Reactor (ITER). This collabora- tion has
   its roots in discussions among the leaders of the European Communi- ty,
   Japan, the Soviet Union, and the United States in the mid-1980s. ITER's
   purpose is to establish the scientific and technological feasibility of
   mag- netic fusion energy as a source of electric power by demonstrating
   con- trolled ignition and extended burn of deuterium-tritium plasmas
   and to demonstrate and test technologies, materials, and nuclear
   components essential to development of fusion en- ergy for practical
   purposes. It would not be capable, however, of actually generating
   electricity. Demonstrating the production of electricity in a mag-
   netic fusion energy powerplant would be left to the DEMO reactor, a
   device anticipated for construction no sooner The proposed
   lnternational Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor. than 2025. If built,
   ITER would be by far the largest, most capable, and costliest fusion
   experiment in the world. ITER uses a tokamak design, and would stand
   over eight stories tall and 30 meters in diameter. The device is
   intended to sustain controlled fusion reactions in a pulsed mode for
   periods of up to 15 minutes. ITER is expected to be capable of
   producing over 1,000 megawatts of thermal fusion power. Temperatures
   inside the confinement chamber would be up to 1,000 degrees centigrade,
   and mainte- nance and monitoring of the radioactive containment will
   have to be carried out by remote methods. The impressive scale of ITER
   is dictated by the physical requirements of heating and containing a
   plasma to fusion conditions on a steady state basis using available
   technology and materials. ITER offers not only great scientific
   challenges, but practical technological challenges as well. For
   example, ITER's superconducting magnetic coils will be the largest ever
   manufactured. Each coil will weigh over 400 tons. The amount of
   superconducting materials required to make them exceeds the available
   manufacturing capabilities of any one party, therefore a cooperative
   effort is underway to coordinate the materials manufacture,
   fabrication, and assembly. ITER is being conducted in four phases under
   formal intergovernmental agreements among the parties, These are: 1)
   the now-completed conceptual design activities (CDA); 2) the
   engineering design activities (EDA); 3) the construction phase; and 4)
   the operations phase. Each phase is to be governed Chapter 1 Overview
   and Findings 5 by a separate agreement among the parties and costs are
   shared equally. The first phase of the ITER project, CDA, was carried
   out from January 1988 to December 1990. All four parties contributed
   personnel and support to the ITER team for development of a conceptual
   design, scope, and mission for the project. Currently, ITER is in the
   EDA phase, which is scheduled to continue until July 1998. Under the
   ITER Agreements, each of the parties has committed the equivalent of
   $300 million (1993 dollars) worth of personnel and equipment to the
   design effort. The purpose of the ITER EDA phase is to produce a
   "detailed, complete, and fully integrated engineering design of ITER
   and all technical data necessary for future decisions on the
   construction of ITER." On completion, the design and technical data
   will be available for each of the parties to use either as part of an
   international collaborative program or in its own domestic program.
   Other objectives of the EDA phase are to conduct validating R&D
   supporting the engineering design of ITER, to establish siting
   requirements, to perform environmental and safety analyses related to
   the site, and to establish a program for ITER operation and
   decommissioning. EDA activities are overseen by an ITER Council
   composed of two representatives of each party. Decisions by the Council
   are based on consensus. Under the Council, the ITER Director is
   responsible for coordinating the activities of the Joint Central
   Team-an international design team composed of scientists, engineers,
   and other professionals assigned to the ITER project by the parties.
   The Joint Central Team activities are carried out at three Joint Work
   Sites-Garching, Germany; Naka, Japan; and San Diego, California. Each
   work site team is responsible for a different aspect of ITER design.
   The work of the Joint Central Team is supported by R&D activities by
   the "home country" fusion programs. Tasks are assigned and coordinated
   by the ITER Director in consultation with the ITER Council, the Joint
   Central Team, and each party's designated "Home Team" Leader. The next
   major step in the ITER process will be the negotiation of a process for
   deciding on a host site for ITER. Exploratory discussions on a site
   selection process are currently underway. Site selection will have to
   be accomplished so that the EDA team can complete specific site-related
   safety, environ- mental and economic analyses, and design work for the
   ITER facility. Following site selection, a decision on whether to
   proceed to ITER construction and operations phases is scheduled to be
   made before 1998 and would require a new international agreement. The
   ITER construction phase is tentatively planned to start in 1998 and to
   be completed by 2005. Initial estimates of ITER construction cost had
   been $6.9 billion in July 1993 dollars; some analysts have projected
   ITER costs of between $8 billion to $10 billion. Detailed cost
   estimates for this one-of-a kind research facility await completion of
   ITER engineering design work. Interim design and cost analyses are
   expected in mid-1995. Final design and cost estimates are due in
   January 1998, assuming site selection has been completed. The fourth or
   operating phase of ITER is proposed to begin in 2005 and run through
   approximately 2025. The early phases of ITER operation would be
   dominated by a focus on the physics issues relating to achieving and
   sustaining an ignited plasma. A more intense engineering phase will
   follow. As an engineering test facility, researchers would be able to
   install, test, and remove numerous ITER compo- nents, experimental
   packages, and test modules to test materials properties, component
   characteris- tics, performance, and Iifetimes in an environment
   approximating the conditions of an operating fusion powerplant. This
   experience would aid efforts at design and development of a
   demonstration fusion powerplant. 6 | The Fusion Energy Program: The
   Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts laboration in the construction and
   operation of cepts have been investigated, the most advanced large
   facilities remains to be developed, and its ul- of which is the tokamak
   reactor. Considerable ef- timate success will require dedication,
   flexibility, fort has also been devoted to inertial confinement, and
   innovation. This paper does examine one cur- in which a pellet of
   fusion fuel would be heated rent case in the coordination of the
   domestic and compressed by intense lasers or ion drivers to fusion
   energy program in the increasingly interna- such high densities that
   the fuel's own inertia is tional fusion arena-the methods by which TPX
   sufficient to contain it for the very short time need- is coordinated
   with ITER, and the potential con- ed for fusion to occur. Inertial
   confinement fusion tribution of TPX to that much more ambitious fa-
   research mimics, on a very much smaller scale, cility. It does not,
   however, examine the methods processes in the hydrogen bomb, and to
   date, by which ITER can be successfully developed, much of the research
   relevant to inertial fusion en- nor does it evaluate key issues in the
   ITER pro- ergy (IFE) has been performed by DOE's Office of gram as it
   relates to the broader fusion energy de- Defense Programs for its
   applications to nuclear velopment effort, such as project scope and
   weapons physics and stockpile stewardship re- timing. Further, it does
   not examine how the over- sponsibilities. all U.S. fusion energy
   program, including alter- The ultimate goal of DOE's fusion energy pro-
   nate concepts research, could be more fully gram is "to demonstrate
   that fusion energy is a integrated into the world effort. technically
   and economically viable energy source." DOE's primary emphasis in
   fusion ener- ACHIEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES OF gy is on developing the
   tokamak, and devotes by THE U.S. FUSION ENERGY PROGRAM far the largest
   share of the current fusion energy Fusion reactions, which power our
   sun and the budget to support design of two planned tokamak stars,
   occur when the nuclei of two lightweight reactors. Of the $373 million
   requested budget for atoms (e.g., isotopes of hydrogen such as deuteri-
   fiscal year 1995, 41 percent was for direct and in- um and tritium)
   combine together, or fuse, releas- direct design and support of ITER,
   and 33 percent ing energy (see figure 1-1). Understanding and was
   intended for design, construction, and sup- controlling the conditions
   that allow practical fu- port of TPX.7 Another 14 percent was to
   support sion to occur on earth, such as temperatures of operations of
   the largest operating U.S. tokamak, about 100 million degrees Celsius,
   present great TFTR. The remainder of the fusion energy budget
   scientific and technical challenges. At such high is devoted to such
   diverse activities as advanced temperatures, matter exists as plasma (a
   state in materials development, fusion technology devel- which atoms
   are broken down into electrons and opment, and study of alternate
   concepts including nuclei) that cannot be contained by any solid IFE.
   In addition, in fiscal year 1995 the Office of container. Defense
   Programs devoted $176 million to iner- Primary responsibility for
   fusion energy devel- tial confinement fusion research, much of which is
   opment rests with DOE and its Office of Energy relevant to IFE.
   Research. Most effort in fusion energy research Much progress has been
   made in fusion en- has been devoted to the magnetic confinement ap-
   ergy research over the past few years, but far proach, which uses
   magnetic fields to control the more remains to be done. Most notably,
   recent range of motion of the plasma. Several different experiments at
   TFTR attained a record in fusion magnetic fusion energy (MFE)
   confinement con- energy production of 10.7 megawatts (MW), 7 U.S.
   Department of Energy, "Fusion Energy Program," briefing package
   presented by N. Anne Davies to Office of Technology Assess- ment staff,
   Apr. 28, 1994. Note that of the $152 million related to ITER, $81
   million was for a diverse array of "support" activities rather than
   direct ITER design and R&D work. Similarly, of the $118 million related
   to TPX, $56 million was for support. Chapter 1 Overview and Findings 7
   I G G I \ Reaction conditions (density, temperature, time) I Neutron
   Products 14.1 MeV Helium 3.5 MeV Proton MeV = Million electron volts
   Neutron SOURCE: Office of Technology Assessment 1995, based on figure
   from U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Fusion Energy. amounting to a
   factor of about 100 million in- times higher than energy input to
   create the reac- crease in fusion power production over 20 years of
   tions) and ignition (the point at which a reaction is research.
   However, even the tokamak, the most self-sustaining even when external
   heating is advanced fusion energy concept, faces scientific turned off)
   in a steady state (continuous, rather and engineering challenges.
   Scientific challenges than intermittent, operation).8 However, even
   remaining to be met for MFE include achieving breakeven (the Point at
   which the energy produced high energy gain (energy output that is many
   8Fusion scientists typically have defined scientific feasibility as
   attainment of high energy gainer ignition. Steady state operation is
   general- ly not included in definitions of scientific feasibility,
   although it presents an important scientific challenge that must be met
   by any MFE power- plant. 8 The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of TPX
   and Alternate Concepts main scientific and technological issues for the
   MFE effort are the following: 1. ignition physics (e.g., understanding
   the prop- erties of a self-sustaining fusion reaction); 2. magnetic
   confinement configuration optimiza- tion (i.e., determining how best to
   shape the magnetic fields confining the plasma); 3 fusion nuclear
   technology (engineering sys- 0 tems to fuel, maintain, and recover
   energy from a fusion reactor); and 4. low activation materials
   development (devel- opment of materials that will not become high- ly
   radioactive in a fusion reactor). The Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor
   (TFTR) at the Princeton Meeting these challenges, by their very nature,
   re- Plasma Physics Laboratory set world records for fusion quires
   abroad-based program of scientific, techni- reactions using
   dueterium-tritium fuel in 1993 and 1994. TFTR, the largest U.S.
   tokamak, is scheduled to be shut cal, and industrial R&D. down in 1995.
   Under plans established a few years ago, tens of billions of dollars
   and about three decades of by fusion reactions equals the energy input
   to heat continued successful R&D will be needed be- the plasma9) has
   remained beyond the reach of fore the science and technology are
   sufficiently current facilities.10 The highly successful TFTR advanced
   to enable construction of DEMO fol- experiments of the past year, for
   example, reached lowing ITER, and a subsequent commercial just over
   one-quarter of breakeven--about 40 prototype may be operational only by
   around MW of external power were introduced to the 2040. It is worth
   noting that fusion researchers plasma to create about 10.7 MW in fusion
   reac- have long suggested a three-decade horizon for tions. This fusion
   energy production lasted for development of fusion energy. As budgets
   have only a few moments. If constructed, ITER would not met the
   expectations of researchers, and as the be the first MFE device
   expected to achieve igni- science has proven challenging, the horizons
   have tion, and to operate for long pulses of several continued to
   recede. hundred to over one thousand seconds. Congress will face tough
   decisions about Developing a commercial prototype fusion budget
   priorities for the fusion energy pro- powerplant requires more than
   merely meeting gram over the next few years, as current plans
   scientific challenges. It further requires meeting a for pursuing the
   tokamak imply a doubling or series of engineering challenges, including
   devel- more from fiscal year 1995's funding of $373 opment of
   materials, components, and systems for million (see figure 2-8 in
   chapter 2). The budget operating fusion reactors. According to DOE, the
   increase has not been explicitly stated in previous 9 Note that the
   amount of power consumed in heating the plasma is only part of the
   power actually consumed by the entire experiment. Losses incurred in
   generating the heating power and delivering it to the plasma are not
   included, nor is the power needed to operate systems such as the
   magnets and the vacuum system. 1 0 In discussing results of scientific
   experiments, fusion scientists often use the term "equivalent plasma
   conditions.'' This term refers to the development of a plasma not
   composed of fusion fuel (e.g., a mixture of deuterium and tritium, D-T)
   but rather of a plasma that is easier to work with (e.g., deuterium
   alone). While fusion reactions can occur in the deuterium-only plasma,
   far less energy is produced than with D-T. Thus, equivalent breakeven
   conditions refers to temperatures, densities, and confinement times in
   a plasma that would have resulted in true breakeven had such conditions
   been attained with fusion fuel. Using this definition, Europe's large
   tokamak, JET, has achieved the breakeven level in an equivalent
   deuterium plasma. Chapter 1 Overview and Findings | 9 DOE budget
   submissions, but is implied by new milestones were to be updated
   biennially. The facilities identified by DOE and continuation of plan
   is to include specific program objectives, the base program. Fusion
   researchers have long milestones, schedules, and cost estimates for
   identified the need for substantially larger re- technology
   development, program management search budgets, but congressional
   priorities have resource requirements, and an evaluation of in- varied
   with changing energy markets and other ternational fusion programs.
   factors, leading often to uncertain and fluctuating Undoubtedly one of
   the greatest challenges to budget prospects. For example, the Secretary
   of developing the strategic management plan is the Energy's Fusion
   Policy Advisory Committee in- need to address the longstanding divide
   between dicated in 1990 that the fusion energy budget the expected
   budgetary requirements of the fusion would need to be increased to
   about $700 million energy program and the history of funding at sub-
   annually in fiscal year 1990 dollars (not including stantially lower
   levels. Because pressures to con- the Defense Programs research in
   inertial confine- tain and reduce overall federal spending are likely
   ment fusion) to meet program goals, but the budg- to continue, the
   budgets needed to carry out the fu- et since then has been at only
   about one-half that sion energy program as currently envisioned may
   level (see figure 2-1 in chapter 2). not be realized. Without
   substantial funding in- By far the greatest single budgetary require-
   creases, the program will have to change signif- ment for the fusion
   energy program over the icantly from the current direction and new next
   decade will come from ITER, if current goals will be have to be set.
   plans are pursued. No decision has been made by the ITER partners on
   whether to proceed be- yond engineering design and to actually build
   the FINDINGS ON TPX device. However, if ITER is pursued according to
   TPX is intended to provide scientific and tech- the current proposed
   schedule, the U.S. contribu- nical advances that are clearly necessary
   to the tion to construction alone could require nearly a ultimate
   realization of a tokamak powerplant. doubling of the current total
   fusion energy pro- With regard to scientific issues, TPX is designed
   gram budget over the next few years. For example, to demonstrate and
   operate at long-pulse or near- although construction costs remain
   uncertain, as- steady state conditions, essential for an eventual
   suming the United States bears a one-quarter share powerplant. TPX is
   also designed to explore ad- to build an approximately $10 billion ITER
   over vanced operating modes or regimes that, if suc- an eight-year
   construction horizon implies an av- cessful, would allow increases in
   confinement erage ITER construction budget alone that is over
   efficiency and power density in future tokamaks, $300 million annually,
   or over 80 percent of the and ultimately reduce the size and cost of a
   toka- entire current U.S. fusion energy program budget. mak fusion
   energy reactor. With regard to techno- Unless the budget is greatly
   increased, it will not logical advances, TPX would be the first large
   be possible to complete the ITER project as cur- fully superconducting
   tokamak (i.e., the magnets rently envisioned. will be superconducting,
   greatly reducing the Finally, the information and analyses needed to
   amount of electrical power they consume). This support congressional
   decisions on fusion energy would be a substantial achievement, and is
   essen- budgets and policy are not readily available. De- tial for
   steady-state operation of an MFE power- spite congressional
   requirements in the Energy plant. TPX would also allow investigation of
   a Policy Act of 1992, as of December 1994, DOE variety of
   configurations for the divertor, a major has not issued a strategic
   management plan for component essential in any eventual tokamak en- the
   fusion energy program by which the pro- ergy powerplant for removing
   both reaction prod- gram's progress can be judged. The manage- ucts
   (e.g., helium "ash" produced by fusion) and ment plan was required to
   be prepared by April heat. Remote handling, necessary for mainte- 1993
   and progress reports on meeting the plan nance in a radioactive
   environment created by fu- 10 | The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of
   TPX and Alternate Concepts sion reactions, would also be developed for
   come operational only after the start of ITER maintenance of mildly
   radioactive equipment construction, greatly reducing the ability to
   trans- where limited human intervention will still be fer TPX
   experimental results to ITER design. No possible. other partner in the
   ITER project has found it es- TPX is also intended to maintain the
   sential to pursue a device with TPX's capabilities strength of the U.S.
   magnetic fusion energy as part of the program for successful
   development program after TFTR retires in 1995. There are of ITER.11
   The ITER design group indicates that several other U.S. tokamaks
   operating currently, it intends to provide the flexibility in ITER to
   ex- the largest of which are the DIII-D at General amine most of the
   technology and science areas to Atomics in San Diego and Alcator C-Mod
   at the be examined by TPX. The ITER interim design, Massachusetts
   Institute of Technology. However, expected in June 1995, should allow a
   better as- absent TPX, there will be no new U.S. tokamak sessment of
   whether this is indeed the case. under development. To support a strong
   MFE re- One area in which TPX may produce unique search and development
   capability, TPX has been scientific benefits concerns the
   investigations organized as a national facility with design and of
   specific steady-state, advanced operating operation guided by members
   from various uni- modes. Currently, ITER is being designed with
   versities, national laboratories, and U.S. indus- more conservative
   operating modes than TPX. tries. Proponents note that experience with
   building major TPX systems such as the super- However, the ITER design
   group has indicated its conducting magnets could give U.S. industry a
   intent to maintain the flexibility to examine a firmer base in
   competing to construct ITER. They range of advanced modes approaching
   those of also note that both Japan and Europe have large to- TPX in the
   later phases of its experimental effort. kamaks that can continue
   operations for several Building in this flexibility may be expensive,
   years beyond the retirement of the U.S.' TFTR, though, as significant
   upgrades to auxiliary sys- supporting their base tokamak programs until
   the tems may be required. Again, the ITER interim next steps are
   decided for ITER. Note, however, design should allow a better
   assessment of the de- that TPX would not be operational before the year
   gree of flexibility and its costs. Whatever the ex- 2000, and so could
   provide design and construc- tent of flexibility built into ITER, TPX
   could tion benefits but not experimental benefits before provide unique
   benefits. To the extent that ITER's them. flexibility is limited, TPX
   could play an important TPX is not scheduled to provide any unique
   scientific role in examining the advanced operat- scientific and
   technological advances essential ing mode issue. On the other hand,
   even if wide to ITER. Indeed, when the ITER conceptual de- flexibility
   would be built into the ITER design, sign activity was completed in
   1991, DOE had no TPX results may help identify certain unpromis- formal
   plans to build TPX or a device like it, al- ing approaches and thereby
   help avoid performing though a steady-state advanced tokamak was rec-
   unpromising retrofits or upgrades to ITER. This ommended by the Fusion
   Policy Advisory could be important since testing in ITER of some
   Committee as one of four major facilities needed advanced operating
   modes examined in TPX prior to the construction of a demonstration
   fusion could require a potentially costly reconfiguration reactor.
   Also, under current plans, TPX will be- of ITER. 11 The Japanese have
   also carried out a conceptual design of a superconducting machine
   called the JT-60 Super Upgrade (JT-60SU). It would have many of the
   features planned for TPX and would be larger and more powerful.
   However, construction has not been approved, and is not expected prior
   to decisions about siting and construction of ITER. Note also that both
   Europe and Japan currently have large, relatively young tokamaks that
   will continue to provide a major focus for their own programs for
   several years. In contrast, the largest U.S. tokamak, TFTR, is
   scheduled to retire in 1995. Chapter 1 Overview and Findings | 11 TPX's
   primary expected contribution to of TPX results to DEMO. There is no
   question ITER would be the ability to perform experi- that successful
   achievement of many of the goals ments on a device that is smaller,
   more flexible, to be investigated by TPX-steady-state opera- and less
   costly to operate. Because of the sched- tion, superconducting magnets,
   remote handling, uling overlap between the projects, it will be im- and
   advanced divertor design in particular-will possible to take full
   advantage of the potential be necessary if a tokamak-based fusion power
   TPX results in the design and construction of reactor is to become a
   reality. These areas can be ITER. For example, as noted above, some
   poten- incorporated in ITER from the start or be inte- tially costly
   decisions to build flexibility into grated into it after testing in TPX
   or elsewhere. In- ITER design allowing examination of advanced
   tegration of advanced tokamak operations results operating modes will
   be made long before TPX into ITER, however, may be more limited and re-
   experimental results would be available. There quire significant
   upgrades. Since successful dem- may be some construction benefits as,
   for exam- onstration of these operations can have significant ple,
   industrial experience gained from TPX consequences for the economics of
   a fusion power construction may be useful preparation for ITER reactor
   using the tokamak concept, it will be im- construction. portant to
   build them into the DEMO design. To A more important potential benefit
   concerns the degree that advanced regime operation will not decisions
   on possibly costly retrofits to ITER to have been tested in a
   long-pulse ignited device, a examine advanced operating modes, as
   discussed difficult decision will eventually be needed to bal- above.
   There are other potentially important bene- ance the scientific risk of
   incorporating that fea- fits in the area of ITER operations. For
   example, ture in an expensive facility such as DEMO TPX experiments in
   long-pulse operation may against the benefits of smaller size and lower
   cost. shorten the needed schedule for such experiments The value of TPX
   to the magnetic fusion at ITER, allowing ITER to move more quickly
   energy program could increase if ITER is into research areas for which
   it is uniquely suited. delayed. The physics and technology TPX would
   The cost and schedule savings could be substan- investigate are
   fundamental for the development tial, given ITER's likely high
   operating costs and of any tokamak powerplant, but the prospects for
   lower flexibility relative to TPX. For example, success are by no means
   certain. However, incor- annual operating costs for ITER, while still
   unde- porating the results of the TPX advanced operat- termined and
   highly uncertain, may be on the or- ing mode experiments in the design
   of ITER der of several hundred million dollars. However, would require
   a several-year delay of ITER design the likely acceleration in the ITER
   operating and construction. While many of the steady-state schedule
   enabled by TPX remains speculative. and advanced operating regime
   issues to be inves- Overall, while the potential benefits of TPX to
   tigated by TPX are unique to the tokamak concept, ITER can be real,
   their magnitude is uncer- the results of technology development could
   also tain, and DOE has not estimated their value. be useful to other
   MFE concepts. For example, Further, there are no plans to account for
   the operation of superconducting magnets, divertors, benefits of TPX to
   ITER as part of the direct and remote handling will be necessary on any
   contribution to the U.S. commitment to eventual MFE reactor. ITER.12
   Overall, TPX is a costly undertaking that con- Unless tested in ITER,
   there will likely be tinues to receive considerable congressional
   considerable uncertainty of the transferability attention. However, it
   presents only the most im- 12 This is consistent with the policy of the
   ITER partners that physics research performed by the partners in
   support of ITER is not counted against commitments to ITER design and
   construction. 12 | The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of TPX and
   Alternate Concepts mediate example of a series of difficult decisions
   reasons related to nuclear weapons. However, the that Congress and DOE
   will have to make about total research effort devoted to inertial
   fusion, in- the fusion energy program. Its budget of about $2 cluding
   both defense and civilian programs, billion including construction and
   operation over makes IFE the largest alternate approach to fusion the
   next 15 years13 represents only about 5 to 10 in the United States. A
   number of more novel fu- percent of the likely total U.S. MFE research
   sion energy concepts have been suggested that budget needed to enable a
   commercial prototype take fundamentally different, and more specula-
   tokamak powerplant by the year 2040. Regard- tive, approaches including
   muon catalysis, elec- less of decisions on TPX, the overall tokamak
   trostatic confinement, and colliding beams. fusion energy effort will
   require justifying a se- Over the past several years, the fusion ener-
   ries of expensive research activities, of which gy program was
   substantially narrowed to fo- the U.S. contribution to ITER presents
   the cus on the tokamak primarily for budgetary largest single budgetary
   requirement in the rather than technical reasons. This narrowing near
   future. was partly a response to congressional pressure.16 As noted by
   DOE in its fiscal year 1993 budget FINDINGS ON ALTERNATE CONCEPTS
   request: FOR FUSION ENERGY . . . [F]iscal constraints have required the
   pro- Over the past several decades, the tokamak has gram to prematurely
   narrow its focus to the clearly emerged as the most scientifically
   success- tokamak concept, including tokamak improve- ful MFE concept
   with unmatched plasma temper- ment activities, and to eliminate major
   alternate atures, densities, and confinement times. It is the magnetic
   confinement program elements. focus of U.S. and world fusion energy
   programs. Operation of several existing experimental de- There are,
   however, a number of alternate fusion vices was halted or minimized. In
   one example, concepts14 for which the knowledge base is more
   construction of the LSX, a $14-million device to limited (as shown in
   table 4-1 in chapter 4). These test the field reversed configuration,
   was com- include several non-tokamak MFE concepts, pleted in 1990
   followed by encouraging startup some of which have been extensively
   pursued- tests, but funding to continue confinement experi- such as the
   stellarator, a close variation of the to- ments was not available. In
   another example, kamak.15 Several other MFE concepts including
   construction of a 75-percent-complete, $75-mil- mirrors, reversed field
   pinch, and the field re- lion device to test another promising concept,
   the versed configuration have been examined less reversed field pinch,
   was canceled in 1990. Simi- thoroughly. Scientific exploration of IFE
   con- larly, in fiscal year 1994, the civilian IFE budget cepts has been
   extensively pursued primarily for was reduced by 50 percent to $4
   million, well be- 13 The total construction cost of TPX, estimated to
   be $694 million in as-spent dollars, was planned to be spent by fiscal
   year 2000, with a peak of about $130 million to $140 million each in
   fiscal years 1996 to 1998. However, while Congress appropriated funds
   in fiscal year 1995 for acquisition of major TPX systems, it restricted
   funds to begin construction. As of December 1994, DOE had not
   identified the impact of the restriction on the overall cost and
   schedule of TPX. DOE projects annual operating costs of about $150
   million in fiscal year 2000 dollars for the 10-year life of the
   facility once operations begin. 14 In this report, the term "alternate
   concept" has the meaning "nontokamak concept." 15 Japan is currently
   completing the construction of a stellarator, the Large Helical Device,
   at a total cost of about $1 billion. Germany is pursuing a stellarator
   of similar size and cost. 16 See, e.g., "Conference Report on the
   Energy and Water Development Appropriations," H. Rept, 103-292,
   Congressional Record 139:H7906, at p. H7948, Oct. 14, 1993 (daily ed.).
   Chapter 1 Overview and Findings | 13 low the level needed to continue
   work developing theoretical study of a wide range of alternate con- a
   planned heavy ion driver device despite success- cepts that could be
   performed for less than 1 per- ful operations on a smaller test
   facility.17 cent of the fusion energy program budget. This There were,
   of course, technical reasons that could help in identifying attractive
   prospects for the tokamak was retained as the primary focus- additional
   development efforts, or for discarding none of the alternate MFE
   concepts had attained some concepts as not showing substantial promise
   similar performance, and a variety of technical as the most attractive
   fusion energy device. While challenges and uncertainties remained.
   However, each alternate concept has its own development there is a
   widely held view that the narrowing profile, next steps need not
   necessarily cost a sub- of the fusion energy program was premature
   stantial fraction of the fusion energy program and did not reflect the
   benefits of pursuing al- budget. For example, experiments on existing
   re- ternate concepts. The view that examination of versed field pinch
   and field reversed configuration alternate fusion confinement concepts
   is an im- devices could be resumed and increased for under portant
   component of a fusion energy program is $5 million dollars, providing
   considerable insight held even by many supporters of the tokamak, in-
   into the prospects for these promising but still cluding DOE. There are
   clear reasons for support- speculative concepts. Also, next steps on
   inter- ing an alternate concepts program as part of the mediate-scale
   facilities need not necessarily be fusion energy program. Among them is
   that pur- conducted by the United States alone, but might suit of
   promising alternate concepts, including be undertaken through
   collaborative international novel ones, may provide a fusion energy
   option should the tokamak prove technically infeasi- efforts. ble or
   commercially unattractive. It is important IFE using a heavy ion driver
   is widely consid- to note, however, that in many cases the knowl- ered
   the primary alternate concept, and involves edge base is not adequately
   developed to deter- the costliest next steps. However, proponents mine
   whether some alternate concept is likely to suggest a development path
   for the heavy ion exceed the performance of the tokamak. Data and
   driver IFE concept leading to a demonstration theory do not currently
   support large-scale ex- powerplant that could be substantially more
   perimentation for any alternate MFE concept flexible and less costly
   than that planned for other than the stellarator. the tokamak
   development effort. There is con- The necessary dependence on
   experimental fa- siderable scientific and technical uncertainty with
   cilities and research to verify theory can make IFE, and development
   costs are uncertain as well. fusion energy concept development
   expensive. Overall, some IFE proponents envision a $4-bil- DOE suggests
   that a "healthy, but con- lion civilian effort (with another $4 billion
   from strained" alternate concepts program would defense programs)
   spread over a number of mod- require about $100 million per year. This
   effort erate-cost facilities resulting in a demonstration would include
   construction and operation of some powerplant. In contrast, design,
   construction, and intermediate-scale facilities. However, a sub-
   operation of ITER alone is expected to cost well in stantial amount of
   information that provides a excess of that amount, and is only one of
   the major firmer basis for making future alternate con- future research
   activities involved in the tokamak cept decisions could be developed
   with a far development program. There remain considerable more modest
   program. For example, some fu- scientific and technical challenges with
   heavy ion sion researchers have proposed a broad-based IFE, however,
   and the estimated cost of the effort 17 The budget for the DOE Defense
   Program inertial confinement fusion program, which performs much of the
   research relevant to IFE, was not affected. 14 The Fusion Energy
   Program: The Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts A conceptual inertial
   fusion energy powerplant using a heavy-ion induction Iinear
   accelerator. could rise significantly as more experience is to maintain
   expertise in nuclear weapons physics. gained. Whether NIF is
   constructed will probably depend One critical issue with IFE is its
   relationship to more on weapons-related reasons, including its the
   considerably larger inertial fusion program role in maintaining nuclear
   weapons design ex- now included within the nation's nuclear weapons
   pertise and the potential effects on weapons prolif- programs. This
   relationship provides an advan- eration, and budget considerations
   rather than its tage for the IFE effort, in that much of the funding
   benefits for the fusion energy program.18 for basic scientific research
   needed has come un- In summary, while alternate concepts pro- der DOE's
   defense program. The next major step vide no panacea for fusion energy
   develop- in IFE development is to explore ignition physics, ment, there
   is merit in examiningthem as part a topic also relevant to maintaining
   nuclear weap- of a broad fusion program Relative to the ex- ons
   expertise. The IFE development plans assume pected costs of the tokamak
   effort, a great deal of completion of the National Ignition Facility
   exploratory work can be conducted at modest (NIF), a proposed
   $1-billion research facility be- cost. Assuming some of the concepts
   prove tech- ing considered under the Defense Program at nically
   promising, however, further development DOE as part of the stockpile
   stewardship program 1 8 In October 1994, the Secretary of Energy
   approved NIF for engineering design (Key Decision 1,or KD-1). The
   primary mission of NIF is to demonstrate inertial fusion ignition and
   modest energy gain. Chapter 1 Overview and Findings | 15 may require
   larger budgets for construction of ex- of research effort justified by
   that potential role, pensive facilities. As with the tokamak effort,
   the are critical issues for the direction of alternate con- potential
   role of the overall fusion energy program cepts research. in meeting
   long-term energy needs, and the level The Federal Fusion Energy
   Research Program fter more than 40 years of federally supported
   research into fusion energy, researchers have made substantial strides
   in the understanding of plasma physics and in the design and operation
   of controlled fusion reactions in the laboratory. Many more scientific
   and technical challenges remain to be overcome before fusion energy's
   scientific and engineering feasibility can be conclusively established.
   Most researchers be- lieve that, even if current research and
   development (R&D) plans are fully funded and technically successful,
   commercial genera- tion of electricity from fusion powerplants still
   remains decades away.1 Even then, fusion's economic feasibility as a
   power source will be determined in large part by the availability,
   costs, and pub- lic acceptability of competing fossil, fission, and
   renewable ener- gy technologies. The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
   sponsors fusion re- search under two separate programs on magnetic
   fusion and iner- tial confinement fusion. DOE's fusion energy research
   programs have been heavily reviewed over the years. Most reviews have
   complimented the steady technical and scientific progress achieved.
   Over the past decade, however, several major reviews have expressed
   concern about the narrowing scope of the magnet- ic fusion energy
   program, the lack of support for research on alter- nate concepts, and
   the adequacy of funding to carry out even narrow program objectives on
   the scales and schedules proposed. Fusion's potential attractiveness as
   an energy source has contin- 1 Commercial power generation has been a
   major goal of government fusion research almost from the beginning,
   however, other potential applications of fusion technology | 17 have
   been suggested, such as space propulsion, for example. 18 | The Fusion
   Energy Program: The Role of TPX and Alternate Concepts ued to garner
   political and financial support in the This chapter provides an
   overview of the feder- United States and in foreign nations, despite
   its al fusion research program, its history, legislative uncertain
   future. authority, goals and organizational structure. The Energy
   Policy Act of 1992 committed the nation to a five-year "broad-based"
   fusion energy HISTORY OF U.S. FUSION program "that by the year 2010
   will result in a ENERGY RESEARCH technology demonstration which
   verifies the practicability of commercial electric power pro- T Early
   Years: 1950 to 1970 duction."2 The DOE magnetic fusion program has U.S.
   research on controlled fusion for energy pur- proposed moving forward
   with a major new do- poses began in 1951 as an offshoot of classified
   mestic fusion experiment, the Tokamak Physics weapons-related research
   under the Atomic Ener- Experiment (TPX), the first new U.S. tokamak in
   gy Commission's Project Sherwood. Over the two decades. The United
   States has also been decade, federal dollars supporting research in fu-
   engaged in an ongoing collaboration on the en- sion and the new "plasma
   physics" grew and re- gineering design of the International Thermonu-
   search programs were established at national clear Experimental Reactor
   (ITER), a machine laboratories, universities, and several private that
   is intended to reach the critical milestone of an companies.3
   Initially, fusion research was pur- ignited fusion plasma and provide
   an engineering sued with the objective of using fusion reactions test
   bed for reactor components needed to design a to produce plutonium and
   tritium for nuclear demonstration fusion powerplant. Design and
   weapons, but later discovery of ample domestic construction costs for
   the ITER facility are cur- uranium resources eliminated this objective.
   rently estimated on the order of $10 billion; more However, early on,
   many scientists became in- precise preliminary cost projections for
   building trigued with the prospects of fusion as a nearly in- and
   operating ITER are scheduled to be available exhaustible energy source.
   Researchers of the in summer 1995. Final cost estimates will not be
   time believed that harnessing fusion would not be made until after a
   site has been selected. Under the an especially difficult challenge,
   requiring per- current ITER agreement, there is no commitment haps one
   or two decades to develop a fusion reac- by any of the parties to
   proceed beyond the engi- tor. The key would be discovering a "magnetic
   neering design activities phase. If constructed, bottle" that could
   contain the fusion reaction. Dur- ITER would be funded, built, and
   operated as an ing the 1950s, several magnetic confinement ap- equal
   partnership with the Japanese, Russian, and proaches were investigated,
   including mirrors, European Community fusion programs and marks
   stellarators, and pinches, but, in all of them, re- an unprecedented
   level of cooperation in a large searchers encountered instabilities in
   the plasmas science and technology project. Recently, the that limited
   the confinement times, temperatures, ITER parties have begun
   discussions on a possible and pressures. It also became more widely ap-
   collaboration on a fusion materials irradiation parent that progress in
   the science of fusion plas- facility. mas and development of a
   commercial fusion 2 Public Law 102-486, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2776,
   at section 2114, 106 Stat. 3073-3074 (codified as 42 U.S.C. 13474). 3
   For more on the history of the fusion program, see U.S. Congress,
   Office of Technology Assessment, Starpower: The U.S. and the Interna-
   tional Quest for Fusion Energy, OTA-E-336 (Washington, DC: U.S.
   Government Printing Office, October 1987), ch. 3; and Committee on Mag-
   netic Fusion in Energy Policy, Energy Engineering Board, Commission on
   Engineering and Technical Systems, National Research Council, Pacing
   the U.S. Magnetic Fusion Program (Washington, DC: National Academy
   Press, 1989). Chapter 2 The Federal Fusion Energy Research Program 19
   power reactor would be a long and expensive un- Central dertaking.
   solenoid In 1958, the United States declassified fusion magnet research
   as a result of the Second Geneva Conven- tion on the Peaceful Uses of
   Atomic Energy and opened the door to international cooperation Poloidal
   among U.S., Soviet, and European fusion re- field searchers. Since
   then, international cooperation magnet has grown from informal contacts
   among scien- tists and exchanges between research laboratories to
   formal collaborative agreements between gov- Toroidal ` ernment
   programs and to the ongoing collabora- field magnet tion on the design
   of ITER. Tokamak magnets. A tokamak uses three types of magnets. During
   the 1960s, research continued on plas- Toroidal field magnets create a
   `container" for the plasma, ma physics and ways of overcoming
   instabilities while poloidal field magnets keep the plasma centered and
   in the plasma to improve confinement times and stable. The central
   solenoid magnets induce an electric current in the plasma. densities,
   but progress was very slow. By the sec- ond half of the 1960s,
   government and private in- terest in fusion R&D was waning. Then, in
   the late tration, which was later absorbed into the new De- 1960s, the
   Russians announced significant ad- partment of Energy in 1977. Magnetic
   fusion and vances in confinement conditions using their to- inertial
   confinement fusion energy activities re- kamak concept. Conflation of
   the tokamak mained in separate programs. results gave renewed impetus
   to fusion energy re- The U.S. magnetic fusion program supported a
   search activities overall and resulted in a redirec- broad range of
   research activities. The tokamak tion of research efforts in the United
   States, continued to be the most technically advanced of Europe, and
   Japan. The United States converted a the magnetic confinement concepts
   and a number stellarator to tokamak configuration and built sev- eral
   new small tokamaks at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Massachusetts
   Institute of Technolo- gy, and General Atomics in San Diego. T The
   1970s: Program Expansion Fusion research funding expanded substantially
   from $34 million in 1970 to over $350 million in 1979 as shown in
   figure 2-1. These increases were part of the overall expansion of
   federal energy R&D in response to the 1973 OPEC oil embargo and
   reflected the optimism generated by the rela- tive successes of the
   tokamaks and the belief that fusion technologies ultimately could prove
   more publicly acceptable on environmental and safety grounds than
   competing nuclear fission reactors. In the reordering of federal energy
   research activi- ties in 1974, fusion energy research activities of the
   Atomic Energy Commission became part of SOURCE: Office of Technology
   Assessment, 1995, based on historical information from the U.S.
   Department of Energy, and budget docu- the Energy Research and
   Development Adminis- ments. 20 | The Fusion Energy Program: The Role of
   TPX and Alternate Concepts of small and mid-size tokamak fusion
   reactors imental machines as competitors to the tokamak, were placed in
   operation in U.S. research labora- and that the focus on tokamaks was
   prematurely tories and many continue operating today. Con- narrowing
   the search for an attractive commercial struction of a major new
   machine, the Tokamak reactor confinement concept.4 Although the toka-
   Fusion Test Reactor (TFTR) was begun at the mak was delivering
   promising results in the lab- Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory
   (PPPL). oratory, questions raised about its ultimate The TFTR remains
   among the largest and most acceptability as a design for a commercial
   power advanced tokamaks in the world. The TFTR was reactor continued to
   spur interest in development to pursue a series of experiments planned
   to cul- of alternative concepts. An outside review of the minate in the
   early 1980s in deuterium and tritium ambitious DOE fusion energy
   research plan in (D-T) reactions that could approach or even reach 1978
   supported the redirection of the program the key fusion milestone of
   breakeven. At the toward development of fusion power reactor same time,
   the program expanded the exploration technology and endorsed the
   concept of a "two- of alternative confinement concepts as well as re-
   horse race" between the tokamak and mirror con- search into the various
   reactor-related component cepts that could be expanded to include other
   technologies and materials that would be needed serious contenders as
   they emerged.5 A 1980 re- for eventual commercial fusion power systems.
   view by the DOE Energy Research Advisory Fusion energy research
   programs were supported Board (ERAB) recommended that the fusion pro-
   at a number of national laboratories and universi- gram should proceed
   to development of a next- ties, and the program provided support for
   train- step engineering test reactor and called for a ing the majority
   of the plasma physicists in the doubling of the magnetic fusion budget
   over the United States. In 1976, design and construction next seven
   years. These recommendations were began on a second major fusion
   experiment, the subsequently embodied in the Magnetic Fusion Mirror
   Fusion Test Facility B (MFTF-B) at Law- Energy Engineering Act of
   1980.6 rence Livermore National Laboratory, that was in- tended to
   compete with the tokamak concept. The 1970s also marked the beginning
   of am- T The 1980s: Technical Progress and bitious fusion R&D programs
   in Japan and the Declining Budgets European Community with commitments
   to con- In the 1980s, the sense of urgency generated by the struction
   of major new tokamak facilities and 1970s "energy crisis," which had
   pushed the pro- significant increases in research budgets. Interna-
   gram to develop a fusion demonstration power- tional collaboration
   among fusion researchers plant, rapidly abated, and funding began to
   also expanded during this period, setting the stage decline. Policy
   shifts and growing budgetary pres- for future cooperative efforts.
   sures contributed to a de-emphasis on research on Even as the U.S.
   fusion program was expand- alternative concepts and the cancellation,
   moth- ing rapidly during the 1970s, concern was ex- balling, or
   shut-down of a number of major exper- pressed that funding for the
   fusion energy imental facilities. Throughout the 1980s, the program
   could not support the design, construc- magnetic fusion program
   underwent a series of tion, and operation of several major fusion
   exper- management reviews and redirections as budgets 4 See, e.g., U.S.
   Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, Comparative Analysis of the
   1976 ERDA Plan and Program, OTA-E-28 (Washington, DC: U.S. Government
   Printing Office, May 1976), pp. 98-102; and reports cited in Committee
   on Magnetic Fusion in Energy Policy, op. cit., footnote 3, pp. 18-39. 5
   Committee on Magnetic Fusion in Energy Policy, op. cit., footnote 3,
   citing U.S. Department of Energy, Review Committee on the Magnet- ic
   Fusion Energy Program, "Final Report," DOE/ER-0008, June 1978. 6 For a
   discussion of this act, see the next section of this chapter. Chapter 2
   The Federal Fusion Energy Research Program | 21 continued to decline in
   real terms. As a result, the The CPMP was strongly criticized by the
   fu- program began to be increasingly focused on gain- sion technical
   advisory committee of ERAB in its ing approval and funding for an
   advanced to- first triennial review of the fusion program re- kamak
   successor to the TFTR and for its quired under MFEEA. The panel
   concluded that involvement in an international collaboration to program
   budgets would not allow the CPMP build an ignition tokamak. That focus
   continues goals to be met, and that the proposed schedule today. would
   force a premature choice between the com- The Reagan Administration
   held markedly dif- peting mirror and tokamaks concepts, and could
   ferent views of the appropriate role of federal en- delay progress on
   tokamak advances. Moreover, it ergy R&D activities than did its
   predecessors, and called for construction of an engineering test reac-
   sharply reduced the budgets of many energy re- tor (ETR) before
   necessary technology would be search programs. However, because it was
   unde- available. The panel recommended a redirection niably targeted at
   high-risk, long-term research, of the program to delay construction of
   an ETR, the magnetic fusion program fit more closely with allow
   construction of a tokamak successor to the new administration's
   priorities than fossil, re- TFTR to study ignition and burning plasma
   phys- newable, and energy-efficiency research projects ics issues, and
   to maintain a strong innovative that were focused on nearer term
   commercial ef- program in plasma physics, technology develop- forts.
   Consequently, the fusion budgets fared bet- ment, and alternate
   confinement concepts.7 ter than some other programs during the Reagan
   years. The fusion program budget actually in- In 1985, responding to
   these criticisms and oth- creased in nominal dollars to peak at $468
   million ers, DOE issued a revised Magnetic Fusion Pro- in fiscal year
   (FY) 1984 before it began its decline. gram Plan (MFPP) that states
   that "the goal of the (According to an analysis by DOE using special
   magnetic fusion program is to establish the scien- "high energy
   physics" equipment and construc- tific and technological base required
   for fusion en- tion indices, the fusion program funding peaked in
   ergy."8 This goal has remained the central mission real terms in 1977
   and thereafter failed to keep of the fusion program ever since. The
   MFPP re- progress with inflation. By 1988 the magnetic fu- duced the
   emphasis on reactor development that sion program funding had
   effectively been cut to had characterized the 1983 plan and
   concentrated half of what it was at its 1970s peak). on the science and
   engineering requirements. It DOE's 1983 Comprehensive Program Man- laid
   out several key technical issues to be resolved agement Plan (CPMP) for
   the fusion program by the fusion energy program, recommended (required
   by the Magnetic Fusion Energy En- construction of a compact ignition
   tokamak (CIT) gineering
