http://www.mocbhe.gov/MOSTARS/prepcol.htm

   If you do not have JavaScript enabled or are using an older browser you
   will not be able to view our page correctly. Please proceed to our Text
   Only Version.

   Higher Education Seal jpg Missouri Department of Higher Education gif
   [logo1.gif]
   banner gif
   About Us | Calendar | Employment  | Text Only  |  Contact Us | MO State
   Page
   Home | Help Desk/FAQ | Life Sciences in Higher Education

   dividing_line

                            Preparing for College
     __________________________________________________________________

     * Choosing a Career
     * Academic Preparation for College
     * Test Preparation and Strategies
     * Requesting Information from Colleges
     * Paying for College
     * About GEAR UP
     * About MOSTARS Outreach and Early Awareness Division
     * Academic Resume


   Choosing a Career

   You may think it's too early to start thinking about planning for a
   career, but now is the perfect time. The earlier you start, the more
   options you will have. To start, you should determine your career goal.
   Begin by thinking about your skills and interests. Are you good in art,
   science or math; or do you like computers? These types of questions
   will help you start identifying your career interests. Once you have
   listed your interests, research occupations that match your interests
   and skills. The Occupational Outlook Handbook is a very useful tool.

   Below is a chart with examples of many popular careers, grouped by the
   number of years of higher education you will need.

   Two Years

                                 Four Years

                                                              Four+ Years

   Automotive mechanic           Accountant                   Dentist
   Commercial artist             Computer engineer            Lawyer
   Computer technician           Teacher                      Veterinarian
   Dental hygienist              Writer                       College professor
   Engineering technician        FBI Agent                    Physician
   Heating/air-conditioning      College admissions counselor Geologist
   Refrigeration technician      Public relations specialist  Minister, priest,
                                                              rabbi
   Hotel/restaurant manager      Journalist                   Architect
   Medical laboratory technician Sports/newscaster            Psychologist
   Physical therapy assistant    Investment banker            Marine biologist
   Registered nurse              Insurance agent              Economist
   Water/wastewater treatment    Social worker                Urban planner
   Plant operator                Chemical engineer            Urban planner

   Back to Top

   Academic Preparation for College

   Most colleges and universities will require that you take certain high
   school core courses before they will admit you. Taking the right
   courses in middle school can help you prepare for the high school core
   courses and be more successful when you take the courses. By taking the
   following courses during middle school, you may be better prepared for
   high school.

                     7th grade                8th grade
                    Pre-algebra               Algebra 1
                      English                  English
                  Foreign Language         Foreign Language
                  Computer Science         Computer Science
              History/Civics/Geography History/Civics/Geography

   Keep track of the courses you take, your extracurricular activities,
   your community service or volunteer work and your employment on your
   personal academic resume. The resume can be helpful during college and
   job application processes.

   Back to Top

   Test Preparation and Strategies

   Before applying for admission to college, most students take several
   assessment tests. The following are some tips for test preparation and
   strategies for test taking.

   Test Preparation Tips
     * Take a solid high school curriculum
     * Talk with your career/guidance counselor about test requirements,
       deadlines, and fees
     * Become familiar with the test content and format
     * Know what to expect on the test day
     * Talk with your career/guidance counselor about the possibility of
       taking practice tests and request test-preparation materials
     * Get plenty of sleep the night before the test
     * Eat a healthy, light breakfast the morning of the test
     * Be confident in your ability to do well
     * Be prepared to work hard

   Test-taking Strategies
     * Pace yourself
     * Read the directions for the test carefully
     * Answer easy questions first
     * Review your work
     * Be precise in marking your answer sheet
     * Erase completely
     * Remain calm -- remember, test scores are only ONE factor used for
       college admissions and scholarship decisions

   Back to Top

   Requesting Information from Colleges

   If you are unable to find information and materials regarding a
   particular college from your career/guidance counselor or on the World
   Wide Web, send a written request to the school. Below is a sample
   letter that can be used to request:
     * general information
     * application forms and
     * a campus visit

   Your Address
   City, State, ZIP Code
   Date


   Office of Admissions
   Name of College
   Street Address
   City, State, ZIP Code

   Dear Admission Representative:

   I am a student at (name of high school) and will graduate in (month,
   year).

   Please send me an application for admission and information about your
   institution - a general information bulletin, college costs, and
   program descriptions. I am considering (name of program) as my major
   field of study.

   My parents and I also want to investigate all possible sources of
   financial assistance. Please send us an application form, instructions
   regarding how and when to apply and any other information that might be
   helpful.

   I am interested in visiting your campus, taking a tour and meeting with
   an Admission Counselor. I would also like to meet with an advisor in
   (name of department), if possible. Please advise me of a time on
   (month, day) that would be convenient.

   Thank you.

   Sincerely,

   (Your signature)
   Your name

   back to top

   Paying for College

   There are a lot of assumptions about the cost of college. Most people
   believe that college is too expensive and out of their reach, but the
   truth is, college can be very affordable. With appropriate planning and
   the types of financial assistance available to students, college can be
   a reality for Missouri families.

   Here are some important steps for financial preparation for college:
    1. Save: Saving money is the best way to prepare for meeting the costs
       of college. Set money aside each month, starting now, to build a
       college fund. The MO$T (Missouri Saving for Tuition) program is a
       great way to save money for college, while taking advantage of tax
       benefits. Think about what institution you'd like to attend, how
       much that institution might cost, and how much you can afford to
       save. The earlier you begin saving, the smaller the amount you will
       have to set aside each month.
    2. Apply for financial assistance. Any student can apply for federal,
       state, and other student financial assistance to help pay for
       college. All students seeking need-based student financial
       assistance must first complete the Free Application for Federal
       Student Aid (called the FAFSA). The FAFSA is a federal standardized
       form that is used to determine the student's expected family
       contribution (EFC). Colleges then use the EFC to calculate a
       student's eligibility for financial assistance.

   What is financial assistance?

   Grants: Assistance usually based on financial need that does not have
   to be repaid.

   Scholarships: Assistance that does not have to be repaid, usually
   awarded for outstanding academic achievement, ability, or talent.

   Work-study: Assistance that enables students to earn a portion of their
   college costs through part-time employment on a college campus.

   Loans: Money borrowed that must be repaid with interest; student
   borrowers must repay their loans even if they do not complete or are
   dissatisfied with, their education.

   back to top

   GEAR UP

   Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR
   UP) is one of the most exciting programs to emerge from the 1998
   Reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. GEAR UP programs provide
   early college preparation and awareness activities to participating
   students through comprehensive mentoring, counseling, outreach, and
   other supportive services. These activities promote equal access to
   educational excellence through partnership efforts on behalf of
   low-income, underrepresented students. These activities ensure that
   targeted students have access to rigorous courses that prepare them for
   postsecondary education. It is important that all Missouri students
   develop a solid academic foundation for college through challenging
   courses, well prepared teachers and modern learning tools.

   There are two kinds of grants available through the GEAR UP program:
   State Grants and Partnership Grants.

   State Grants support awards to states to provide early college
   awareness activities, information on affording college including
   financial assistance and improved academic support through mentoring,
   counseling, outreach, supportive services, and scholarships.

   Partnership Grants support multi-year grants to locally designed
   partnerships among colleges and low-income middle schools, plus at
   least two other partners. Partners may include community organizations,
   business, religious groups, college student organizations, parent
   groups, and State and local agencies. These grants will increase
   college-going rates among low-income youth through comprehensive
   mentoring, counseling, and outreach and supportive services for
   participating students.

   GEAR UP Missouri (State Grant):
   In federal fiscal year 2000, Missouri was one of seven states to
   receive a State GEAR UP Grant. The Missouri Coordinating Board for
   Higher Education (CBHE) has been designated the "Lead Agency" for the
   Missouri State GEAR UP Grant.

   GEAR UP Missouri is a statewide project that will utilize a cohort
   model with 20 middle schools to serve more than 3,000 sixth and seventh
   grade students. For most selected school districts, the college
   attendance rates are less than 15 percent. The GEAR UP Missouri project
   includes interventions, management, and implementation plans that are
   based on the belief that all students can attend college or
   postsecondary training.

   Missouri's Partnership Grants:
   MOSTARS is a partner and serves on the Executive/Advisory boards of all
   four of Missouri's GEAR UP partnership grants. As a partner in each of
   the projects, MOSTARS has also agreed to provide seminars and workshops
   to students and parents on early awareness information about college
   and financial assistance. This year, MOSTARS has provided early college
   awareness activities and its first college preparation seminar for the
   partnerships.

   GEAR UP, INC (In Gear for Careers)
   University of Missouri-St. Louis

   Partners Include:
   University of Missouri-St. Louis Better Family Life St. Louis Public
   School District
   Webster University Urban League of St. Louis Wellston School District
   Harris-Stowe State College St. Louis Science Center Normandy School
   District
   St. Louis Community College MOSTARS Maplewood-Richmond Hgts.

   Schools Served:
   Northwest, Stowe, and Bishops Middle Schools
   Maplewood-Richmond Heights and Normandy Middle Schools

   Project SHIFT (Soaring Heights and Identifying Future Talents)
   University of Missouri-Kansas City

   Partners Include:
   University of Missouri-Kansas City YMCA of Greater Kansas City
   Kansas City School District        MOSTARS
   Gateway Computers                  MASFAP
   Youth Friends

   Schools Served:
   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
   Middle African Centered School

   REACH PROJECT (Raising Every African-American Child Higher)
   University of Missouri-Columbia

   Partners Include:
   University of Missouri-Columbia Morning Star Development Corporation
   Kansas City School District     MO Division of Vocational Rehabilitation
   MOSTARS

   Schools Served:
   Central Middle School (Kansas City)

   BHP GEAR-UP (Boot-heel Partnership GEAR-UP)
   Southeast Missouri State University

   Partners Include:
   Southeast Missouri State University Charleston School District No. 1
   Caruthersville Public Schools       North Pemiscot R-1 School District
   Pemiscot County Initiative Network  Susanna Wesley Family Learning
                                       Center
   MOSTARS

   Schools Served:
   Caruthersville Middle and High Schools
   Charleston Middle and High Schools
   North Pemiscot Middle and High School

   GEAR UP Update
   Presently, there are 28 State GEAR UP Grants nationwide. The federal
   GEAR UP project is funded at $295 million for federal fiscal year 2001.
   There will be another opportunity for states and partnerships to apply
   for funding; therefore, the education community will be able to reform
   more of the nation's schools and prepare more students, academically
   and financially, to enter and succeed in postsecondary education.

   back to top

   About MOSTARS Early Awareness and Outreach Division

   Our Mission and Goal
   The mission of MOSTARS' early awareness and outreach division is to
   increase attendance rated and learning success in higher education,
   particularly among underrepresented and low-income student populations.
   The division also addresses student loan default prevention and
   money/debt management activities.

   The early awareness and outreach division plans to achieve its goals by
   distributing postsecondary and early awareness information and
   assisting educational institutions in initiating student support
   programs and activities.

   Our Partners
     * Federal TRIO Programs such as Upward Bound, Educational Talent
       Search, and the Educational Opportunity Centers
     * Missouri WINS programs
     * Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
     * ACT
     * Missouri postsecondary institutions
     * Heartland's Alliance for Minority Participation (HAMP)
     * GEAR UP Partnerships

   Contact Us:
   You can reach the early awareness and outreach division through the
   MOSTARS Information Center at (800) 473-6757 or at (573) 751-3940.

   Dr. Richard Presberry, MOSTARS senior associate, early awareness and
   outreach
   Ms. Paula Dawan, early awareness and outreach representative.

   back to top



                               thin banner gif
   Missouri Department of Higher Education, 3515 Amazonas Dr.,  Jefferson
                            City, MO  65109-5717
   Phone: 573-751-2361 Fax: 573-751-6635 MOSTARS Information Center: (800)
                                  473-6757
          Technical questions about the Web site please contact us.

   This page was last updated Fri, 11 Jan 2002 14:43:05
