http://www.adr.noaa.gov/baker.html

   [logo.gif] [spacer.gif]
                           [insidehead.gif]
                           [beigedot.gif]
                                [baker.gif]


   ADR Q & A
   Dr. Baker's Memo
   Mediation Process
   Request for Mediation
   Preparing for Mediation
   Definitions
   Feedback form
   Contact Us
   Other Resources
   Home
   [spacer.gif]



                                                               [memo_ur.gif]

     TO: ALL NOAA EMPLOYEES

     FROM: D. James Baker

     SUBJECT: Alternative Dispute Resolution

     This message is to inform you about the NOAA Alternative Dispute
     Resolution Program, and to encourage you to use it to resolve your
     workplace disputes.

     I recognize that each of you is committed to making valuable
     contributions to the important programs of NOAA. However, as in any
     workplace, from time to time you may have differences and disagreements
     with your fellow workers, with your supervisor, or with people you
     manage or supervise. Most of these disputes can be worked through
     quickly between people by simply talking them through.

     When that fails to resolve the issue, employees have avenues that
     protect their rights and management may take actions to correct
     unacceptable behavior or poor performance. For employees both the EEO
     process and agency or negotiated grievance procedures are available.
     From management's perspective, progressive disciplinary or
     performance-based actions can be used. While these processes can be
     used, they have proven to be cumbersome, costly, and very
     time-consuming. In fact, frequently these processes fail to resolve the
     issues which gave rise to the dispute in the first place.

     In NOAA, we now have an alternative to these traditional processes. Our
     Alternative Dispute Resolution Program can help you resolve your
     disputes quickly and to everyone's mutual satisfaction. Mediation, the
     method used in NOAA's ADR Program, is defined as a voluntary process in
     which an impartial, qualified person helps parties in a dispute to
     reach an informed and mutually acceptable settlement of the issues.
     Mediation has been shown to be from 60 - 80% effective in helping reach
     durable settlements of workplace conflicts.

     If you elect to go to mediation, and the other party agrees to mediate,
     you do not lose any of your rights in any complaint or grievance forum
     which you have timely elected. If the mediation is successful, and you
     reach settlement, that settlement is completely enforceable. If the
     mediation is not successful, you simply return to the appropriate
     process at whichever point in that process you elected mediation.

     To find out whether mediation could be used to help you resolve your
     dispute, you may contact the Office of Civil Rights at 301-713-0500,
     your servicing Human Resources Advisor, or the ADR Program Office at
     206-526-6171. For more information about mediation or other services
     offered by the Program, contact the ADR Program Manager at
     ADR@noaa.gov. All calls are confidential.

     I strongly encourage each of you to use this resource when you reach an
     impasse in a workplace dispute. The early resolution of conflicts by
     the disputants themselves will add to our capacity to serve the
     American public.

     [memo_sig.gif]

                                                               [memo_lr.gif]



   Return to top

   [beigedot.gif]

      ADR Q & A · Dr. Baker's Memo · Mediation Process · Request for
                    Mediation · Preparing for Mediation
  ADR Definitions · Feedback Form · Contact Us · Other Resources · Home

                     NOAA Alternative Dispute Resolution
                Telephone: 206-526-6171 · Fax: 206-527-0335
       7600 Sand Point Way, WC-2, BIN C15700 · Seattle, WA 98115-0070
                         © 2000, NOAA, ADR@noaa.gov
