http://gnarly.lanl.gov/History/CFD_paper_6_24_96.pdf

   LA- - U R 96-1426 Los Alamos National Laboratory is operated by the
   University of California for the United States Department of Energy
   under contract W-7405-ENG-36 TITLE: THE LEGACY AND FUTURE OF CFD AT LOS
   ALAMOS AUTHOR(S): Norman L. Johnson, T-3 SUBMITTED TO: 1996 Canadian
   CFD Conference, Ottawa, Canada, June 34, 1996 By acceptance of this
   article, the publisher recognizes that the U.S. Government retains a
   nonexclusive, royalty-free license to publish or reproduce the
   published form of this contribution, or to allow others to do so, for
   U.S. Government purposes. The Los Alamos National Laboratory requests
   that the publisher identify this article as work performed under the
   auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy. Los Alamos Los Alamos
   National Laboratory Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545 FORM NO. 836 R4 ST.
   NO. 2629 5/81 THE LEGACY AND FUTURE OF CFD AT LOS ALAMOS Norman L.
   Johnson Group T-3, Theoretical Division Los Alamos National Laboratory
   Los Alamos, NM 87545 NLJ@LANL.GOV Abstract more information as
   warranted. The first resource for further information is to explore our
   Web page The early history is presented of the prolific
   (http://gnarly.lanl.gov/home.html), which provides development of CFD
   methods in the Fluid Dynamics contact information for each area of
   application. Group (T-3) at Los Alamos National Laboratory in the years
   from 1958 to the late 1960's. Many of the Although this review focuses
   on the work from T-3, currently used numerical methods PIC, MAC, there
   is significant work that has been done over the
   vorticity-stream-function, ICE, ALE methods and the years in other
   parts of the laboratory, some in k- method for turbulence originated
   during this collaboration with T-3, or, more often, as independent
   time. The rest of the paper summarizes the current work. The author
   makes apologies for the myopic research in T-3 for CFD, turbulence and
   solids view of CFD at Los Alamos and is the first to modeling. The
   research areas include reactive flows, recognize the direct
   contributions of colleagues in multimaterial flows, multiphase flows
   and flows with other parts of the Laboratory and the contribution of
   spatial discontinuities. Also summarized are modern the Laboratory as a
   whole, in providing one of the particle methods and techniques
   developed for large premiere research facilities in the world. scale
   computing on massively parallel computing platforms and distributed
   processors. 2. Early History of Group T-3 (1958-68) In the early years
   of the Fluid Dynamics Group (T-3) 1. Introduction in the Theoretical
   Division at Los Alamos, the problems of interest were multiple
   materials under At times in history there often comes together a high
   compression, in which solids behave like fluids. unique confluence of
   people and events that can The standard approach in the 50's to
   numerical change the development of history. In many ways the modeling
   of deforming materials was a Lagrangian early development of
   Computational Fluid Dynamics treatment with staggered primary variables
   (CFD) methods at Los Alamos National Laboratory, (thermodynamic
   variables at the element centers, and in particular in the Fluid
   Dynamics Group, in the kinematic variables at the vertices or nodes).
   The late 50's and through the 60's was such an example  Lagrangian
   method satisfied the need for an accurate a rare integration of unique
   computational resources, interfacial treatment, but severely suffered
   from mesh people and applications. Arguably, a critical factor
   distortions under the large shearing deformations and was the creation
   of the world's largest computer instabilities. Typical simulations at
   the time had to resources for programs of national interest that were
   be halted when the mesh entangled and painstakingly available for
   exploration into alternative CFD "remeshed" by hand, and then the
   simulation methods. But equally, the presence of Francis H. continued.
   Harlow with his prolific creativity, which continues to this day, and
   his colleagues were also a rare PIC: Particle-In-Cell occurrence. Even
   though the laboratory programs at the time needed robust simulations of
   multimaterial, In this time of great need, the PIC method was
   compressible flows, all applications were fair game proposed and
   developed by Harlow in 1957 [42][46]. because of the almost total
   absence of CFD codes at The original PIC code used mass particles that
   carried the time. material position, mass, and species information on a
   two-dimensional (2D), uniform, Eulerian mesh. It The purpose of the
   present work is two-fold: to treated transient, compressible flows of
   multiple review the early days of the development of CFD materials with
   no restrictions on interfacial methods in the Fluid Dynamics group
   (T-3) at Los deformation. It was also the first of the T-3 codes that
   Alamos National Laboratory (at that time called Los used the technique
   of solution phases: the division of Alamos Scientific Laboratory and
   hereafter referred to the computational cycle into a Lagrangian and as
   Los Alamos) and to summarize the current research Eulerian (remap or
   rezone) phase. Fig. 1-1 shows a in T-3, as an invitation to the reader
   to inquire about result from an early PIC calculation. A large number
   of particles per element  16 was found to be best in variety of
   applications, including incompressible, 2D  were required to reduce the
   inherent fluctuations free-surface flows. of the method (this is
   discussed in more detail in the FLIP section 3.3 below) and,
   consequently, the The rest of this introduction focuses on the specific
   method was memory intensive, particularly for the techniques that were
   developed; these were developed computers of the time (IBM 701 and
   704). While the with a common approach, a certain style that was PIC
   scheme for fluid flow had limited application characteristic to T-3.
   The techniques were developed outside of Los Alamos except for plasma
   under the collaboration of typically a programmer and simulations, the
   T-3 PIC method did find significant a theorist. The involvement of a
   skilled programmer use in the Soviet Union as the "Large Particle" was
   essential, because each code pushed the limits of technique. The PIC
   method has had a major the current computer capability. The necessity
   for resurgence almost three decades later in the large computers
   precluded much of the use of this development of FLIP (see section
   3.3). work outside of Los Alamos in the early 60's. Computer codes for
   each new method were written from scratch and were not intended to be
   exported. But, as the 60's progressed, the T-3 techniques were widely
   applied across the country. The development of codes for use outside
   Los Alamos came much later. FLIC: Fluid-In-Cell To address the particle
   fluctuations and the large memory requirements of the PIC method, the
   FLIC method was developed under Harlow's direction by Gentry, Martin
   and Daly [45]. The FLIC method treated compressible flows of a single
   material on a 2D, uniform, Eulerian mesh, in which all the state
   variables were co-located at the cell center. The technique fluxed
   material across cell boundaries in the now-typical Eulerian fashion.
   Not surprisingly, the method suffered from stability problems from
   poorly coupled momentum and pressure fields, which plagued the
   co-located variable methods for the next three decades. The method
   included the capability to treat arbitrarily shaped objects by using a
   piece-wise Fig. 1-1. A shock passing though two gases with a linear
   representation of a solid boundary in the regular stepped interface,
   with a density ratio of 2 (the lighter mesh  a precursor to the later
   fractional area/volume gas is shown) [47]. The PIC particles and mesh
   are formulation. not illustrated. Vorticity and Stream Function Method
   Formation and Style of Group T-3 Fromm's work was the first and only
   foray away The success of the PIC method in solving the truly from
   primitive variables in T-3 of velocity and unsolvable problems of the
   time made the idea of pressure, and developed the first treatment of
   strongly forming a dedicated fluid dynamics group attractive.
   contorting incompressible flows in the world: the With the support of
   Stan Ulam and Conrad vorticity-stream-function method for 2D,
   transient, Longmire, the Fluid Dynamics Group (T-3) was incompressible
   flows in 1963 by Fromm and Harlow created in the Theoretical Division
   in 1958, with [44]. Fromm's ideas of a "Phase-Error Correction" Harlow
   as its first Group Leader. Harlow remained method anticipated
   monotonicity-preserving methods group leader until 1973. T-3 started
   out with seven currently popular. The origin of this idea has been core
   members, and grew to 13 members by 1963, largely forgotten. 15 members
   by 1970, and 25 by 1990. Although the group was largely funded by
   weapons research money MAC: Marker-And-Cell in these early years and
   weapons applications remained the main area of application, the
   atmosphere of the late fifties and sixties was one of free To treat
   incompressible, free surface flows, the MAC exploration of CFD
   techniques for solving a wide method was developed by Harlow and Welch
   [50] as a variation of the PIC method but treating applications that
   extended beyond those addressed by the vorticity stream-function
   method. The MAC method was the KIVA lineage of codes [85], discussed in
   the next first successful technique for incompressible flows. section.
   Particles were used as markers to locate the material in the mesh and,
   consequently, to define the location LINC (Lagrangian-Incompressible)
   and of the free-surface. The MAC method had the ALE
   (Arbitrary-Lagrangian-Eulerian) advantage of a more compact finite
   difference stencil and tight coupling between the pressure and velocity
   In 1967 the first 2D Lagrangian method for fields. To treat the fluid
   incompressibility, a solution incompressible flows was developed in the
   LINC to the Poisson equation for the pressure was used.
   (Lagrangian-INCompressible) code. The approach was This was in contrast
   to later methods that solved the based on restricting the movement of
   the vertices coupled velocity-pressure equations, as discussed by such
   that the volume remained constant and, thus, Viecelli [97]. Although
   the solution of Poisson's was not based upon a global solution to the
   zero equation was numerically simple, the specification of divergence
   of the velocity field, as in previous the velocity boundary conditions
   were not incompressible methods. While the LINC code was
   straightforward. There was some controversy at the no more successful
   in treating flows than other multi- time about the relative stability
   of the MAC method, dimensional Lagrangian codes, its formulation led to
   and this was resolved in the now-classic paper by Hirt the staggered
   mesh approach to coupling of the [58], in which he showed that the MAC
   method is pressure and velocity fields in the MAC method and unstable
   with centered momentum advection unless was used to explore
   elastic-plastic materials and the viscosity is sufficiently large. This
   work was the surface tension effects. The most important precursor of
   the modern "truncation error subtraction" consequence of the LINC code
   was the observation analysis. This controversy illustrated the T-3 that
   mesh rezoning was needed for most problems. approach: the development
   was always on the The second generation version of LINC, physics, with
   limited application of mathematical consequently, included an ALE
   capability. This first analysis of, e.g., convergence and stability
   properties. application of the ALE formalism paved the future for The
   MAC method is still in use and has profited from all the later ALE
   codes [16] [54], including SALE [9] the added efficiency of modern
   conjugate gradient and its progeny. This version of LINC was also the
   schemes for solving the Poisson equation. first application of the
   Finite Volume method, the use of integral formulation of the
   conservation ICE: Implicit-Continuous-Fluid-Eulerian equations, the
   close cousin to the finite element methods. The Finite Volume method
   enabled Also in the late 60's, an "all-speed" code was straightforward
   treatment of nonorthogonal and three- developed, and called the ICE
   method [8][53]. The dimensional meshes. ICE method was the first
   approach that removed the Courant stability limitation based on the
   fluid sound Turbulence and the k-epsilon Model speed. Originally, the
   method had a fully nonlinear implicitness, which is often replaced by a
   modern Harlow and his colleagues also contributed to the linear
   implicitness  a more simple approach, but early numerical modeling of
   turbulence and, in with the same stability properties in the limit of
   zero particular, by the postulation of the now ubiquitous Mach number.
   In the limit of zero Mach number, the k- model in the 60's [51][52].
   The history of the ICE scheme reduces to the MAC scheme. early
   turbulence modeling in T-3 is included with the current modeling in
   section 3.5 below, in order to SOLA and Reactive Flow Codes present a
   unified treatment of this complex topic. The MAC method was the basis
   of the later "particle- PAF (Particle-and-Force) and Free- less"
   techniques for compressible and incompressible Lagrangian Methods flows
   embodied in the SOLA family of codes by Hirt, Nichols and others in the
   early 70's that were the first One of the least known CFD methods
   outside of T-3, T-3 codes distributed internationally. These codes but
   one that was the precursor to the "Free- included extensions to two
   immiscible fluids in the Lagrangian" methods, including the Smooth
   Particle SOLA-VOF code [55][57], the first broadly and the Lattice Gas
   methods, is the PAF method, first distributed T-3 code in its source
   form. One member documented in 1961 [48]. It was the first of the of
   SOLA family, the SOLA-DF code, included a "mesh-less" (in the sense
   that computational points multiphase treatment with multiple velocity
   fields were not associated with any mesh) and variable [56][86][96].
   About the same time, the first reactive connectivity methods (in the
   sense that the flow code, RICE, was developed by Rivard and Butler
   "connectivity" changed during the simulation). It and others [27][87],
   which evolved into the most combined the lack of numerical diffusion of
   the widely used of the T-3 codes, APACHE-CONCHAS- Lagrangian methods
   with the robustness of the Eulerian methods, but without the underlying
   mesh Lattice Gas methods, which take the approach of and the large
   memory requirements of the PIC reducing the unrestricted particle
   motion to moving method. One way to view the method is as a on a
   regular lattice, tried to relate the fluctuations to molecular dynamics
   approach, but applied on a thermal motion and averaged the solution
   over a large macroscopic scale. Computational points have a volume to
   eliminate the fluctuations in the constant mass and carry all state
   information; they do "macroscopic" flow field. not possess any moment
   of inertia, i.e., they are point masses. The particles represent
   parcels of fluid Harlow has often said that 1968 was the last year that
   that interact with fluid-like forces that are chosen to he could keep
   up with all the CFD developments duplicate the equation of state and
   viscous effects around the world, so much had the entire field grown
   [49]. At any time, the particles interact with only after that time. By
   a similar measure, the CFD their neighbors. The time evolution of the
   particles is methods developed in the 70's and 80's in T-3 were just
   the solution of Newton's equations for a multi- more application-driven
   with close collaboration with bodied system. the end users and less of
   explorations in CFD  an era had passed. In 1965, a summary report was
   published [34] and comparison between fairly complex experimental data
   3. Summary of Current Research and simulations were made. The PAF
   technique was abandoned because of the inherent noise in the flow There
   are no obvious choices in the division of the field as particles
   reconnected with different neighbors current research in T-3. Typically
   a project is during shear flows. The PAF method also suffered
   characterized by a unique and well-developed from slowness of the
   calculation of the nearest capability or approach, and then additional
   features are neighbors, one which scales with N2, where N is the
   borrowed from other projects. Fig. 3 pictorially number of particles,
   if no acceleration techniques are presents the major physics and
   numerical methods used. Modern methods now have reduced this scaling
   that are of current interest in T-3. Because of the to be linear and
   the approach has become limitation of space, the description of each
   project is computationally attractive again. necessarily brief. We
   encourage the reader to consult our Web page
   (http://gnarly.lanl.gov/home.html) for Not until 1983 were methods
   developed that more information and points of contact. Where minimized
   the fluctuations in the PAF method, such possible, readily available
   journals are cited as that even incompressible flows could be modeled
   references, but when internal Los Alamos reports are [60]. The smooth
   particle methods of recent times cited, no outside publications were
   made. These take a different approach and reduce this difficulty by
   reports are available through the Report Library at averaging over more
   particles, but at the expense of Los Alamos or by contacting the
   author. less compact support and more computations. The Physics Codes
   or Projects Numerical Methods/ Regimes A. Chemistry KIVA & No-Utopia
   (A, B, C, D, E, 1, 3, 8, 11, 12, 13) 1. ALE B. Turbulence Wildfire
   Modeling (A, B, 1, 2, 4) 2. Adaptivity 3. Compressible C. Mixing CFDLIB
   (A, B, C, D, G, I, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12) 4. Incompressible 5.
   Multi-field D. Interfacial phenomena FLIP (A, E, F, G, I, 1, 2, 3, 7,
   8, 9) Granular Flow (D, F, H, 7, 9, 11) 6. Interface Tracking E. Phase
   Changes 7. Particles TELLURIDE metal casting (B, C, D, E, F, H, 1, 4,
   6, 8, 13) 8. Implicit F. Solid deformation Global Modeling (B, C, E, F,
   H, 4, 12) 9. Lagrangian G. Electromagnetic Mantle Modeling (E, F, 4, 8,
   10, 12) 10. Finite Elements 11. Variable Connectivity H.
   Visco-elasticity Composites (D, F, H) 12. Block Structured Plasticity
   (F, H, 8, 9, 10) I. Radiation 13. Unstructured Turbulence (A, B, C, D,
   3, 4, 5) Fig. 3. The physics and numerical approaches of current
   interest in T-3. 3.1 Reactive Flow and Combustion combustion that works
   in conjunction with the k- Research turbulence model and a soot model
   are provided. KIVA Family of Codes for Combustion Engines Reactive flow
   and combustion modeling of fully miscible species is the area of
   broadest use of simulation codes from T-3 and possibly from Los Alamos.
   Currently these are represented by the KIVA family of codes [10][11].
   The KIVA codes are in worldwide use by industry, academia, and
   government laboratories and have a sufficient following that a yearly
   International KIVA Users Meeting convenes to present papers and discuss
   current applications and extension to the base codes. Their popularity
   as research tools [61], primarily because of the availability of the
   source code, is exemplified by the twenty-one research papers that use
   the KIVA codes at the 1996 SAE Spring Congress. Although the intended
   applications are to flow and combustion modeling in spark-ignition and
   diesel engines and gas turbines (as in Fig. 3.1-1), the extreme
   versatility and range of features have made KIVA programs attractive to
   a variety of non-engine applications as well. These range in scale from
   proposed 500-foot-high convection towers with water sprays that clean
   and cool the air in polluted urban areas, down to modeling silicon
   dioxide condensation in high pressure Fig. 3.1-1. A color visualization
   of the temperature oxidation chambers used in the production of field
   during the inlet flow in a hydrogen-fueled engine microchip wafers.
   Other applications have included simulated with KIVA-3 [62][90] . The
   open intake valve is on the right; the closed exhaust port is on the
   the analysis of flows in automotive catalytic left. The particles are
   used only to simulate the flow converters, power plant smokestack
   cleaning, and are colored according to the temperature of the pyrolytic
   treatment of biomass, design of fire gas. The cold intake air (blue) is
   shown compressing suppression systems, pulsed detonation propulsion the
   residual hot combustion gases (red). systems, stationary burners,
   aerosol dispersion, and design of heating, ventilation, and air
   conditioning Parallel with the effort to continue the maturation of
   systems. A complete history of KIVA as a paradigm KIVA-3, future
   versions of KIVA are being of technology transfer from the government
   developed. These codes use largely the same numerics laboratories to
   industry can be found in [12]. as KIVA-3 but address the requirements
   of parallel computer architectures and requirements of modern The
   current version of KIVA-3 uses an unstructured mesh generation codes.
   KIVA-F90 is a complete mesh of hexahedrons that are groups of logical
   blocks rewrite of KIVA-II using Fortran 90 and executes on of mesh and
   an all-speed ALE formulation from the workstations, massively parallel
   architectures, and SALE heritage. Because of the ability to model
   supercomputers without modification. KIVA-AC, opening and closing of
   ports and valves, connectivity just now under development, is an
   unstructured mesh of the mesh can change during the simulation. This is
   version of KIVA-F90 that will support combinations a unique feature of
   the currently active codes in T-3 of tetrahedrons and hexahedrons.
   (also see CAVEAT-GT below). KIVA is also unique in that it contains a
   Lagrangian particle treatment of liquid spays as originally proposed by
   Dukowicz [36]. N O - U T O P I A : a F u l l y I m p l i c i t , The
   current spray model includes breakup, collisions Unstructured,
   All-Speed Flow Code and evaporation, coupled with the turbulent gas
   field. This model is inherently stochastic, in contrast to the This is
   a new reactive flow algorithm under deterministic nature of all other
   T-3 CFD codes, and development in T-3 for simulating a variety of only
   produces an average solution for a large number hydrodynamic phenomena
   ranging from low-speed of particles. The transport and chemistry
   equations incompressible flows to shock-wave hydrodynamics. can treat
   an arbitrary number of species and reactions, In-cylinder combustion of
   gasoline and diesel engines, both kinetic and equilibrium.
   Mixing-controlled external vehicle aerodynamics, underhood cooling,
   vehicle air conditioning, and high-velocity impact immiscible materials
   are presented in the sections on simulations are some of the
   applications where this modern particle methods (3.3) and the section
   on algorithm may be usefully employed. This is the first modeling
   discontinuities (3.4). The division is three-dimensional T-3 algorithm
   to have a fully somewhat arbitrary, because some of the methods
   implicit and coupled solution to the Navier-Stokes presented easily
   treat both regimes. equations, thereby eliminating the traditional
   separation of the Lagrangian and rezone phases. The CFDLIB Family of
   Codes: Multimaterial- flow solver employs an implicit finite-volume
   Multiphase Applications The numerical origins technique that performs
   surface integrals in parallel of the CFDLIB collection of codes began
   with a loops over connections associated with the two thesis study [65]
   in T-3 to find a stable, well-coupled, terminus nodes [79]. A
   continuous transition between Finite Volume integration scheme for
   incompressible explicit and implicit advection is employed that is flow
   with co-located primitive variables. Two second-order accurate for
   Courant numbers less than possibilities emerged [63][64], neither of
   which unity and is monotone and unconditionally stable (a seemed fully
   satisfactory. This was because both 3D extension of the scheme of
   Collins, et al. [33]). schemes required solving two Poisson equations
   at Other unique features of the algorithm are an accurate each time
   step, rather than one Poisson solution, as treatment of the diffusion
   terms and an accurate in the original MAC scheme. Nevertheless, these
   gradient limiter for an arbitrary number of nearest schemes both
   represented cell-centered Finite Volume neighbors associated with a
   node. schemes for incompressible flow. Wildfire Code: Crisis Response
   Modeling In quite a different application from reactive flows in
   engines, a current effort is underway in T-3 by Linn and Harlow [76] to
   model accurately the propagation of a forest fire. The ultimate goal is
   to develop a method that is sufficiently accurate but faster than real
   time, in order that it can be used to develop fire management
   strategies during a crisis. With sufficient speed, the model can be
   self-correcting as data is available during a crisis and can evaluate
   many strategies to optimize safety and effectiveness. For the method to
   be sufficiently fast, the description of the propagating fire must be
   fairly coarse, even with modern computers. Hence, the challenge is to
   capture accurately the effect of the expected small scale variations in
   the fire, such as a single burning tree, in a stochastic, global model.
   The techniques that are being used are the same as those used for the
   development of the turbulent transport equations (see the section 3.6
   on Turbulence). In a similar manner, the hope is to find a universality
   in the scaling of the flame behavior such that the mean temperature can
   be related to the local burning temperatures and flame Fig. 3.1-2.
   Temperature fields of a propagating forest distribution. Adaptive
   meshing methods to high fire and plume 122 seconds after an intense
   ignition burning gradients and conformal mapping to terrain 10 m from
   the left boundary. A wind speed of 0.5 are planned features of the
   approach. Fig. 3.1-2 m/s from left-to-right propagates the fire to the
   right. illustrates the results from the current 2D fire propagation
   model. This project is part of an On another front was an internally
   supported project internally funded, laboratory-wide research program
   to to develop a computer code, CAVEAT, for two and develop simulation
   tools for crisis management. three dimensional, compressible flows with
   resolved material interfaces and large deformation that used co- 3.2
   Modern Multimaterial Methods located primitive variables and an ALE
   split computational cycle. The CAVEAT code [5] in its Even in current
   times, the solution of flows with final incarnation included both a
   Godunov's method large deformation of multiple materials remains a and
   the so-called Total Variation Diminishing (TVD) major area of research
   and development. In this Finite Volume method. Because of CAVEAT's
   section the tools that specialize in the interpenetration versatile
   block structure and highly efficient of materials are presented.
   Methods that treat computational approach, it furnished the basic data
   liquids, relative to a field of solid catalyst grains. structure that
   was ultimately to become CFDLIB. Solid catalyst grains circulate in a
   flow loop One of the goals of the research project was to consisting of
   a cyclone separator with a gas exit. A develop a capability for
   integrating the compressible realistic simulation of the FFB reactor is
   dependent multiphase flow equations, and this effort focused on upon
   the physical models used to represent the effects the TVD schemes,
   because Godunov's method, an of chemical species conversion, physical
   kinetics of explicit scheme, had not yet been applied to phase change,
   granular flow, and multiphase fluid multiphase flows. One of the
   fundamental features of turbulence. The equations that embody these
   physical TVD schemes is the use of space-time centered fluxes models
   are developed using a combination of detailed for advancing a
   cell-centered state vector. When these mathematics, definitive
   laboratory experiments, and fluxes are exactly centered in space and
   time, the physical intuition. The large-scale simulation is a method is
   second-order accurate, and is known as the means of bringing together
   these diverse sets of Lax-Wendroff scheme. The TVD approach was to
   information in order to test the validity of the devise a 'limiter' to
   sense when the state is tending theories, and to provide important
   guidance to the toward new extrema, and to use the limiter to design
   and operation of modern equipment. introduce a first order fluxing in
   such localities. During this development it became clear that classical
   staggered meshes and TVD space-time centered fluxes were two different
   ways of accomplishing the same coupling of the momentum and pressure
   fields. Vapor outlet Hence, the next step was to examine a space-time
   centered fluxing scheme for incompressible flow. What emerged is what
   is now called CCMAC; a cell- centered generalization of the MAC method,
   which requires a single Poisson pressure solution each time step [66].
   Cracked Oil and The CCMAC scheme was the key development that provided
   a common numerical treatment for CFDLIB: Catalyst Riser a collection of
   hydrocodes that are suitable for Reactor compressible flow,
   incompressible flow, multiphase flow of all kinds, magnetohydrodynamic
   forces and multi-fluid solutions, each with their own set of
   conservation equations. The design of each code volume in the library
   is modular, making the Cyclone development of codes for specialized
   applications Separator exceptionally fast. For example, a k- model of
   the Reynolds stress, developed for one code volume, is easily inserted
   into another because of the common data structure among the codes. Oil
   Injection The FLIP approach is now being installed into CFDLIB as an
   option, so one can take full advantage Ports of the nondiffusive
   Lagrangian approach (see section 3.3 on Particle Methods below). With
   the FLIP option, one can simulate the motion of a Lagrangian
   projectile, passing through an Eulerian gas, Regeneration Catalyst
   penetrating a Lagrangian wall, and into an Eulerian point liquid. Fig.
   3.2-1. One time in a simulation of the startup A current area of
   application of CFDLIB is the and operation of a recirculating
   fast-fluidized bed modeling of a reactive flow in multiphase,
   multi-field (FFB) reactor using CFDLIB with multiple fields and
   problems, such as encountered in oil refining, phases. The colors
   reflect the local volume fraction of chemicals manufacturing, metals
   production, and fiber the solid catalyst (red-high, blue-low).
   processing [67]. Fig. 3.2-1 illustrates one time of a full simulation
   of the startup and operation of a There also exist many applications
   [13] that are a recirculating fast-fluidized bed (FFB) reactor. Here,
   the subset of the FFB application, such as the two-phase goal is to
   model the interpenetration of gases and flow in human cardiovascular
   systems, or the dynamics associated with a lifeboat dropped onto the
   automatically maintains a prescribed number of sea from a
   search-and-rescue aircraft [75]. These and particles in each cell of
   the mesh [71]. many other contemporary applications in modern
   technology are addressable by the Los Alamos code The principal
   applications of FLIP have been to library CFDLIB. Some current
   applications include modeling magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) flow in the the
   smelting of iron ore, alumina precipitation, Earth's magnetosphere and
   the Sun's heliosphere [15], combined granular and fiber flow in
   manufacturing, to modeling plasma processing tools [72][73][74], and
   the effects of a near-miss in the performance of and to modeling solids
   mechanics [93][94][95]. The defensive missiles. application to plasma
   processing illustrates the flexibility of the method. Particles model
   the interaction of neutral gas and plasma with electrically active
   elements within a dielectric chamber as in Fig. 3.3 Particle Methods
   3.3-1. The solutions to steady-state problems are then used to
   calculate the motion of electrically active dust FLIP: a Particle
   Approach to Fluids particles to aid in the design of low-contamination
   processing tools. The original application of the FLIP,
   particle-in-cell (PIC) method, was to surface ablation of laser
   targets. In the ablation layer, there is a transition from solid
   densities for which fluid-like equations are valid, to low density
   plasmas, for which kinetic equations are required. Particle-in-cell
   models of the low density plasmas had been successfully used to model
   the complex behavior of the low-density plasmas [43]. The goal of the
   FLIP development was to extend the particle-in-cell method to model
   fluid-like equations so that the entire ablation process could be
   modeled in one code. Despite its special capabilities of PIC for
   following contact discontinuities, it did not give accurate solutions
   in general, because the transfer of information between the particles
   and the underlying grid resulted in numerical diffusion equal to that
   produced by the donor cell method. FLIP reduced this Fig. 3.3-1.
   Discharge in a realistic geometry using numerical diffusion to very low
   levels by limiting the the FLIP code [74]. On the left, the
   electrostatic potential is shown (yellow: 50V, purple: -10V). On
   transfer of information between grid and particles to the right the
   dust density is shown, illustrating how updates [17]. That is, the
   particle data is updated by the geometry of the base can be used to
   design cleaner solutions on the grid rather than replaced. This allows
   plasma reactors. the use of interpolation of arbitrary order, rather
   than the nearest-grid-point interpolation to which PIC was restricted.
   Higher order interpolation not only gives The solid mechanics version
   of FLIP, uses the smoother solutions, but also suppresses the finite-
   "material point" method, is being applied to the study grid-instability
   [20]. of high explosives. The material point method eliminates the need
   for a mixture theory by evaluating FLIP has several important
   advantages over more equation of state and strength models particle by
   generally used methods. The Galilean invariance of particle. Thus, the
   properties of the plastic binder, the FLIP formulation is a distinct
   advantage for explosive granules, and gases that are evolved by the
   rotationally dominated flow problems [18], as is the decomposition of
   the explosive, are each modeled conservation of angular momentum [19].
   The accurately. Their interaction is captured by the Lagrangian
   description provided by the particles also solution of dynamical
   equations on a grid in the usual can be an advantage in chemically
   reacting [83] and way. multiphase flows [92]. A mass-matrix formulation
   reduces numerical dissipation to extremely low levels Currently, a
   three-dimensional version of FLIP is [26]. A disadvantage of FLIP,
   which is apparent in being developed. A new application will be to low-
   adaptively zoned calculations, was eliminated by a gravity flow. A
   higher-order formulation of the particle density control algorithm
   which immersed boundary method [92] is also under development. Granular
   Flow Modeling its evolution, both which can be treated with the
   numerical code and theory. Aside from the application within the CFDLIB
   code (section 3.2), the particle approach has also been 3.4 Modeling of
   Discontinuities in Space applied to one of the least understood, quite
   common flows, that of the flow of granular material. The Modeling
   discontinuities whether material interfaces, knowledge of granular flow
   is also vital to many key phase transitions, shocks or reaction fronts
   have industries, including chemical, material, and been an active area
   of research for T-3. Developing pharmaceutical. Lack of understanding
   of granular robust and computationally-efficient methods of material
   causes serious losses in the US industry. It numerically treating a
   discontinuity has seen is estimated that eighty percent of solid
   processing significant progress over the decades, as in the plants
   encounter problems associated with granular example of shocks, from
   adding numerical or flows. "artificial" viscosity to the development of
   approximate Riemann solutions [37] to efficiently Research on granular
   flow started as early as the last capture shocks in realistic
   materials. In contrast, the century, resulting in many theories
   focusing on the robust and efficient treatment of the multidimensional
   solid-like behavior of the material. Since the 1970s, aspect of
   discontinuities has been an outstanding the kinetic theory of molecular
   dynamics has been challenge and has seen limited progress, despite the
   used to calculate effective stresses for large mean-free- many
   applications in need. For material interfaces, path granular flows. In
   this class of theories, duration the original PIC method, and later
   FLIP, had of particle collision is neglected, and only binary
   robustness, but not the efficiency, particularly in collisions are
   allowed. A systematic approach to three dimensions, or accuracy across
   the interface. The investigate slow, dense flows has not been "front
   tracking" methods have the efficiency, but established. Recently, a
   research effort in T-3 has suffer from extensions to three dimensions
   and from developed an averaged-equation method to derive the lack of
   robustness for topologically complex governing equations for dense
   flows which include discontinuities. In this section, two approaches
   are interparticle contact and multiparticle interactions presented for
   treating discontinuities, an Eulerian [101]. The advantage of the
   averaging method is that approach, represented by TELLURIDE and a the
   closure quantities are directly computable Lagrangian approach
   represented by CAVEAT-GT. integrals. The resulting transport equation
   yields, for example, a viscoelastic model for the ensemble of cohesive
   granular particles. Direct numerical simulations are performed to
   evaluate the assumptions in the theory and to evaluate coefficients,
   similar to the application of direct numerical simulations for
   turbulence and molecular dynamics. Currently, the numerical code is
   used to study the shearing flow of particles coated with a thin layer
   of viscous liquid. With a lubrication assumption, we consider only the
   normal force between particles, which is modeled by a linear spring and
   dashpot in series. The time evolution of this system is found by
   solving a differential equation for each contacting particle pair [98].
   For a simple shear flow, one finding is the formation of shear banding
   in dense, slow flows (see Fig. 3.3-2). The exact nature and physics of
   this is yet to be understood [77] . The averaged-equation method is a
   powerful method in studying granular flows and multiphase flows. An
   Fig. 3.3-2. One time in the simulation of lubricated immediate
   generalization for the granular system is to spheres, undergoing a
   shear flow from left to right, consider the tangential force between
   particles, as showing the formation of a shear band at an average
   occurs in flows of dry, granular materials. The volume fraction (58%).
   At the beginning of the investigation is planned of the diffusion of
   granular simulation, 108 particles are placed randomly with a particles
   by the random fluctuations in the system. A statistically uniform
   distribution in a cube with key issue in understanding the unusual
   behavior of periodic boundaries. granular materials is the effect of
   microstructure and Modern Surface Tension and VOF methods proportional
   to the dimensions of the cell. A complete discussion of the history of
   the development Two significant advancements in modeling of the VOF
   method is available [68]. discontinuities in Eulerian meshes have been
   developed  the robust and efficient treatment of TELLURIDE: A New
   Casting-Simulation surface tension and of spatial discontinuities. The
   Tool robustness of both advancements rely on the ability to neglect the
   complications of modeling a While casting-simulation tools have evolved
   over the discontinuity below a certain spatial resolution - the past
   decade and are already useful in foundry dimension of the computational
   cell. operations, there are many unanswered questions, particularly
   those associated with the effects of the The continuum treatment of
   surface tension [21] microstructural properties. Los Alamos has
   assembled evaluates the curvature of the phase or material a
   laboratory-wide team that is actively working on the discontinuity from
   a continuous field defined by the development of a new
   casting-simulation computer spatial distribution of the phases or
   materials. Hence, code known as TELLURIDE. The ultimate goal is to the
   evaluated surface tension forces are well behaved describe virtually
   every property of the finished and easily calculated for three
   dimensional surfaces, in product in terms of the sequence of casting
   processes comparison to alternative methods. during its formation. The
   current focus is the generation of a basic numerical tool and the
   testing of The approach to modeling spatial discontinuities numerous
   models for representing: mold-filling and follows the tradition of the
   VOF method, and the fluid flow in the presence of liquid-solid phase
   current implementation is largely based on the changes (gas entrapment,
   surface tension effects, original approach developed by Youngs [99].
   The "slushy" flows and turbulent currents); solid-solid Youngs method,
   as applied to flows of materials, phase change and material response:
   (pure metal or constructs a piecewise, linear (or planar in 3D) alloy,
   grain structure, wall pull-away effects, porosity interface in each
   computational cell that reproduces growth, bubbles or hole formation,
   macrosegregation, the orientation and partial volume of a material in
   the residual stress and distortion, and machinability); and cell. The
   reconstructed interface is then used to geometry effects (movable walls
   and gate and riser transport preferentially the material through the
   mesh. design). For 3D, Youngs [100] decoupled the evaluation of the
   normal of the interface from locating the interface TELLURIDE uses
   Finite Volume methods with within the computational cell, thereby
   making the primitive variables co-located at cell centers on an
   three-dimensional solution tractable. unstructured hexahedral mesh and
   is second-order accurate in time and space. The code can execute on The
   source of the robustness of the VOF method is any modern computing
   platform having a Fortran-90 that the discontinuity, or interface in
   Youngs compiler, ranging from PCs and single workstations application,
   is "reconstructed" at each time increment to symmetric multi-processor
   workstations, in the simulation. By discarding the prior spatial
   workstation clusters, and massively parallel information and
   constructing the discontinuity based platforms. Efficient
   parallelization results from on the new, averaged scalar information,
   the spatial explicit message passing through the use of a new
   complexity of discontinuity is limited to the mesh parallel
   gather-scatter library (PGSLIB) based on the resolution. The
   contribution of T-3 to the method message passing interface (MPI)
   standard. was to extend Youngs method of interface Parallelization
   decreases execution time and, more reconstruction on orthogonal, 2-D
   and 3-D meshes to importantly, allows the analyst to perform 2-D,
   non-orthogonal and curvilinear meshes by simulations with higher
   resolution by taking Johnson and Zemach in the CAVEAT code [5] and
   advantage of the larger memory on massively parallel later to 3-D,
   non-orthogonal meshes by Kothe, platforms. Zemach and Chaumeazea [69].
   The implementation in CAVEAT, and later in CFDLIB, had the unique Some
   of the current capabilities of TELLURIDE are advantage that the
   material interface could be initially illustrated in Fig. 3.3-1, which
   display the cooling described in an accurate Lagrangian manner [81] and
   and solidification of an aluminum-copper alloy part in then could
   selectively be converted to a VOF a mold that has already been filled
   and is at a uniform, treatment as the local mesh along the interface
   initial temperature of 920°K. The underlying mesh of became distorted.
   The ability to do reconstruction in 5322 hexahedral cells was provided
   by Alcoa in a non-orthogonal cells also enables mesh adaptivity to
   standard solids modeling format. The part is cooled minimize the volume
   of the cells that contain from the bottom by imposing a 750°K
   temperature. discontinuities, and thereby, significantly reducing the
   All other surfaces are perfectly insulated. At the errors in the VOF
   approximations, which are specified copper concentration, the cooling
   process includes a temperature range of 99°K over which the gained from
   the earlier CAVEAT family of codes and liquid and solid can coexist in
   equilibrium and the from the Free Lagrangian efforts at Los Alamos. The
   components of the alloy can migrate. Detailed numerical method was
   based on CAVEAT [5], but a information on propagation and location of
   the 2D mesh of arbitrarily shaped polygons was used solidification
   front aids in the design and optimization with piecewise-linear
   material interfaces. The of risers  reservoirs of excess molten alloy
   that seep approach included a general rezone capability that in the
   part as it cools. The cooling-rate data generated allowed the
   simulation to proceed in a fully by this simulation form a basis for
   providing insight Lagrangian manner until a mesh distortion criterion
   into the final microstructure of the part. In other was exceeded and
   then an entirely new mesh, which TELLURIDE simulations that include the
   injection preserved the material interfaces in a "near process
   following the progress of the free interface Lagrangian" fashion, was
   generated and then used using the above-mentioned surface tension and
   VOF until the next rezone was necessary. In contrast to the techniques,
   the initial thermal state and alloy restrictions of a structured mesh,
   the general topology distribution are found to be more complex than in
   mesh can be chosen to have near ideal cell geometry, this idealized
   experiment. a regular hexagon, for minimizing numerical inaccuracies
   due to cell distortion. Because of the difficulty of a general rezone
   on a polyhedron mesh in 3D, a 3D version of the code was not
   contemplated. 3.5 Simulations on Parallel Platforms Throughout the
   history of T-3, CFD code developments have typically saturated the
   capabilities of existing platforms. Even so, the advent of the
   massively parallel platforms in the late 80's yielded a quantum
   increase in speed and, even more importantly, in memory. Entire classes
   of problems were possible that could not even be considered earlier.
   And, because of the complexity of programming on these platforms, more
   simple CFD techniques, particularly Eulerian methods, saw a reemergence
   in popularity. For example, relatively simple Eulerian codes with
   orthogonal meshes using the VOF method described in the last section
   quickly Fig. 3.3-1. The liquid volume fraction (red - high, displaced
   the more complex ALE codes, such as blue -low) for the cooling of a
   molded, alloy part. As CAVEAT, in popularity. Now that improvements in
   heat is extracted from the molten part from below and programming
   tools, such as Fortran-90, and libraries solidifies, the region of
   solid/liquid mixture of message passing routines are widely available
   for (yellow/green) moves upward. almost all platforms, the complexity
   of the CFD method is becoming less important and a greater CAVEAT-GT: a
   General Topology ALE variety of methods are being used on all
   platforms. method As a point of reference, earlier parallel computing
   In contrast to the method presented in the last section strategies in
   T-3 focused on data parallel (SIMD) for modeling discontinuities on
   Eulerian meshes, an machines in which the many processors compute in
   alternative approach is to track the discontinuity, lockstep. It was on
   these machines, such as Thinking resolving the distortions of the
   surface to some Machines CM-200 and the CM-5, that the more arbitrary
   resolution. A development effort was simple CFD approaches excel.
   Later, the experience undertaken in the mid 80's to develop a general
   in T-3 shifted towards explicit message passing topology ALE code that
   could treat an arbitrary (SPMD, MIMD) machines in which the processors
   distortion of material interfaces by refining the mesh can execute
   different instructions and rely on along the Lagrangian description of
   the interface. All coordinated exchange of information. This approach
   prior T-3 ALE codes had been based on structured has the advantage of
   ease of transport to a variety of meshes, which limited the degree of
   distortion. It was machines, including CM-5, nCUBE2, Cray T3D, for this
   capability that the VOF methods were Paragon, and, most significantly,
   clusters of developed for non-orthogonal meshes, as discussed in
   workstations. While specialized supercomputers will the last section.
   The resulting code, CAVEAT-GT continue to have important uses in the
   future, the area [6][39], was a culmination of all the understanding of
   greatest increase and availability of computing resources in the world
   will be in the area of clusters interactions and significantly change
   our current of workstations. Future CFD codes must be able to climate.
   However, these concerns have been very operate on these platforms.
   difficult to address due to our limited understanding of each of the
   isolated physical systems, much less the In this section, the current
   code developments that fully coupled climate system. have benefited
   from the availability of massively parallel computers are summarized.
   For the mantle simulations, not only did the application benefit from
   the new computers, but Baumgardner's work often led the way for other
   applications in the development of optimal techniques and the
   demonstration of the importance of the new platforms. Mantle Dynamics
   Simulation Thirty years after the scientific revolution in the Earth
   sciences that established the concept of plate tectonics, key aspects
   of the mechanism responsible for moving the tectonic plates across the
   surface of the Earth still remain unclear. Although the driving forces
   are generally ascribed to the process of thermal convection, the
   pattern of flow in the mantle responsible for the plate motions is
   still largely a matter of speculation. The advent of massively parallel
   computers, however, is now making possible high-resolution 3-D
   simulation of the mantle's dynamic. When coupled with improving
   observational results from seismic tomography, numerical modeling of
   the Earth's interior promises to yield genuine understanding of the
   Earth's internal dynamics and its plate tectonics history. Fig. 3.5-1
   Cutaway view of the interior of a model of The mantle dynamics code
   [22][23][24][25] is a 3D, the Earth's mantle showing patterns of cold
   down- finite-element model that uses a mesh comprised of welling (in
   blue and green) and hot upwelling (in red hexagonal prism elements
   constructed from the and orange) generated by the process of thermal
   regular icosahedron. The mantle's silicate material is convection.
   treated as a viscous fluid. A multigrid method is used to solve the
   global system of elliptic equations on Performing realistic computer
   simulations of the every time step. The code utilizes domain global
   ocean is difficult because the ocean contains decomposition and
   message-passing communication both relatively small spatial scales
   (tens of kilometers to map the calculation onto massively parallel for
   energetic eddies) and long time scales (many platforms such a Cray T3D
   and the IBM SP-2 or onto centuries for the deep ocean circulation). The
   ocean clusters of scientific workstations. The model general
   circulation model (OGCM), called POP includes the physics of
   mineral-phase transition as (Parallel Ocean Program) [40][89], was
   developed to well as temperature and stress-dependent rheology and take
   advantage of parallel computer architectures and tectonic plates over
   the Earth's surface. Fig. 3.5-1 to perform the highest resolution
   global ocean shows one time of a simulation that uses 1.3 million
   simulations ever undertaken. elements on 16 nodes of the parallel Cray
   T3D. POP is a descendant of the Bryan-Cox OGCM which Global Ocean and
   Climate Modeling has been successful in simulating a wide range of
   ocean flows. The earlier model has been substantially POP: Global Ocean
   Modeling The earth's improved and adapted for use with massively
   parallel climate is determined by the complex interaction of computers.
   Improvements include a surface-pressure many physical systems including
   the ocean, formulation that allows a much more realistic atmosphere,
   and biosphere. There is a growing representation of land masses and
   ocean-bottom concern that human activities (such as increasing
   topography, an implicit free-surface technique that greenhouse gases,
   introducing ozone-depleting lets the air-sea interface evolve freely
   [41], and the chemicals, and deforestation) could alter these ability
   to use any locally orthogonal horizontal grid which easily allows the
   Arctic ocean to be included in compromise important physical
   approximations. simulations without the problems associated with the
   CICE features a new elastic-viscous-plastic model of convergence at the
   North Pole. ice dynamics that permits a fully explicit implementation
   and produces results equivalent to the High-resolution simulations,
   using POP, of the standard implicit viscous-plastic model. global ocean
   on 512 nodes of the Thinking Machines CM-5 computer at Los Alamos gives
   a horizontal Atmosphere and Ocean Coupling A new resolution from 30 km
   near the equator to 7 km at the climate model for parallel computer
   architectures is poles. Estimates of the true atmospheric winds from
   under development with the goal of coupling 1985 to 1994 are used to
   force the model. individual component models for the atmosphere,
   hydrosphere, sea ice and biosphere. In most existing Sea Ice Model A
   component of the POP effort is coupled models, simulations are run at
   very coarse a description of the sea ice (the CICE model). Many
   resolution (5 degrees) to enable very long factors affect the growth
   and movement of sea ice, integrations. The Los Alamos model combines
   the including heat fluxes from the atmosphere and ocean, Community
   Climate Model (CCM3) from the short- and long-wave radiation, humidity,
   snowfall, National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) albedo,
   salinity, ocean currents and winds [80][84]. for the atmosphere and
   biosphere with the POP ocean CICE has three interacting components: a
   model in the DOE-sponsored CHAMMP (Computer thermodynamic model that
   produces local growth Hardware, Advanced Mathematics and Model Physics)
   rates of snow and ice due to heating, snowfall and Program. local air,
   ice and ocean temperatures; a transport model consisting of five
   continuity equations for ice In addition, the NCAR Flux Coupler is used
   to and snow thicknesses; and a model of ice dynamics, "glue" the models
   together. The Flux Coupler accepts which predicts the velocity field of
   the ice pack based state variables from each component model,
   calculates on a model of the material strength of the ice and all
   interface fluxes (e.g. heat and water), and sends forcing by wind and
   ocean currents. The principal these fluxes back to the component
   models. Los difficulty in the CICE model is the description of the
   Alamos has added 1st and 2nd-order conservative viscous-plastic
   deformation of the ice under flow. interpolation schemes [38] that work
   for more general Parallel architectures present problems for these
   grids like the POP displaced-pole grid. Currently, the implicit models,
   which require excessive CHAMMP model is being tested with shorter
   communication between processors. On the other simulations before
   beginning long (100-year) hand, computationally simpler models tend to
   simulations to examine climate variability. Fig. 3.5-2. This figure
   shows the sea surface temperature averaged over 3 years as simulated by
   the Parallel Ocean Program (POP). 3.6 Turbulence Modeling: Two-Point
   Correlations and Engineering Models Current Research in T-3 History of
   Turbulence Modeling Much of the work on turbulence in T-3 involves
   exploiting the more fundamental two-point turbulence The first efforts
   in "turbulence" modeling directed modeling approach to derive
   "enhanced" engineering towards a practical closure date back to Chou
   [28] in models. Thus, the effort may be considered as the early 1940's
   and to Rotta [88] in the early 1950's. categorized into three subareas.
   These early attempts at modeling typically involved a transport
   equation for the turbulent kinetic energy, Derivation and validation of
   two-point and met with limited success. It seemed that models A recent
   development in T-3 by Besnard, something was missing: a time-scale or a
   length- Harlow, Rauenzahn and Zemach [14] has been a scale. One of the
   most successful "recipes" for tractable spectral (two-point) closure by
   borrowing producing the missing item was the introduction of ideas from
   both single-point and two-point models. the turbulent kinetic energy
   dissipation rate equation This model does not require an equation and
   thus (" "), by Harlow and Nakayama in the late 1960's does not invoke
   many of the self-similarity [51][52]. Rather than attempt to derive the
   -transport constraints implicit in the one-point closures. The
   equation, Harlow and Nakayama produced it from the model has served as
   the basis of a great deal of the turbulent kinetic energy equation and
   dimensional spectral modeling work and practical simulations of
   considerations alone, which lead to the still-popular, turbulent mixing
   in multiple material problems. and useful, k- and Rij- [35] family of
   closures. Extensions have been made to variable-density turbulence [32]
   and inhomogeneous variable-density During this time period there were
   also attempts to turbulence (e.g., Rayleigh-Taylor mixing) [91].
   develop theoretical models of turbulence, such as the Quasi-Normal
   models initiated by Millionshtchikov More recently, attempts are being
   made in T-3, most [82] in the 1940's and the Direct Interaction notably
   by Turner, to construct an Eddy-Damped Approximation of Kraichnan [70]
   in the 1950's. Quasi-Normal Markovian (EDQNM) model for These models
   differ from the "practical" closures in inhomogeneous flows which does
   not invoke any some profound ways. The "practical" closures to this
   assumptions of local homogeneity or local isotropy, day are based on
   the joint probabilities of the and thus fundamentally differs from the
   work of the fluctuating fluid quantities at a single point in space
   French researchers at L'Ecole Centrale de Lyon. The and time, e.g., Rij
   (x,t) = ui (x,t)uj (x,t). The more effort follows closely our direct
   numerical fundamental theories typically consider the joint simulations
   using pseudo-spectral algorithms of p r o b a b i l i t i e s a t t w o
   p o i n t s , inhomogeneous turbulence. Figure 3.6-1 shows results from
   the EDQNM model. Our research is Rij (x1, x2,t) = ui (x1,t)uj (x2,t)
   and in some cases directed toward understanding the degree to which the
   ( e . g . , D I A ) a t t w o t i m e s , EDQNM class of models can
   represent the strongly Rij (x1,x2,t1t2 ) = ui (x1,t1)uj (x2,t2 ).
   intermittent zones at the edges of the turbulent zones, as well as
   understanding how well "gradient-diffusion" Although the single point
   models provided a tractable models of the one-point variety can
   represent the set of equations, they sacrificed significant physical
   spreading of the turbulence. The work illustrates the fidelity. But,
   the more fundamental closures are nearly relatively strong departures
   of the statistics from a intractable, unless severe restrictions are
   made (i.e., near-Gaussian distribution and the importance of the
   isotropy, or homogeneity), and then cast in terms of action of the
   triple-velocity correlations on the Fourier series. What do the more
   fundamental theories distribution of the turbulence, and thus
   highlights the offer? The two-point models do not require a need, and
   challenge, of higher order turbulence restrictive coupling of
   length-scales and time-scales, a closures. type of statistical
   self-similarity necessary to characterize the multiscale problem by,
   say, two- Direct numerical simulation (DNS) and two-point scales, k and
   . While it will probably be some time closures are also being used to
   investigate the nature before computers are capable of solving the of
   the correlations of the fluctuating pressure-velocity fundamental
   theories for practical problems, they and fluctuating pressure-strain.
   It is found that the provide considerable guidance in the assumptions
   "local" representation in differential form (rather than inherent in
   the derivation of single-point equations, integral over the field) of
   these terms as used in most and also serve as a useful bridge between
   direct single-point closures may lead to errors at least as numerical
   simulations and single-point closures. large as those due to truncating
   the hierarchy of moment equations in the "classical" closure problem.
   This is also true of spectral models which reduce the vector-k-space
   spectral equations to a scalar k-space. inserted into the two-point
   model equations, and a By understanding the nature and extent of this
   one-point model can be derived by the construction of "nonlocal"
   phenomenon, we hope to derive useable appropriate integral moments.
   Besnard et al. have approximations that capture this feature of the
   shown that if one chooses to represent the spectra as a pressure
   correlations. particular self-similar form, one can then directly
   derive a k- model by constructing appropriate moments of the spectra.
   If the spectra from the model produce a different self-similar form in
   different circumstances, then a new set of moment equations may produce
   an improved k- model. An example of this has been demonstrated by Clark
   [29] and Clark and Zemach [30]. Current Applications The turbulence
   transport models developed in T-3 are being applied to examples at all
   flow speeds from far subsonic (incompressible) to supersonic, and with
   various combinations of interpenetrating fluids or clouds of droplets
   or grains. Some of these examples are: the fuel-air interaction in an
   internal combustion engine, turbulent flame behavior, unstable
   deformation of inertial confinement fusion capsules, nozzle flows with
   aerodynamic applications, two- phase flow of catalytic particles and
   petroleum in an Fig. 3.6-1. Results of the EDQNM model for industrial
   cracker, research problems for extended inhomogeneous turbulence. Shown
   is the turbulent model development (free shears and mixing layers),
   kinetic energy (red-high, purple-low) for the self- and fluidized beds.
   propagating or "diffusing" turbulence from an initial localized
   turbulence in the center of a channel. 5.7 Dynamics of Materials
   Examining the two-point closures for emergent scalings and
   self-similarities. O n e In what may seem an unexpected area for a
   fluid of the more interesting features observed in the dynamics group,
   in the past decade a significant spectral model of Besnard et al. [14]
   is the emergence research effort in solid mechanics has grown in T-3.
   of self-similar spectra for turbulence undergoing The point of
   relevance is that many of the homogeneous mean shears and strains and
   during free applications of interest involve large deformations of
   decay of homogeneous anisotropic turbulence at very solids that make
   use of numerical methods or high Reynolds numbers [29][31]. The
   emergence of theoretical approaches that have been developed for
   self-similar spectra has also been observed for the case fluids. The
   description of the dynamic response of of a spectral model applied to
   Rayleigh-Taylor solids to high-velocity, large deformation loadings
   mixing by Steinkamp et al. [91]. The emergence of involve strains
   between 0 and 200, strain rates from these self-similar spectral forms
   indicates that the 10-2 s-1 to 107 s-1, and temperatures from 300°K to
   turbulence model results (and, one hopes, the beyond the melting point.
   Nonlinear, anisotropic turbulence itself) can be described by far fewer
   degrees inelastic material response including strain-rate of freedom
   than required in the two-point description. phenomena, thermal
   softening, hardening, and failure The degree to which the spectral
   models describe must be considered. The resulting material models
   actual turbulence is judged by comparisons with direct must be
   compatible with the incremental, continuum numerical simulations at low
   Reynolds numbers and, formulations inherent to large deformation,
   numerical to whatever degree possible, by comparison to actual
   approaches and be numerically robust and experiments. computationally
   efficient for large-scale computational simulations. One-Point
   "Engineering" Models The emergence of the self-similar forms suggests
   that the High Strain-Rate Plasticity spectral models may provide a
   useful tool to judge the applicability of the single-point closures for
   a given The flow stress of a metal is affected strongly by the class of
   flows. If the emergent self-similar form is rate of deformation.
   Efforts are being pursued to reasonably simple, or "simplifiable", they
   can be implement plasticity models, which accurately model hardening
   phenomena due to strain and strain-rate, into computational analyses
   [78]. Furthermore, the Conclusions effects of the anisotropic plastic
   deformation on problems related to metal forming, machining, and The
   research in CFD in the early years of T-3 was impact events have been
   considered. Material prolific, even though all developments were
   anisotropy is a consequence of the inherent crystalline significant at
   the time when so few methods were structure of a solid. Information
   obtained from available. It was an exceptionally exciting time in the
   experiments and microstructural investigations are development of a new
   scientific field: computational used to construct anisotropic yield
   surfaces for a fluid dynamics. The field is now fully mature, some
   number of materials. The evolution of texture, three decades later. A
   comparison of early work with including twinning phenomena, also has
   been current research illustrates that many of the same pursued.
   methods are still fundamental, and modern advances in CFD are often
   improvements on older techniques. As Composites a consequence, the
   current contributions to CFD, as represented by the current work in
   T-3, are directed There is considerable interest in using engineered
   towards developing new material models, integrating composite materials
   to develop lighter structures that a wider variety of physics and
   applications to are strong under adverse conditions. Mechanical complex
   systems. The combination of more powerful attributes, which can be
   tailored to provide high computers with more sophisticated simulation
   tools strength and stiffness, light weight, abrasion have addressed
   problems that could not have been resistance, improved damage
   tolerance, and considered just a decade ago. inexpensive fabrication
   requirements, have established composites as ideal materials for many
   structural applications. Composite models are under Acknowledgments
   development for both epoxy and metal matrix composites and use a
   homogenization approach, The author wishes to thank the members of T-3
   who which accounts for the response of the constituents both
   contributed much of the initial text that and the interfaces within the
   composite [7]. These comprised this manuscript and who provide a truly
   techniques provide an approach for modeling the stimulating environment
   and an unmatched collective microstructure of heterogeneous materials
   without resource. I also wish to thank the organizers of the requiring
   a detailed resolution of the micromechanics. Canada CFD Conference for
   their interest and support Homogenization techniques are applicable to
   general that made this paper possible. Special thanks to M.A. loading
   conditions, compatible with a wide variety of Findley for the
   assistance in the final preparation of constitutive models for the
   constituents, and are easy the manuscript. to implement into simulation
   codes [1]. Material Failure Phenomena including shear banding and the
   nucleation and growth of porosity and cracks must be considered for the
   large deformation of materials. An engineering analysis cannot provide
   the resolution necessary for a detailed description of these
   micromechanical processes. Therefore, solutions of micromechanical
   events are obtained in terms of the far-field distributions of the
   stress state. The addition of failure phenomena to a continuum analysis
   also can lead to numerical complexities such as strain localization.
   The equations governing the dynamics of failure may become ill-posed in
   regions of material softening. Efforts to mitigate these numerical
   problems have resulted in the development of rate- dependent,
   overstress material models for ductile failure [2][4][59] and brittle
   failure [3]. References Dynamics," Los Alamos National Laboratory
   Report LA-UR-95-2968, 1996. [1] Addessio, F.L., and J.B. Aidun,
   "Analysis of [14] Besnard, D.C., F.H. Harlow, R. Rauenzahn
   Shock-Induced Damage in Fiber Reinforced and C. Zemach, "Spectral
   Transport Model for Composites," High-Pressure Shock Turbulence," Los
   Alamos National Laboratory Compression of Solids, Vol. 3, L. Davison
   Report LA-UR-92-1666, 1992. and M. Shahinpoor, Eds., Springer-Verlag
   (in [15] Birn, J., F. Iinoya, J.U. Brackbill, and M. print). Hesse, "A
   Comparison of MHD Simulations [2] Addessio, F.L., and J.N. Johnson,
   "Rate of Magnetotail Dynamics," Geophys. Res. Dependent Ductile Failure
   Model," J. Appl. Lett., 1995 (accepted). Phys., Vol. 74, p. 1640, 1993.
   [16] Brackbill, J.U., and W.E. Pracht, "An [3] Addessio, F.L., and J.N.
   Johnson, "A Implicit, Almost-Lagrangian Algorithm for Constitutive
   Model for the Dynamic Response Magnetohydrodynamics," J. Comp. Phys.,
   of Brittle Materials," J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 67, Vol. 13, p. 455-482,
   1973. p. 3275, 1990. [17] Brackbill, J.U., and H.M. Ruppel, "FLIP: A
   [4] Addessio, F.L., J.N. Johnson and P.J. Method for Adaptively Zoned,
   Particle-In-Cell Maudlin, "The Effect of Void Growth on Calculations of
   Fluid Flows in Two Taylor Cylinder Impact Experiments," J. Appl.
   Dimensions," J. Comp. Phys., Vol. 65, Phys., Vol. 73, p. 7288, 1993. p.
   314, 1986. [5] Addessio, F.L., J.R. Baumgardner, J.K. [18] Brackbill,
   J.U., "FLIP MHD: A Particle-In- Dukowicz, N.L. Johnson, B.A. Kashiwa,
   Cell Method for Magnetohydrodynamics," J. R.M. Rauenzahn, and C.
   Zemach, "CAVEAT: Comput. Phys., Vol. 96, pp. 163192, 1991. A Computer
   Code for Fluid Dynamics [19] Brackbill, J.U., "On Modeling Angular
   Problems with Large Distortion and Internal Momentum and Vorticity in
   Compressible Slip," Los Alamos National Laboratory Report Fluid Flow,"
   Comput. Phys. Comm., LA-10613-MS Rev. 1, May 1992. Vol. 47, pp. 116,
   1987. [6] Addessio, F.L., M.C. Cline, and J.K. [20] Brackbill, J.U.,
   "The Ringing Instability in Dukowicz, "A General Topology, Godunov
   Particle-In-Cell Calculations of Low-Speed Method," Comp. Phys. Comm.,
   Vol. 48, Flow," J. Comput. Phys., Vol. 75, pp. 469 pp. 6573, 1988. 492,
   1988. [7] Aidun, J.B., and F.L. Addessio, "An Enhanced [21] Brackbill,
   J.U., D. Kothe, C. Zemach, "A Cell Model with Nonlinear Elasticity," J.
   Continuum Method for Modeling of Surface Comp. Mat., Vol. 30, p. 7248,
   1996. Tension," J. Comp. Phys., Vol. 100, pp. 335- [8] Amsden, A.A.,
   and F.H. Harlow, J. Comp. 354, 1992. Phys., Vol. 3, p. 80, 1968. [22]
   Bunge, H.P., and J.R. Baumgardner, "Mantle [9] Amsden, A.A., H.M.
   Ruppel, and C.W. Hirt, Convection and Modeling on Parallel Virtual
   "SALE: A Simplified ALE Computer Machines," Computers in Physics, Vol.
   9, Program for Fluid Flow at All Speeds," Los pp. 207215, 1995. Alamos
   National Laboratory Report LA-8095, [23] Bunge, H.P., and M.A.
   Richards, "The Origin 1980. of Long-Wavelength Structure in Mantle [10]
   Amsden, A.A., "KIVA-3: A KIVA Program Convection: Effects of Plate
   Motions and with Block Structured Mesh for Complex Viscosity
   Stratification," Geophys. Res. Lett., Geometries," Los Alamos National
   Laboratory 1996 (submitted). Report LA-12503-MS, March 1993. [24]
   Bunge, H.P., M.A. Richards, and J.R. [11] Amsden, A.A., P.J. O'Rourke,
   and T.D. Baumgardner, "A Sensitivity Study of 3-D Butler, "KIVA-II: A
   Computer Program for Spherical Mantle Convection at 108 Rayleigh
   Chemically Reactive Flows with Sprays," Los Number: Effects of
   Depth-Dependent Alamos National Laboratory Report LA- Viscosity,
   Heating Mode, and an Endothermic 11560-MS, May 1989. Phase Change," J.
   Geophys. Res., 1996 [12] Amsden, D.C., and A.A. Amsden, "The KIVA
   (submitted). Story: A Pardigm of Technology Transfer," [25] Bunge,
   H.P., M.A. Richards, and J.R. IEEE Trans. on Prof. Comm., Vol. 36,
   Baumgardner, "The Effect of Depth-Dependent pp. 190195, 1993. Viscosity
   on the Platform of Mantle [13] Apen, P.G., E.L. Joyce, B.A. Kashiwa,
   and Convection," Nature, Vol. 379, pp. 436438, W.B. VanderHeyden,
   "Virtual National 1996. Laboratory for the Investigation of Multiphase
   [26] Burgess, B., J.U. Brackbill, and D. Sulsky, "Mass Matrix
   Formulation of the FLIP Particle-In-Cell Method," J. Comput. Phys.,
   Atmos. Oceanic Technol., Vol. 10, pp. 195 Vol. 103, pp. 115, 1992. 208,
   1993. [27] Butler, T.D., and P.J. O'Rourke, "A [41] Dukowicz, J.K., and
   R.D. Smith, "Implicit Numerical Method for Two-Dimensional Free-Surface
   Method for the Bryan-Cox- Unsteady Reacting Flows," Sixteenth Semtner
   Ocean Model," J. Geo. Res., Vol. 99, International Symposium on
   Combustion , pp. 7991-8014, 1994. pp. 15031515, 1976. [42] Evans, M.W.,
   and F.H. Harlow, "The [28] Chou, P.Y., "On an Extension of Reynolds'
   Particle-In-Cell Method for Hydrodynamic Method of Finding Apparent
   Stress and the Calculations," Los Alamos National Nature of
   Turbulence," Chin. J. Phys., Laboratory Report LA-2139, 1957. Vol. 4,
   pp. 133, 1940. [43] Forslund, D.W., and J.U. Brackbill, [29] Clark,
   T.T., "Spectral Self-Similarity of "Magnetic Field Induced Surface
   Transport in Homogeneous Anisotropic Turbulence," Ph.D. Laser
   Irradiated Foils," Phys. Rev. Let., Dissertation, University of New
   Mexico, Vol. 48, p. 1614, 1982. 1991, also available as Los Alamos
   National [44] Fromm, J. and F.H. Harlow, "Numerical Laboratory Report
   LA-12284-T, 1992. Solution of the problem of Vortex Sheet [30] Clark,
   T.T., and C. Zemach, "Engineering Development," Phys. Fluids, Vol. 6,
   p. 975, Turbulence Models from the Standpoint of 1963. Spectral
   Turbulence Models," Bull. Am. Phys. [45] Gentry, R., R.E. Martin and
   B.J. Daly, J. Soc., Vol. 37 (8), p. 1799, 1992. Comp. Phys., "An
   Eulerian Differencing [31] Clark , T.T., and C. Zemach, "A Spectral
   Method for Unsteady Compressible Flow Model Applied to Homogeneous
   Turbulence," Problems," Vol. 1, p. 87, 1966 Phys. Fluids, Vol. 7 (7),
   pp. 16741694, [46] Harlow, F. H., "Hydrodynamic Problems 1995.
   Involving Large Fluid Distortion," J. Assoc. [32] Clark, T.T. , and
   P.B. Spitz, "Two-Point Comp. Mach., Vol. 4, p. 137, 1957. Correlation
   Equations for Variable-Density [47] Harlow, F.H., D.O. Dickman, D.E.
   Harris, Turbulence," Los Alamos National Laboratory and R.E. Martin,
   "Two-Dimensional Report LA-12672-MS, 1995. Hydrodynamic Calculations,"
   Los Alamos [33] Collins, J. P., P. Colella, H.M. Glaz, "An National
   Laboratory Report LA-2301, 1959. Implicit-Explicit Eulerian Godunov
   Scheme [48] Harlow, F.H., and B.D. Meixner, "The for Compressible
   Flows," J. Comp. Phys., Particle-And-Force Method for Fluid Vol. 116,
   pp. 195-211, 1995. Dynamics," Los Alamos National Laboratory [34] Daly,
   B.J., F.H. Harlow, and J.E. Welch, Report LA-MS-2567, 1961. "Numerical
   Fluid Dynamics Using the [49] Harlow, F.H., "Theory of Correspondence
   Particle-And-Force Method," Los Alamos between Fluid Dynamics and
   Particle-And- National Laboratory Report LA-3144, 1965. Force Method,"
   Los Alamos National [35] Daly, B.J., and F.H. Harlow, "Transport
   Laboratory Report LAMS-2806, 1963. Equations in Turbulence," Phys.
   Fluids, [50] Harlow, F.H., and E. Welch, "Numerical Vol. 13, pp.
   26342649, 1970. Calculation of Time-Dependent Viscous [36] Dukowicz,
   J.K., "A Particle-Fluid Numerical Incompressible Flow of Fluids with
   Free Model for Liquid Sprays," J. Comp. Phys., Surface," Phys. Fluids,
   Vol. 8, p. 2182, Vol. 35, pp. 229-253, 1980. 1965. [37] Dukowicz, J.K.,
   "A General, Non-Iterative [51] Harlow, F.H., and P.I. Nakayama,
   "Turbulence Riemann Solver for Godunov's Method," J. Transport
   Equations," Phys. Fluids, Vol. 10, Comp. Phys., Vol. 61, pp. 119137,
   1985 pp. 23232332, 1967. [40]. [52] Harlow, F.H., and P.I. Nakayama,
   "Transport [38] Dukowicz, J.K., and J. Kodis, SIAM J. Sci. of
   Turbulence Energy Decay Rate," Los Stat. Comp. , Vol. 8, pp. 305-321,
   1987. Alamos National Laboratory Report LA-3854, [39] Dukowicz, J.K.,
   M.C. Cline, and F.L. 1968. Addessio, "A General Topology Godunov [53]
   Harlow, F.H., A.A. Amsden, and C.W. Hirt, Method," J. Comp. Phys., Vol.
   82, pp. 65 2nd Int. Conf. on Num. Methods of Fluid 73, 1989. Dynamics,
   Berkeley, CA, Sept. 1970. [40] Dukowicz, J.K., R.D. Smith, and R.C.
   [54] Hirt, C.W., A.A. Amsden, and J.L. Cook, Malone, "A Reformulation
   and "An Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian Computing Implementation of the
   Bryan-Cox-Semtner Method for All Flow Speeds," J. Comp. Ocean Model on
   the Connection Machine," J. Phys., Vol. 14, p. 227, 1974. [55] Hirt,
   C.W., B.D. Nichols, and N.C. Romero, Fluid Methods," Los Alamos
   National "SOLA-A Numerical Solution Algorithm for Laboratory,
   LA-UR-94-3384, 1994, submitted Transient Fluid Flows," Los Alamos
   National to J. Comp. Phys. , Feb. 1995. Laboratory Report LA-5852,
   1975. [69] Kothe, D., C. Zemach and A. Chaumeazea, [56] Hirt, C.W.,
   N.C. Romero, M.D. Torrey, and manuscript in preparation, 1996. J.R.
   Travis, "SOLA-DF: A Solution [70] R. H. Kraichnan, "The Structure of
   Isotropic Algorithm for Nonequilibrium Two-Phase Turbulence at Very
   High Reynolds Number," Flow," Los Alamos National Laboratory J. Fluid
   Mech. , Vol. 5, pp. 497-543, 1959. Report LA-7725-MS (and
   NUREG/CR-0690), [71] Lapenta, G., and J.U. Brackbill, "Control of 1979.
   the Number of Particles in Fluid and MHD [57] Hirt, C.W., and B.D.
   Nichols, "Volume of Particle-In-Cell Methods," Comp. Phys. Fluid (VOF)
   Method for the Dynamics of Free Comm., Vol. 87, p. 139, 1995.
   Boundaries," J. Comp. Phys., pp. 39, 201, [72] Lapenta, G., F. Iinoya,
   and J.U. Brackbill, 1981. "Particle-In-Cell Simulation of Glow [58]
   Hirt, C.W., J. Comp. Phys., Vol. 2, p. 339, Discharges in Complex
   Geometries," IEEE 1968. Transactions on Plasma Science, Vol. 23, [59]
   Johnson, J.N., and F.L. Addessio, "Tensile p. 769, 1995. Plasticity and
   Ductile Fracture," J. Appl. [73] Lapenta, G., and J.U. Brackbill,
   "Immersed Phys., Vol. 64, p. 6699, 1988. Boundary Method for Plasma
   Simulation in [60] Johnson, N.L., "Discrete Macroscopic Complex
   Geometries," IEEE Trans. Plasma Simulation of Fluid Flows," Doctoral
   Thesis, Sci., 1996 (accepted). University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1983.
   [74] Lapenta, G., and J.U. Brackbill, "Simulation [61] Johnson, N.L.,
   and Y. Takagi, editors. of Dust Particle Dynamics for Electrode
   Modeling in Diesel and SI Engines, SAE Design in Plasma Discharges,"
   Plasma publication SP-1123, 1995. Sources Science and Technology, 1996
   [62] Johnson, N. L., A. A. Amsden, T. D. Butler, (submitted). "Hydrogen
   Program Combustion Research: [75] Lewis, M.W., B.A. Kashiwa, R.W.
   Meier, and Three Dimensional Computer Modeling," S. Bishop, "Nonlinear
   Dynamic Fluid- Proceedings of the 1995 DOE/NREL Hydrogen Structure
   Interaction Calculations with Program Review, Vol. II, pp. 285-304,
   Coupled Finite Element and Finite Volume NREL/CP-430-20036, 1995.
   Programs," ASME Winter Annual Meeting, [63] Kashiwa, B.A., "A
   Generalized MAC Method Chicago, IL, 1994. for Incompressible Fluid
   Flow," Los Alamos [76] Linn, R.R., and F.H. Harlow, "Wildfire National
   Laboratory Report LA-10853-MS, Propagation," Los Alamos National
   November 1986. Laboratory Report, LALP-96-22, 1996. [64] Kashiwa, B.A.,
   "A Predictor-Corrector Method [77] Lun, C.K.K., and A.A. Bent,
   "Numerical for Calculation of Incompressible Fluid Flow Simulation of
   Inelastic Frictional Spheres in Dynamics," Los Alamos National
   Laboratory Simple Shear Flow," J. Fluid Mech., Report LA-10854-MS,
   November 1986. Vol. 258, pp. 335353, 1994. [65] Kashiwa, B.A.,
   "Statistical Theory of [78] Maudlin, P. J., S.I. Wright, G. T. Gray
   III, Turbulent Incompressible Multimaterial and J. W. House,
   "Application of Faceted Flow," University of Washington Doctoral Yield
   Surfaces for Simulating Compression Thesis, Los Alamos National
   Laboratory Tests of Textured Materials," Metallurgical and Report
   LA-11088-T, 1987. Materials Applications of Shock-Wave and [66]
   Kashiwa, B.A., N.T. Padial, R.M. Rauenzahn, High Strain Phenomena,
   editors L. E. Murr, and W.B. VanderHeyden, "A Cell-Centered ICE K.P.
   Staudhammer and M.A. Meyers, Elsevier Method of Multiphase Flow
   Simulations," in Science Publishers, 1995. Proceedings, ASME Symposium
   on [79] Mavriplis, D.J., "Three-Dimensional Multigrid Numerical Methods
   for Multiphase Flows, Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes Solver for Lake
   Tahoe, NV, 1923 June 1994. Unstructured Grids," AIAA Journal, Vol. 33,
   [67] Kashiwa, B.A., "Reactive Multiphase Flow pp. 445-453, 1995.
   Simulation Workshop Summary," W.B. [80] Maykut, G.A., and N.
   Untersteiner, "Some VanderHeyden, editor, Los Alamos National Results
   from a Time Dependent Laboratory Report LA-UR-95-2194, June
   Thermodynamic Model of Sea Ice," 1996. J. Geophys. Res., Vol. 76, pp.
   15501575, [68] Kothe, D., and W. Rider, "Comments on 1971. Modeling
   Interfacial Flows with Volume-of- [81] Menikoff, R., K. Lackner, N.L.
   Johnson, S.A. Penetration of History-Dependent Materials," Colgate,
   J.M. Hyman, G.A. Miranda, "Shock in Symposium on Advances in Numerical
   Driven by a Phased Implosion," Phys. Fluids Simulation Techniques for
   Penetration and A, Vol. 3, pp. 201218, 1991. Perforation of Solids, The
   American Society of [82] Millionshtchikov, M., "On the Theory of
   Mechanical Engineers, 1993. Homogeneous Turbulence," Dokl. Akad. [95]
   Sulsky, D., and H.L. Schreyer, "The Particle- Nauk. SSSR, Vol. 32, pp.
   615618, 1941. In-Cell Method as a Natural Impact [83] O'Rourke, P.J.,
   B. Larratirou, and J.U. Algorithm," Sandia National Laboratories,
   Brackbill, "On Particle-Grid Interpolation in Contract No. AC-1801,
   1993. Particle-In-Cell Methods and Application to a [96] Travis, J.R.,
   C.W. Hirt, and W.C. Rivard, Model Flame Problem," J. Comp. Phys.,
   "Multidimensional Effects in Critical Two- Vol. 109, pp. 3752, 1993.
   Phase Flow," Nuc. Sci. Eng., Vol. 68, [84] Pounder, E.R., "The Physics
   of Sea Ice," in p. 338, 1978. The Sea, M.N. Hill, Ed., Vol. 1, pp. 826
   [97] Viecelli, A., J. Comp. Phys., Vol. 4, 838, Interscience, 1962.
