http://hazmat.dot.gov/pubtrain/safe1-02.pdf

   Hazmat Transportation Security on Highest Alert during Olympics and
   Super Bowl January 18, 2002 The U.S. Department of Transportation
   (USDOT) is asking that the hazmat community be especially vigilant
   regarding possible terrorists attacks during the time of Super Bowl
   XXXVI scheduled for February 3, 2002 in New Orleans, Louisiana and the
   Winter Olympics scheduled to begin on February 8, 2002 in Salt Lake
   City, Utah. Although security measures have been expanded at the
   specific site locations of these special events, possible threats exist
   nationally as ALERTALERTALERTALERTALERTYYYYY attention is focused
   elsewhere. ìWhile much of the recent media attention has focused on
   aviation safety, the new Transportation Security Administration will
   work to develop heightened security procedures and awareness across
   every mode of transportation including rail, highways, transit,
   maritime and pipeline. Across every mode, we must continue to develop
   measures to increase the protection of critical transportation assets,
   addressing freight as well as passenger transportation,î Secretary
   Norman Y. Mineta said. Hazmat transportation security measures should
   be reviewed and strengthened as appropriate. The Department is
   requesting shippers and transporters of high-hazard materials to
   consider altering routes to avoid populated areas whenever practicable.
   (For high-hazard materials see 49 CFR 172.504 Table 1) In the wrong
   hands hazardous materials pose a threat to transportation security.
   Transportation workers should be more aware of their surroundings and
   watch for and report any suspicious activities they may see. Hazmat
   vehicles should be within view at all times and whenever possible
   should not be left unattended. Companies should insure that hazardous
   materials are in responsible and reliable hands. SAFETY SAFETY SAFETY
   SAFETY Enhanced security measures relating to delivery scrutiny and
   delays SAFETY should also be addressed. The transportation industry
   should not only be alert as to possible theft of a loaded transport
   vehicle but of an empty one that could be loaded with cargo to cause
   mass destruction. Transport vehicles intended for U.S. Department other
   than hazardous materials may be utilized improperly and cause of
   Transportation great harm. New or enhanced transportation security
   measures when properly implemented should cause no disruption of the
   flow of cargo. DHM50-0017-0102
