http://galveston.ssp.nmfs.gov/efh/

                              [doclogogif.gif]

                               [noaalogo.jpg]

                                [gislab.gif]

   EFH Project

     NOTICE TO USERS! Use of this system constitutes consent to security
   monitoring and testing. All activity is logged with your host name and
                                 IP address.

           National Marine Fisheries Service, Galveston Laboratory
   Click here to go to the Galveston Laboratory Home Page

           Essential Fish Habitat Project Image13.gif (3470 bytes)

                            [bolivar%20marsh.jpg]

                                 Legislation

                             Relative Abundance

                               Created Marshes

                                 Literature

                                    Links

        Welcome to the EFH Project site for the National Marine Fisheries
   Service, Galveston Laboratory.  A major goal of the NMFS is to identify
   habitats that are essential for maintaining fishery productivity.  Once
   such habitats are identified, we can work to reduce activities that
   adversely impact them.  We can also work to ensure their conservation,
   enhancement, and restoration.  The Fishery Ecology Branch is actively
   involved in research projects directed towards meeting these goals.  We
   believe that creating healthy habitats for fish and people go
   hand-in-hand.

        This web site was developed to support EFH efforts of the Gulf of
   Mexico Fishery Management Council.  Maps and information are presented
   for use in identifying EFH in the Gulf of Mexico, and to complement the
   text of the EFH amendment (see Legislation section).  Also try the Gulf
   States Marine Fishery Commission site.  Additional EFH amendment
   information for the South Atlantic area of the U.S. is offered at the
   web site for the South Atlantic Fisheries Management Council - choose
   the "Final Essential Fish Habitat Plan" link when you get there.   You
   might also check for similar information for the Caribbean Sea at the
   web site for the Caribbean Fisheries Management Council.  We hope your
   interest in conservation and creation of essential fish habitat will be
   stimulated.

        Click the pictures and highlighted text to jump to new areas.



                               [sumhorsa.gif]

                     [fish_button.jpg] [fish_button.jpg]

                              [capitol_sml.jpg]

                           Section I. Legislation.

        Documents available in this section include a primer to EFH, the
   full text of the EFH amendment,  a model for determining EFH for
   nekton, as well as an introduction to our laws that serve to protect
   the environment for humans and fish.  Documents and internet links
   provide additional related information for NMFS habitat
   conservation. Access by clicking on the picture of the Capitol Building
   at the left.



                               [sumhorsa.gif]

                     [fish_button.jpg] [fish_button.jpg]

                               [bsdistrb.jpg]

                    Section II. Relative abundance maps.

        Relative abundance distribution maps of several important
   fisheries species are provided for estuaries and regions along the
   Gulf, and for the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the United States in
   the Gulf of Mexico. These maps are directly relevant to the Sustainable
   Fisheries Act and EFH amendment, and illustrate distributions of many
   species included in fishery management policy statements.  You can
   choose data for the species and/or areas that interest you. Access by
   clicking on the picture at the left.


                               [sumhorsa.gif]

                              [fish_button.jpg]

                                [mapping.jpg]

                Section III. Monitoring created salt marshes.

        Information about salt marshes, their functions and their
   creation, is offered.  A map utility lets you access some of our data
   and imagery about created salt marshes in Galveston Bay.  Access by
   clicking on the picture on to the left.

        Please try it out, and let Jeff know what you think.  Do you have
   data you can share with us?  We would like to include it.   Thanks!



                               [sumhorsa.gif]

            [fish_button.jpg] [fish_button.jpg] [fish_button.jpg]

                                [image19.gif]

                           Section IV. Literature.

        A core collection of our favorite references about salt marshes
   and seagrass beds is provided for you who are interested in digging a
   little deeper into their creation and ecology issues. You can also find
   links to the on-line publications from the NMFS Galveston Laboratory,
   and to a list of Technical Memoranda published by the SE Fisheries
   Science Center of NMFS.

        A primer for EFH, the EFH amendment, and a paper presenting a
   model for defining EFH are provided in the Legislation Section.



                               [sumhorsa.gif]

                     [fish_button.jpg] [fish_button.jpg]

                                 [Link1.jpg]

                              Section V. Links.

        Here are a few links to other internet sites of organizations with
   a fisheries or wetlands conservation mission. or of environmental
   interest.


   [sumhorsa.gif]
   Section I. Legislation.

                                                        [capitol.jpg]
        Nearly 70 laws and five executive orders have been enacted by the
   U.S. Congress and the President to protect the environment particularly
   as it relates to fishery species.  These laws arose during the past 100
   years to protect and conserve our national wildlife and fishery
   resources which were being depleted, and to protect the environment
   which was being altered and even poisoned with pollutants.  Many of
   these laws were directed at resolving specific problems, while others
   helped organize the movement towards a healthy environment. A few laws
   aimed at conservation and restoration of resources.  Summaries of all
   these acts and executive orders have been prepared by several agencies
   and can be viewed at the following linked sites.  A few of the major
   acts pertaining to EFH are very briefly summarized below; click a title
   on the list to jump to a brief.

        Also available are a primer to EFH, the entire text of the
   Essential Fishery Habitat Amendment, and a paper presenting a model for
   determining EFH for nekton species.

   URL's:

   http://ipl.unm.edu/cwl/fedbook/statute_frame.htm  -  Federal Wildlife
   and Related Laws Handbook, Chapter 4. Statute Summaries, provided by
   the U. of New Mexico

   http://laws.fws.gov/lawsdigest/indx.html  -  a Digest of Federal
   Resource Laws of Interest to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
   provided by the USFWS

   http://www4.law.cornell.edu/  -  a source for the full written law and
   interpretations, provided by the Legal Information Institute of Cornell
   Law School

   http://www.cnie.org/nle/leg-11.html  -  summaries of major laws
   implemented by the National Marine Fisheries Service, provided by the
   National Council for Science and the Environment

   Briefs, listed in chronological order of enactment:

   [sumbul1a.gif] Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 1934
   [sumbul1a.gif] Rivers and Harbors Act, 1938
   [sumbul1a.gif] Anadromous Fish Conservation Act, 1965
   [sumbul1a.gif] National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 1970
   [sumbul1a.gif] Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act),
                  1972
   [sumbul1a.gif] Coastal Zone Management Act, 1972
   [sumbul1a.gif] Endangered Species Act, 1973
   [sumbul1a.gif] Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 1976
   [sumbul1a.gif] Floodplain Management:  Executive Order No. 11988, 1977
   [sumbul1a.gif] Protection of Wetlands: Executive Order No. 11990, 1977
   [sumbul1a.gif] Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
                  Liability Act, 1980
   [sumbul1a.gif] Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration
                  Act (CWPPRA), 1990


                            EFH Amendment primer

   Open a "primer" to the EFH amendment (118KB) by clicking on the pdf
   icon at the left.

                                EFH Amendment

   Open the EFH Amendment (962KB) by clicking on the pdf icon at the left.
   Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
   Adobe System Incorporated Adobe Acrobat^® Reader
   is required to see the PDF data.

   (The EFH Amendment and the "primer" are in Adobe Acrobat file format.
   To download the documents instead of opening them into your browser
   window do the following:

     MS Internet Explorer: move the mouse cursor onto the pdf icon, click
     the right mouse button, and select "Save Target As..."
     Netscape Navigator: move the mouse cursor onto the pdf icon, click
     the right mouse button, and select "Save Link As...")

   Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 1934.  16 U.S.C. §§ 661-667e, March
   10, 1934, as amended 1946, 1958, 1978 and 1995.

               The Act provides that whenever the waters or channel of a
   body of water are modified by a department or agency of the U.S., the
   department or agency first shall consult with the U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service and with the head of the agency exercising
   administration over the wildlife resources of the state where
   construction will occur, with a view to the conservation of wildlife
   resources. The Act provides that land, water and interests may be
   acquired by federal construction agencies for wildlife conservation and
   development. In addition, real property under jurisdiction or control
   of a federal agency and no longer required by that agency can be
   utilized for wildlife conservation by the state agency exercising
   administration over wildlife resources upon that property.  The
   Secretary of the Interior is authorized to provide assistance to, and
   cooperate with, federal, state, and public or private agencies and
   organizations in:   developing, protecting, rearing and stocking all
   species of wildlife, resources thereof, and their habitat; controlling
   losses from disease or other causes; minimizing damages from
   overabundant species; and providing public shooting and fishing areas.
   Wildlife and wildlife resources includes:  birds, fish, mammals and all
   other classes of wild animals and all types of aquatic and land
   vegetation upon which wildlife is dependent.


   Rivers and Harbors Act, 1938.   33 U.S.C. § 540, June 20, 1938.

               The Act places federal investigations and improvements of
   rivers, harbors and other waterways under the jurisdiction of the
   Department of the Army, under the direction of the Secretary of the
   Army and under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers. It also
   requires that all investigations and improvements include due regard
   for wildlife conservation. The Act, as enacted in 1938, authorized over
   50 individual water projects.

               The NMFS consults with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on
   projects that will impact essential fish habitat.  This act puts the
   responsibility for wildlife considerations on the USACE.


   Anadromous Fish Conservation Act, 1965.  16 U.S.C. §§ 757a-757g,
   October 30, 1965, as amended 1970, 1974, 1978, 1979, 1983, 1984, 1986,
   1988, 1990, 1991 and 1996.

               This Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter
   into agreements with states and other non-federal interests to
   conserve, develop and enhance the anadromous fish resources of the U.S.
   that are subject to depletion from water resources development and
   other causes, or with respect to which the U.S. has made conservation
   commitments by international agreements.

               The act provides partial funding for projects that:
   conduct investigations, engineering and biological surveys, and
   research; carry out stream clearance activities; construct, install,
   maintain, and operate devices and structures to improve feeding and
   spawning conditions, to protect fishery resources, to facilitate free
   migration of the fish, and to control the sea lamprey; construct,
   operate, and maintain fish hatcheries; conduct studies and make
   recommendations regarding the development and management of a stream or
   other body of water, provided that these project reports are sent to
   the states, Congress, and federal water resources construction
   agencies.  It also provides for acquiring lands for the enhancement or
   preservation of anadromous fish populations, with the titles to lands
   to be in the cooperating states or other non-federal interests.

               Studies supported by the act involve identification and
   remediation of pollution of the habitat, a variety of studies related
   to improving fish populations in the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain,
   studies for improving the populations of striped bass, and studies for
   improving the populations of salmon (Atlantic and Pacific).  The NMFS
   interests are in maintaining sufficient habitat, or enhancing the
   amount of habitat for anadromous species.  Much of the lower portions
   of rivers are essential fish habitat for anadromous species.


   National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 1970  42 U.S.C. §§ 4321-4347,
   January 1, 1970, as amended 1975 and 1994.

                NEPA declares it a national policy to encourage productive
   and enjoyable harmony between man and the environment and promote
   efforts to better understand and prevent damage to ecological systems
   and natural resources important to the nation. Agencies are required to
   prepare a detailed environmental impact statement (EIS) for any major
   federal action significantly affecting the environment (air, water, or
   land). The Act also establishes the Council on Environmental Quality
   (CEQ) to review government policies and programs for conformity with
   NEPA.  In recognizing the profound impact of man's activity on the
   natural environment, Congress declared that it is the continuing
   responsibility of the federal government, in cooperation with state and
   local governments and other concerned organizations, to use all
   practicable means to create and maintain conditions under which man and
   nature can exist in productive harmony and to fulfill the social,
   economic and other requirements of present and future generations.

                The President is required to submit an environmental
   quality report to Congress annually. The report must include a
   discussion of:

   ·         the status and condition of the major natural, manmade or
   altered environmental classes of the nation including the air, aquatic
   and terrestrial environments;

   ·         current and foreseeable trends in the quality, management and
   utilization of such environments and the effects of those trends on the
   social, economic and other requirements of the nation;

   ·         the adequacy of available natural resources for fulfilling
   the nation's human and economic requirements based on expected
   population pressures;

   ·         a review of programs and activities by local, state and
   federal government agencies and non-governmental entities in relation
   to their effect on the environment;

   ·         a program for remedying the deficiencies of existing programs
   and activities, with recommendations for legislation.

               The Council on Environmental Quality advises and assists
   the President in preparing the report. The Council must also report at
   least once a year to the President on the state and condition of the
   environment. The Council is charged with reviewing governmental
   policies and programs to determine if they are furthering the policy of
   NEPA and recommending national policies that would promote the
   improvement of environmental quality to meet the conservation, social,
   economic, health and other requirements and goals of the nation.

               The NMFS uses NEPA to protect the aquatic environment and
   the fishery populations therein.  Whenever a sizable federal, state, or
   local governmental action or developmental project presents potentially
   adverse impacts to essential fish habitat, NMFS issues comment to
   prevent such damage.


   Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act), 1972.  33 U.S.C.
   §§ 1251-1387, October 18, 1972, as amended 1973-1983, 1987, 1988,
   1990-1992, 1994, 1995 and 1996.

                The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, popularly known
   as the Clean Water Act, is a comprehensive statute aimed at restoring
   and maintaining the chemical, physical and biological integrity of the
   nation's waters. Enacted originally in 1948, the Act was amended
   numerous times until it was reorganized and expanded in 1972. It
   continues to be amended almost every year, and continues to be
   administered by the Administrator of the EPA.

               Even prior to the enactment of the 1972 version of the Act,
   the Act authorized the Public Health Service to prepare comprehensive
   programs for eliminating or reducing the pollution of interstate waters
   and tributaries and improving the sanitary condition of surface and
   underground waters. Due regard was to be given to improvements
   necessary to conserve waters for public water supplies, propagation of
   fish and aquatic life, recreational purposes, and agricultural and
   industrial uses.

               Primary authority for the implementation and enforcement of
   the Clean Water Act now rests with the U.S. Environmental Protection
   Agency (EPA). In addition to the measures authorized before 1972, the
   Act authorizes water quality programs, requires federal effluent
   limitations and state water quality standards, requires permits for the
   discharge of pollutants into navigable waters, provides enforcement
   mechanisms, and authorizes funding for wastewater treatment works
   construction grants and state revolving loan programs, as well as
   funding to states and tribes for their water quality programs.

               Important for wildlife protection purposes are the
   provisions requiring permits to dispose of dredged and fill materials
   into navigable waters, and for cleanup of oil spills or hazardous
   materials spills in the water or on the shoreline. Permits must be
   obtained from the Army Corps of Engineers under guidelines developed by
   EPA for dredging and filling operations along navigable waters. This is
   known as Section 404 permitting, and applies to many wetlands. Such
   permits originated as Section 404 of the Act as adopted by Congress,
   and required that persons wanting to dispose of dredged or fill
   material in navigable waters obtain a permit from the Army Corps of
   Engineers, and thus, affording some protection to wetlands. This is
   where the NMFS exercises its duty to protect and conserve essential
   fish habitat by commenting on proposed projects to reduce any negative
   impacts on coastal wetlands.

                The Act also states that there should be no discharges of
   oil or hazardous substances into or upon the navigable waters of the
   U.S., on adjoining shorelines or into or upon the waters of the
   contiguous zone, or which may affect natural resources belonging to,
   appertaining to, or under the exclusive management or authority of the
   U.S. The Act imposes liability for the costs of the removal of oil and
   hazardous substances that have been discharged, as well as for natural
   resource damages. It also imposes administrative and civil penalties
   for unlawful discharges and for failure to carry out orders issued
   under the Act. Further provisions on oil discharges can be found in the
   Oil Pollution Act.

   The Clean Water Act of 1977 is an amendment to the Federal Water
   Pollution Control Act of 1972, which set the basic structure for
   regulating and limiting discharges of pollutants into waters (fresh,
   estuarine, and marine) of the United States.


   Coastal Zone Management Act, 1972  16 U.S.C. §§ 1451-1465, October 27,
   1972, as amended 1975, 1976, 1978, 1986, 1990, 1992 and 1996.

               This Act establishes an extensive federal grant program
   within the Department of Commerce to encourage coastal states to
   develop and implement coastal zone management programs. The act aims to
   prevent further loss of living marine resources, wildlife,
   nutrient-rich areas, changes in ecological systems, and decreasing open
   space for public use.  It also aims to prevent shoreline erosion, a
   depletion of habitat areas of the coastal zone that support fish and
   wildlife.  It goes further to aid in the preservation of areas of
   cultural, historic and esthetic values in the coastal zone that are
   being irretrievably damaged or lost.  It promotes effective planning
   for new demands on these areas to reduce serious conflicts among
   important and competing uses of the coastal zone.  Activities that
   affect coastal zones must be consistent with approved state programs.
   The Act also establishes a national estuarine reserve system to promote
   research that will determine the types and amounts of use of the
   coastal zone that, when established, will not degrade the basic values
   of the coastal zone.


   Endangered Species Act, 1973.  16 U.S.C. §§ 1531-1544, December 28,
   1973, as amended 1976-1982, 1984 and 1988.

               Congress found that various species of fish, wildlife, and
   plants in the U.S. have been rendered extinct and others depleted to
   the point of being in danger of or threatened with extinction. Depleted
   species are of aesthetic, ecological, educational, historical,
   recreational and scientific value, and the U.S. has pledged to conserve
   various species facing extinction pursuant to several international
   treaties and agreements. States and other interested parties are
   encouraged through federal financial assistance and a system of
   incentives to develop conservation programs meeting national and
   international standards.  This is a key to meeting international
   commitments and to safeguarding the nation's heritage in fish, wildlife
   and plants.

               The Endangered Species Act (ESA) provides broad protection
   for species of fish, wildlife and plants that are listed as threatened
   or endangered in the U.S. or elsewhere. Provisions are made for listing
   species, as well as for recovery plans and the designation of critical
   habitat for listed species. The Act outlines procedures for federal
   agencies to follow when taking actions that may jeopardize listed
   species, and contains exceptions and exemptions. The Act also is the
   enabling legislation for the Convention on International Trade in
   Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, commonly known as CITES.
   Criminal and civil penalties are provided for violations of the Act and
   the Convention. The NMFS follows the provisions of the Act to protect
   threatened and endangered species and their habitats, particularly
   related to aquatic species.


   Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 1976

   The Sustainable Fisheries Act (Oct. 11, 1996) amends and renames the
   Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1986 ( which
   amended and renamed the Fishery Conservation and Management Act of
   1976) to the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act.
   It requires that the regional fishery management councils and the
   Secretary of Commerce describe and identify Essential Fish Habitat
   (EFH) for species under federal Fishery Management Plans (FMP).  EFH is
   defined in the Senate version of the bill as: "those waters and
   substrate necessary to fish for spawning, breeding, feeding, or growth
   to maturity."   The word "fish" in the previous sentence includes
   finfish, crabs, shrimp, lobsters and mollusks in the Gulf of Mexico.
   The House version of the bill did not include "substrate," nor did it
   include "feeding", their inclusion makes the coverage substantially
   more encompassing.

   The following explanation of "EFH" originated in a working group formed
   by the Office of Habitat Conservation (HC), NOAA, and shows the variety
   intended for inclusion.  The group has divided the definition into its
   key components and analyzed each.  First, "waters" will include aquatic
   areas and their associated physical, chemical, and biological
   properties that are used by fish, and may include historic areas where
   appropriate.  For example, each species has certain water requirements
   for temperature, dissolved oxygen, depth, current flow, and prey
   species.  Second, "substrate" includes sediments, geologic features
   underlying the waters, and associated biological communities such as
   coral reefs or submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV).  Different species
   have different requirements regarding the type of sediment, such as
   clay, sand, gravel, rock, natural or artificial reefs, coral, or
   submerged aquatic vegetation.  Third, "necessary" means the habitat
   required to support a managed species or assemblage at a target
   production level, reflecting conscientious stewardship.  HC is
   considering how best to tie "necessary" to the idea of rebuilding
   depleted stocks or maintaining stocks that are in good shape.  Historic
   EFH may come into play if habitat is a limiting factor for a depleted
   stock.  Fourth, "spawning, breeding, feeding or growth to maturity"
   covers a species' full life cycle.  The inclusion of "feeding" may
   serve to include the transitional phases in a species' life cycle that
   were not specifically covered by spawning, breeding, and growth to
   maturity.

   Finally, EFH may include habitat for individual species or an
   assemblage of species, depending on the species and their FMP's.  Some
   FMP's include many more than one species, so it could be easier to
   consolidate the habitats into one EFH designation.


   Floodplain Management:  Executive Order No. 11988, 1977.  May 24, 1977,
   42 F.R. 26951

               President Jimmy Carter issued this order in support of the
   National Environmental Policy Act, the National Flood Insurance Act of
   1968, and the Flood Disaster Protection Act in order to avoid to the
   extent possible the long and short term adverse impacts associated with
   the occupancy and modification of floodplains.  The order directed
   federal agencies to avoid direct or indirect support of floodplain
   development wherever there is a practicable alternative.


   Protection of Wetlands: Executive Order No. 11990, 1977.  May 24, l977,
   42 F.R. 26961

             This order directs all federal agencies to avoid to the
   extent possible the long and short term adverse impacts associated with
   the destruction or modification of wetlands and to avoid direct or
   Indirect support of new construction in wetlands wherever there is a
   practicable alternative.


   Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act,
   1980.

   42 U.S.C. §§ 9601-9675, December 11, 1980, 1986-1988, 1990, 1992, 1994
   and 1996.

               This Act, popularly known as CERCLA, provides for the
   cleanup of sites contaminated by hazardous substances. It authorizes
   the federal government to clean up sites using the Hazardous Substance
   Superfund. It also imposes liability for cleanup on responsible parties
   and requires them to perform the cleanup, reimburse others for their
   cleanup expenses or reimburse the Fund when the Fund is used to pay for
   cleanup. The Act requires that responsible parties pay damages to the
   federal, state or tribal government for the destruction or loss of, or
   injury to, natural resources. CERCLA requires that the President revise
   and republish the National Contingency Plan (NCP) for the removal of
   oil and hazardous substances. The NCP must include a national hazardous
   substance response plan based on priorities defined in the National
   Priorities List (NPL).  The NPL provides the hazardous ranking system
   for chemicals (ranked by degree of potential harm to human health and
   to the environment.  One of the disturbing features of the act is that
   there is no liability if the party responsible for the release of a
   hazardous substance can establish that the release and the resulting
   damages were caused solely by an act of God.  Coastal storms could
   bring pond-stored chemicals into coastal wetlands and waters with
   substantial damage to wildlife and fishery resources.

             CERCLA was amended by the Superfund Amendments and
   Reauthorization Act (SARA) on October 17, 1986.  This allowed the
   continuation of clean-up activities at Superfund sites.  It also
   authorized the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
   (EPCRA), and included additional enforcement authorities.


   Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act (CWPPRA),
   1990. 16 U.S.C. §§ 3951-3956, November 29, 1990, as amended 1991 and
   1996.

             The Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection, and Restoration
   Act of 1990 (CWPPR) is the significant legislation aimed at protecting
   and restoring coastal wetlands.  This bill was introduced by Senator
   John Breaux of Louisiana after he recognized the importance of coastal
   wetlands and how fast they were disappearing particularly in
   Louisiana.  The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service conducted the National
   Wetlands Trends Analysis study beginning in 1978.  In the study they
   noted changes in wetlands from 1950 to 1970 by analyzing aerial
   photographs.  They found that during those 20 years 400,000 acres of
   coastal marshes and mangrove swamps were destroyed.  Current estimates
   of coastal marsh loss in Louisiana alone are about 8760 acres per
   year.

             Coastal salt marshes and mangrove swamps are important
   wintering areas for waterfowl and breeding grounds for wading birds.
   These habitats are also important nursery areas for sport and
   commercial fish, shrimp, and crabs.  Continued loss of these habitats
   will adversely affect fishery production. The causes of the destruction
   are multiple; some are: rise in sea level, subsidence of the coastal
   plain, levee construction, channelization, oil and gas extraction,
   dredging and filling for housing, municipalities, and industrial
   developments.  Thus, the marshes were drowned, dug up, washed away, or
   burried.  CWPPR projects are attempting to rebuild coastal salt marsh
   and to reinforce protective barrier islands to prevent further marsh
   loss.




                               [sumhorsa.gif]

   Section II.

   Relative abundance maps.

                                [gislab.gif]

     [biogeoprgmnos.jpg]


                               [bsdistrb.jpg]

        Maps available at this web site show relative abundance
   distributions of managed fishery species in the Gulf of Mexico. The
   maps were developed through cooperative efforts between the National
   Marine Fisheries Service SEFSC Fisheries Ecology Branch in Galveston,
   TX and NOAA-NOS's Biogeography Program in Silver Spring, MD.
   Relative abundance estimates were obtained from the Estuarine Living
   Marine Resources (ELMR) database. ELMR was substantially upgraded by
   the Biogeography Program in support of the EFH effort.

                   [ Estuaries ] [ Regions ] [ Gulfwide ]
   Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
   Adobe System Incorporated Adobe Acrobat^® Reader
   is required to see the PDF data.      The maps are presented in a
   compressed data format (PDF) for viewing with the Adobe Acrobat Reader.
   Although some resolution is lost by the compression, we chose this
   format to save time downloading, permit zooming in on particular
   sub-areas of maps, and to permit viewing on both the PC and Macintosh
   platforms. Adobe Acrobat Reader is available as a free download from
   Adobe. Click the icon to the left to access this free download.
   NOAA Home Page      There are three categories of maps (Estuaries,
   Regions, Gulf-wide). Individual estuary maps are located in the first
   section with adults and juveniles of each species mapped separately for
   four salinity seasons. The four salinity season maps have been placed
   on one page to facilitate comparisons. Information about
   estuary-specific salinity seasons is presented in Table 1 on the
   Estuaries page. Some estuaries of interest may not be listed by name,
   but may be viewed by accessing a named, adjacent estuary. The regional
   maps consolidate information on estuaries into three coastal regions:
   Texas, Louisiana-Mississippi-Alabama, and Florida. These regional maps
   show relative abundance by calendar seasons because salinity seasons
   differ among adjacent estuaries. Adults and juveniles are also mapped
   separately as they were for individual estuaries. The third mapping
   category is for Gulf-wide maps of selected species and habitats showing
   general distribution patterns.
   Map Sections:
     Estuaries Regions Gulfwide

   For additional EFH products visit the NOS Strategic Environmental
   Assessments Division's EFH web site.




                               [sumhorsa.gif]
   Section III. Monitoring created salt marshes.


                                [abs5at.jpg]

                                [mapping.jpg]

                   (click to use GB marsh mapping utility)

                               [gregmish.jpg]
   Our Concern:

        Extensive losses of coastal wetlands in the United States caused
   by sea-level rise, land subsidence, erosion, and coastal development
   have increased interest in the creation of salt marshes within
   estuaries. Smooth cordgrass, Spartina alterniflora, is the species
   utilized most for salt marsh creation and restoration throughout the
   Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the U.S., and has been used extensively in
   Galveston Bay. A recent study of status and trends in the Galveston Bay
   area (White et al. 1993, GBNEP-31) indicated that there had been a net
   loss of about 35,000 acres of wetlands and aquatic habitats between
   1950 and 1989. About 26,000 acres of this loss was the conversion of
   emergent marsh to open water due largely to human induced subsidence
   and to sea-level rise.

                               [noaalogo.jpg]

                                [gislab.gif]
        Salt marshes have many valuable functions for the surrounding
   habitat and the animals living there. Some of their physical functions
   are: protecting shorelines from erosion, stabilizing deposits of
   dredged material, dampening flood effects, trapping water-born
   sediments, and serving as nutrient reservoirs. Some of their biological
   functions are: acting as tertiary water treatment systems to rid
   coastal waters of contaminants, serving as nurseries for many juvenile
   fish and shellfish species, serving as habitat for various wildlife
   species, and providing plant material for the base of a detritus-based
   food web. The abundance of coastal marshes has been correlated with
   fisheries landings (Turner 1977, Boesch and Turner 1984). Marshes
   function for aquatic species by providing breeding areas, refuges from
   predation, and rich feeding grounds (Zimmerman and Minello 1984, Boesch
   and Turner 1984, Kneib 1984, 1987, Minello and Zimmerman 1991). These
   studies indicate marshes do this better than the open water habitats.
        The establishment of vegetation in itself is generally sufficient
   to provide the physical functions, but the development of the
   biological functions of salt marsh is more difficult to assess. The
   value of created marshes versus that of natural marshes for estuarine
   animals has been questioned (Cammen 1976, Race and Christie 1982,
   Broome 1989, Pacific Estuarine Research Laboratory 1990, LaSalle et al.
   1991, Minello and Zimmerman 1992, Zedler 1993). Restoration of all salt
   marsh functions is necessary to prevent habitat creation and
   restoration activities from having a negative impact on estuarine
   fisheries populations. For this reason alone, we need to keep track of
   the created marshes and how well they develop the biological functions
   if we are to assess their equality to natural salt marshes.


                                  [gbf.jpg]

                                [mapping.jpg]

                               (click to use)

                                [image20.gif]

                             Partner in mapping.

                   Friends of NMFS salt marsh monitoring.
        Many salt marsh restoration and creation projects have been
   implemented in the Galveston Bay System during the past 20 years. We
   have been able to list many  that were done to stabilize eroding
   shoreline and to restore salt marsh (Matthews and Minello, 1994). Many
   of these projects were done by volunteers guided by the Galveston Bay
   Foundation (GBF).  Some were private constructions required by the U.S.
   Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) as mitigation for permitted alterations
   of natural  salt marshes. One at Atkinson Island was a large
   demonstration project by ACE that utilized bottom sediments from
   channel dredging. Implementation of more dredged material containment
   and utilization projects with marsh creation are currently underway or
   are in our near future.
        Each year more marshes are being built, and yet very little
   information is available concerning the success of past restoration
   projects. It is essential that we monitor created marshes and obtain
   information concerning their success and development through the years.
   Doing so will help us refine the requirements for successful marsh
   creation. Please check our bibliography section for literature
   references to salt marsh restoration and ecology.  Also check our map
   to see if your created marsh site has been recorded; if not, perhaps
   you could contact us and share your information.  It would be greatly
   appreciated.

        We would be delighted to hear from you about salt marsh
   restoration and creation projects. Please use our monitoring-mapping
   utility to see locations, data, and imagery of salt marsh creation
   sites in Galveston Bay. Any information and pictures you can provide to
   help complete our inventory would be greatly appreciated.  Please
   contact Jeff Matthews at NMFS, 409-766-3518.



                               [sumhorsa.gif]

   Section IV. Literature.


                            EFH Amendment primer

   Open a "primer" to the EFH amendment (118KB) by clicking on the pdf
   icon at the left.

                                EFH Amendment

   Open the EFH Amendment (962KB) by clicking on the pdf icon at the left.

                                   [pdf.gif]
   "Modeling Nekton Habitat use in Galveston Bay, Texas: An Approach to
   Define Essential Fish Habitat (EFH)." NOS Biogeography Prgm. Tech. Rpt.
   #17. (3.71MB)
   Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
   Adobe System Incorporated Adobe Acrobat^® Reader
   is required to see the PDF data.

   (The EFH Amendment and the "primer" are in Adobe Acrobat file format.
   To download the documents instead of opening them into your browser
   window do the following:

     MS Internet Explorer: move the mouse cursor onto the pdf icon, click
     the right mouse button, and select "Save Target As..."
     Netscape Navigator: move the mouse cursor onto the pdf icon, click
     the right mouse button, and select "Save Link As...")


   [pdf.gif]       [endnote.jpg]
   1 This list of literature refers to works that we have found useful in
   building an understanding of salt marshes, both as to their functions
   and their creation or restoration. It is not comprehensive, it is just
   a start.
   [pdf.gif]      [endnote.jpg]      2 This list of literature refers to
   works that we have found useful in building an understanding of
   seagrass beds.  We are making it available in both EndNote and Adobe
   Acrobat formats. See our Links section for web sites with seagrass
   information.
    3 Reports and scientific journal publications of studies conducted by
   the NMFS Galveston Laboratory personnel and their associates are
   provided in Adobe Acrobat format.
    4 Technical Memoranda published by the SE Fisheries Science Center
   cover a wide variety of topics all related to our "fisheries" and
   "fisheries habitats."


                               [sumhorsa.gif]

   Section V.

              [Link1.jpg]
   Links to websites for the environment and fisheries.


   Local and Regional National and International
   Galveston Bay Foundation National Marine Fisheries Service  "NOAA
   Fisheries"
   Coastal Conservation Association of Texas NMFS Scientific Publications
   Office
   NMFS Office of Habitat Conservation
   Galveston Bay Information Network National Ocean Service Biogeography
   Program
   NOS National Estuarine Research Reserve
   Houston-Galveston Area Council NOS Sustainable Seas Expeditions
   Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission Estuarine Research
   Federation
   Texas Parks and Wildlife Department Nature Conservancy and TNC of Texas
   Gulf Estuarine Research Society Environmental Protection Agency
   Environmental Institute of Houston Restore America's Estuaries
   Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana Chesapeake Bay Foundation
   Citizen's Environmental Coalition North Carolina Coastal Federation
   Houston Audubon Society Audobon Society
