http://www.stennis.gov/senator.html


   [senatorlogo.gif]

   [USEMAP:senatormenu.gif]

                                                            STENNIS CENTER

                                                         Board of Trustees

                                                                   Mission

                                                                     Staff

                                                                  PROGRAMS

                                                            Civil-Military
                                                                Leadership

                                                        Congress to Campus

                                                          Emerging Leaders

                                                           Stennis Fellows

                                                                   Stennis
                                                          Student Congress

                                                         Southern Women in
                                                            Public Service

                                                           Truman Scholars

                                             USS STENNIS Leadership Awards

                                                           SENATOR STENNIS

                                                  John C Stennis Biography

                                                        The Stennis Legacy

                                                            100th Birthday
                                                               Celebration

                                                                ADDITIONAL
                                                               INFORMATION

                                                          Government Links

                                                     Policy Institutions &
                                                    Public Service Centers

                                                   Public Service Partners

                                                    Public Service Careers









   In his final United States Senate re-election campaign in 1982, John
   Stennis was faced with the most challenging race since his first Senate
   election in 1947. At an early campaign strategy meeting, he was
   bombarded with advice from campaign consultants on what to expect from
   the opponent and what would be required to win the race. He listened
   politely to the authoritative statements from the campaign experts who
   prefaced each imperative with: "To win, we will have to do this." When
   the consultants paused to catch their breath, Senator Stennis seized
   the opportunity to inform them of a point he considered very important.
   "There is one thing you really need to understand before we go any
   further," he told them as he looked each one in the eye around the
   table. "We don't have to win."

   It was his way of letting them know that his principles and values were
   much more important than winning an election. Despite the fact that
   none of the suggested tactics were in any way unethical or illegal, his
   personal character and integrity would not be compromised, even
   slightly. He would not engage in anything he considered in the least
   bit deceptive, no matter the consequences.

   John Stennis offered himself for public office 13 times during his
   60-year political career, and never lost.

   He took his final breath on April 23, 1995 and slipped quietly away
   from the world he had impacted greatly. He accumulated immense power
   and influence during his 93-year lifetime, and used it to benefit those
   with whom he always said the power ultimately resided: the people. He
   never lost perspective through a political career that spanned six
   decades and took him to the highest pinnacles of power in the
   legislative branch of the United States government. His leadership and
   wise counsel are sorely missed, but we continue to have the one thing
   we need most: his example.

   To virtually everyone who knew him personally, John Stennis was a role
   model. Not only to his colleagues in the Senate, who called him a
   "Senator's Senator," but to all who admired the way he lived his life.
   For those who labor in fields of public service, his example is
   especially meaningful and applicable. John Stennis demonstrated the
   qualities and characteristics Americans desperately want, and deserve,
   in their public officials.

   Integrity, courage, commitment to duty, and hard work are among the
   principles that mark the life and career of John Stennis. At the root
   was his unwavering faith in God and love for people that drove him to
   overcome obstacles and persevere through physical hardships that would
   have overwhelmed most.

   John Stennis served in the United States Senate nearly 42 years, the
   second-longest tenure in the history of our nation. From his election
   to the Mississippi House of Representatives in 1928, to his retirement
   as President Pro Tempore of the United States Senate in 1989, he was
   under continuous oath of public office. His achievements are legend. It
   is truly remarkable that throughout this long and highly productive
   career, his honesty and integrity never came into question.

   Senator Stennis never stopped marveling at the beauty and majesty of
   the dome that towers above the United States Capitol where he spent so
   many long days and nights. He often remarked on its significance as a
   symbol of freedom and democracy, not only for Americans, but for people
   throughout the world who look to the United States as a nation that
   stands for what is right and just. "We must never let it become common
   in our sight," he would say as he gazed admiringly at the brightly
   illuminated dome against the night sky.

   The life and career of John Stennis is also a monument to what can be
   achieved through public service. We need to illuminate his example, and
   hold it high for others to follow. Surely, it will never become common
   in our sight.

   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
