http://cio.ost.dot.gov/it_security/index.html

   CIO- Chief Information Officer for the DOT

   CIO- Chief Information Officer for the DOT Corner Image Link to DOT

   Home About Us Contact Us Site Map

   questions



   topics

   arrow IT Security
   spacer Main
   arrow E-Government
   arrow Capital Planning
   arrow Enterprise Architecture
   arrow Operations
   arrow Strategic Planning
         & Policy
   arrow DOT CIO Council

   search bar

                               _______________
                                   Search
                               Advanced Search

                               firstgov button

   Information Technology (IT) Security Program

      Dramatic increases in computer connectivity are revolutionizing the way
      our government, our nation, and the world communicate and conduct
      business - the benefits have been enormous. However, with these
      benefits have come significant risks to our information technology (IT)
      systems and, more importantly, to the critical operations they support.

      The Department of Transportation (DOT) relies heavily on the use of IT
      to conduct our business. Maintaining the security of these IT systems
      is vital to the mission of DOT. The Office of the Chief Information
      Officer (OCIO) is responsible for the overall management and guidance
      of the Department's IT Security Program. The OCIO develops and
      promulgates IT Security policy and guidance for DOT. The DOT Operating
      Administrations are responsible for the implementation of this policy
      in the management of their IT systems. The vision for the IT Security
      Program is:


   A World Class Program that Enables the Safety, Mobility, and Efficiency
                of the Critical Transportation Infrastructure

      Within the DOT, we are committed to a World Class IT Security Program
      that protects the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our
      critical systems and data. Our program is formed on the basis of risk
      management principles - an organization must understand the business
      requirements for IT, identify the threat and associated vulnerabilities
      of IT operations, and implement cost-effective countermeasures to
      mitigate the risk. Our program consists of the following components:
        * Agency Security Strategy -- The goals for the IT Security Program
          are documented in the DOT performance plan, and are tied to the
          budget via the IT Capital Planning Process.
        * Department-Wide Governance Structure -- The policies and procedures
          for the IT Security program are outlined in the Department
          Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM). These policies and
          procedures define the requirements for IT security, as derived from
          legislative requirements, federal policies and procedures.
        * A Technical Framework -- Technical security controls are those
          controls within a computer system or network that protect the
          system from attackers. They are reviewed during the certification
          and accreditation process and during audits. The Department is also
          currently integrating security standards as a component of the
          Enterprise Architecture Process.
        * Security Management Programs -- These programs define an
          organizational framework for identifying and assessing risks,
          deciding what policies and controls are needed, periodically
          evaluating the effectiveness of these policies and controls, and
          acting to address any identified weaknesses. Department-Wide
          Security Management Programs include Incident Response,
          Certification and Accreditation, Risk Management, Service
          Continuity, and Performance Measurement.

        Graphic provides a pyramid diagram of the description of the DOT IT
      security program. At the top is the agency security strategy, followed
       by the governance structure, technical framework, security management
        programs sitting on the base of enterprise architecture and capital
                                     planning.

      As shown in the illustration, the success of our program is enabled by
      people, process, and technology. Questions regarding our program should
      be directed to Lisa Schlosser, Associate CIO, IT Security, at
      202.366.0629.

      Related Links
        * The United States General Accounting Office has a wide variety of
          recent reports regarding IT Security: Click Here For More
        * The Computer Security Resource Center contains links to all types
          of policies and guidance related to Federal IT Security: Click Here
          For More
        * Federal CIO Council Best Security Practices: Click Here For More




   Home | IT Security | E-Government | Capital Planning | Architecture |
                    Operations | Policies | CIO Council
             About Us | CIO Activities | Contact Us | Site Map

                  U.S. DOT Privacy Notice and Disclaimer
