http://www.sst.nrel.gov/funding/funding.html

                       Research Proposal Funding for the
                        Solid State Theory Group (NREL)

                   Description of Funding Sources and Grants
                    Awarded to the Solid State Theory Group

Sources of Funding

    1. Energy Efficiency (EE) Photovoltaics Office of U.S. Department of
       Energy --- funding for applied work on photovoltaic semiconductors.
    2. Basic Energy Sciences (BES) Office of Energy Research, Division of
       Materials Science (DMC) --- funding for basic research on
       semiconductors, metals, oxides, and method development.

Grants

    1.

   "Theory for Photovoltaic P.I.’s: A. Zunger, S.H. Wei and S.B. Zhang
   Semiconductors" (PV90) First Funding Year: 1978
   Source: DOE Office of Energy Efficiency Duration: Ongoing
       Provide the fundamental research underpinning the theory of
       photovoltaic thin-film semiconductors, so as to enhance and
       accelerate advances in the national photovoltaic technology and R&D
       program. Objectives for achieving this goal include: (a) studies of
       the fundamental physical properties of CdS/CdTe alloys, interfaces
       and impurities; (b) study of defects in ZnO and explore new
       (including p-type) transparent conductors; (c) explore surface
       physics and surface defects in CuInSe[2]; and, (d) maintenance,
       updating and system administration of the Solid State Theory
       Computer Network while developing new computational algorithms for
       larger-scale and more accurate calculations for PV materials. This
       project is limited to PV absorbers (band gaps 1-1.5eV) and window
       materials.
    2.

       "Semiconductor Theory" (ER62) P.I.: A. Zunger
       Source: BES-OER-DMS           First Funding Year: 1983 Duration: Ongoing
       First-Principles band structure, total energy, and statistical
       mechanical methods are used to predict electronic and structural
       properties of energy-related semiconductor superlattices, surfaces,
       alloys and nanostructures, emphasizing chemical trends and
       properties of new, energy-related materials. Current work includes:
       (1) prediction of optical and dielectric properties of
       semiconductor quantum dots, wires, and films including
       configuration interactions (CdSe, GaAs, InP); (2) first-principles
       prediction of alloy thermodynamic quantities (e.g., phase-diagrams)
       for bulk semiconductors and metallic alloys, e.g., CuAu, CuAg,
       NiAu, AgAu, PdV, CuPd; (3) calculation of electronic properties of
       novel nitride alloys; and, (4) prediction of properties of unusual
       ternary materials, e.g., ordered vacancy compounds. Theoretical
       tools include (a) the total energy non-local pseudopotential method
       and full-potential linearized augmented plane wave (LAPW) method,
       (b) the cluster expansion ("LEGO") approach to the Ising program,
       applied to binary and pseudobinary phase diagrams, and (c)
       Monte-Carlo and simulated-annealing calculations of Ising models
       derived from first-principles.
    3.

   "Growth and Properties of Novel P.I.’s: A. Mascarenhas, J. Olson, A.
   Zunger
   Ordered Semiconductor Alloys" (ER20) First Funding Year: 1991 Source:
   BES-OER-DMS Duration: Ongoing
       This project combines experimental with theoretical efforts aimed
       at understanding spontaneous long-range order in isovalent
       III-V/III-V and semiconductor alloys. It includes: (i) MOCVD and
       MBE growth of III-V alloys such as GaP/InP, A1P/GaP, A1P/InP,
       A1As/InAs, and GaAs/GaP; (ii) Raman, modulation reflectance
       photoluminescence, spectroscopic ellipsometry and reflectance
       difference spectroscopy studies of ordering in the above systems;
       and, (iii) first-principles theoretical studies of surface-induced,
       epitaxially-induced and bulk ordering in various alloys, as well as
       prediction of optical consequences of ordering (polarization
       anisotropy, band gap narrowing, crystal field splitting, electric
       fields, band offsets, NMR gradients).
    4.

   "Atomic and Nanoscale Engineering of P.I.’s: L. Kazmerski, A. Zunger,
   J. Woodall
   Semiconductors using STM" (ER47) First Funding Year: 1996 Source:
   BES-Advanced Energy Projects Duration: 1996-1998
       This project uses a novel method for atomic-scale engineering of
       semiconductors, leading to advances in understanding and their
       improvement. It consists of three linked segments: (a) preparation
       by MBE and MOCVD of State-of-the Art GaInAs and GaInAsP alloys
       surfaces; (b) use of the novel atomic processing microscope (APM)
       to image, process (including atom removal and placement) and
       characterize these semiconductors in the same nanoscale spatial
       resolutions; and, (c) use of modern electronic structure theory
       (pseudopotential total energy calculations) to predict the
       properties of semiconductor surfaces before and after atomic-scale
       engineering takes place. The program is directed toward the
       semiconductors GaInAs and GaInAsP, that have applications to solid
       state and energy technologies, namely thermophotovoltaics. These
       atomic scale investigations involve the manipulation of atoms in
       order to study the fundamental defect properties that limit both
       material properties and device III-V materials, and provides
       fundamental information of the nature of defects, their
       electro-optical properties, the ability to electronically heal them
       with intrinsic and extrinsic atomic species, and further the
       frontiers of materials science with these novel approaches to
       investigating material limitations. This project links events on
       the atomic scale to the current understanding of semiconductor
       surface properties.
    5.

   "Composition Modulated Semiconductor Structures P.I.’s: A. Mascarenhas
   & A. Zunger
   for Photovoltaics and Optical Technologies" (ER60) First Funding Year:
   1996 Source: BES-OER-DMS Duration: Ongoing
       This is a joint project between NREL and Sandia National
       Laboratories involving the study of spontaneous composition
       modulation in III-V semiconductor alloys. The main efforts in this
       program are: (1) MBE growth of III-V ternary alloys and short
       period superlattices such as InAs/A1As, InAs/GaAs, InP/GaP, which
       exhibit composition modulation (Sandia); (2) electron microscopy,
       electron diffraction, x-ray, and atomic force microscopy studies of
       spontaneously compositionally modulated structures (Sandia and
       NREL); (3) polarized photoluminescence, ellipsometry, excitation
       spectroscopy, differential absorption, modulated reflectance, time
       resolved photoluminescence, and magnetoluminescence studies on
       spontaneously composition modulated structures; and, (4)
       theoretical studies on the electronic properties of compositionally
       modulated alloys - including large-supercell pseudopotential
       calculations, exploring the way that the composition modulation
       wavelength, amplitude and direction affects the material properties
       of otherwise random GaInAs, A1InAs and GaInP alloys (NREL).
    6.

   "Structurally Tolerant Electronic Oxides" (ER65) P.I.’s: D. Ginley, A.
   Zunger, T. Ciszek, P. Parilla
   Source: BES-OER-DMS First Funding Year: 1997 Duration: Ongoing
       Structurally tolerant metal oxides serve as transparent conductors
       (SnO[2], In[2]O[3]) in thin film photovoltaics and flat panel
       displays, as electrochromic layers (WO[3]) in windows and displays,
       and as electrodes in high energy density rechargeable Li batteries
       (V[2]O[5] and LiCO[2]). Relationship between the structural,
       electronic and optical properties are studied. We develop a
       predictive theoretical model of the interplay between
       structure/doping, and the electronic/optical properties using
       cluster expansion methods, combined with ab-initio electronic
       structure.
    7.

   "Computer-Aided Predictions of Energetics P.I.’s: C. Wolverton & A.
   Zunger
   and Thermodynamics of Light Metal Alloys" (ER67) First Funding Year:
   1997 Source: BES-OER-PNGV Initiatives Duration: 1997-1999
       Predictions of energetic and thermodynamic properties of light
       aluminum-based alloys, particularly as they pertain to issues of
       stability, metastability, structural properties, and states of
       order (Al-Mg; Al-Cu; Al-Zn). Clarification of the energetics and
       thermodynamics of these alloys, thereby leading to a more detailed
       understanding of processes involved in quenching experiments,
       precipitation kinetics, and ultimately microstructure and
       processing of these automotive alloys. Properties investigated by a
       combination of first-principles quantum and statistical mechanical
       calculations, affording the opportunity of stable and metastable
       structures, ordered and disordered alloys, and bulk and non-bulk
       geometries, both at zero and finite temperatures.
    8.

   "Utilization of Clean Energy by Overcoming Doping P.I.’s: S. Zhang,
   S.H. Wei, A. Zunger
   Bottlenecks in Semiconductors and Wide Gap Materials" (EROK) First
   Funding Year: 1999 Source: BES-OER-CO[2] Initiative Duration: Ongoing
       Doping semiconductors and wide-band-gap materials are essential for
       device applications in clean affordable energy generation and in
       improved energy efficiency, thus vital for our nation’s long-term
       Carbon management program, as well as for other energy programs.
       Yet, there are strong doping bottlenecks that may severely restrict
       potential applications of semiconductors, especially in
       wide-band-gap materials where bipolar doping is impossible. Recent
       rapid progress in semiconductor research has reached a point where
       these doping limitations must be overcome in order to tune
       semiconductors for precisely required properties. Here, we study
       what causes the doping bottlenecks by first principles total energy
       calculations. We base our studies on a set of recent, novel
       developments regarding the doping limitations: the "doping limit
       rule" distilled from both phenomenological studies and from
       first-principles calculations. The doping bottlenecks are
       identified in this project as due mainly to the formation of
       intrinsic defects whose formation enthalpies depend on the Fermi
       energy, and thus always act to negate the effect of doping. We test
       systematically the various existing microscopic defect models and
       develop new models to understand the physics of doping. A number of
       new strategies for overcoming the doping bottlenecks are also
       studied.
