http://ccl.dss.cahwnet.gov/docs/exemption.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   Criminal Record Exemption Process



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   The Exemption Process

   The Law

   The California Health and Safety Code requires a background check of
   all applicants, licensees, adult residents, volunteers under certain
   conditions and employees of community care facilities who have contact
   with clients.  If the California Department of Social Services finds
   that an individual has been convicted of a crime other than a minor
   traffic violation, the individual can not work or be present in any
   community care facility unless they request a criminal record exemption
   from the Community Care Licensing Division, Caregiver Background Check
   Bureau (CBCB).  Simply defined, an exemption is a Department authorized
   written document that "exempts" the individual from the requirement of
   having a criminal record clearance. In some circumstances, the
   individual will be permitted to work in the facility while the
   exemption is being evaluated.  In other cases, such as with felony
   convictions or violent misdemeanors, the individual must be removed
   from the facility.  CBCB also examines arrest records to determine if
   there is a possible danger to clients (Health & Safety Code sections
   1522, 1568.08, 1569.17, and 1596.871).

   How the Background Check is Conducted

   When an individual submits a fingerprint card or Live Scan transmittal,
   the California Department of Justice (DOJ) conducts a background
   check.  If the individual has no criminal history, DOJ will forward a
   clearance notice to the applicant or licensee and to CBCB. If the
   individual has a criminal history, DOJ will send a transcript to CBCB.
   The criminal record transcript will show arrests and convictions,
   including misdemeanors and felonies. CBCB staff will review the
   transcript and notify the facility immediately by telephone if the
   individual must be removed from the facility. CBCB will then send an
   exemption notification letter to the applicant or licensee. The letter
   explains how to request an exemption and lists requirements for the
   exemption. If the individual must be removed from the facility, he/she
   may not return until an exemption is granted by CBCB. CBCB can not
   remove a person from his/her own home.

   To request an exemption the individual must submit:

     * A description of the capacity in which the individual will be
       associated with the licensed facility.
     * A written request from the licensee/applicant on behalf of the
       individual.
     * A written request from the affected individual on his/her own
       behalf if the licensee chooses not to request an exemption and
       terminates the individual from employment.
     * A copy of the signed Criminal Record Statement (LIC-508) that was
       completed at the time of hire.
     * A written statement signed by the individual describing the events
       surrounding each conviction including the approximate date, what
       happened, why it happened, and any other information he/she feels
       is important about the crime. The individual shall also address
       what he/she has done or how his/her life has changed to prevent
       him/her from committing this type of offense again.
     * Verification of any training, educational classes, therapy,
       counseling sessions or other supporting information such as a
       Certificate of Rehabilitation.
     * Three signed character reference letters including the telephone
       number and address of the person writing the letter. Character
       reference letters must be current and can not be from the
       individual's relatives or family members nor from employees
       associated with the licensed facility. The character reference
       letters must be dated.
     * The individual's current mailing address and telephone number.

   What Convictions Require an Exemption?

   All convictions other than minor traffic violations, including
   misdemeanors, felonies and convictions that occurred a long time ago
   require an exemption.

   Role of the Community Care Facility

   When an applicant or licensee receives an exemption notification letter
   from CBCB concerning an employee, volunteer or adult resident, he/she
   must decide whether to request the exemption for that individual. If an
   exemption is desired, the licensee must assist the individual by
   mailing all exemption documentation to CBCB. If the licensee does not
   wish to pursue the exemption, and subsequently terminates the employee
   or removes the non-client adult resident, the licensee must give that
   person the "Individual Exemption Request" included with the
   notification letter. This document allows the individual to request an
   exemption on his/her own behalf. A person seeking an individual
   exemption may not be present in any community care facility until an
   exemption is approved by CBCB.

   Prospective foster parents applying for certification through a foster
   family agency can not seek an individual exemption. The foster family
   agency must decide if an exemption is desired. However, employees of a
   foster family agency can seek an individual exemption.

   Child Abuse Central Index (CACI)

   The Child Abuse Central Index name check is an additional background
   check required for individuals associated to any facility that cares
   for children. This requirement became effective January 1, 1986. If the
   CACI check is required, an exemption can not be granted until this
   portion of the background check is also cleared. Effective January 1,
   1999, the Department of Justice now provides CBCB with notification of
   any subsequent incidents of child abuse after the initial clearance.

   Deadline for Exemptions

   All requested exemption documents must be received by CBCB no later
   than 30 days from the date of the exemption notification letter. If
   documentation is not received by the deadline, the case will be closed.

   If an exemption is requested, it will take at least sixty (60) days to
   process.

   Notification of Decision

   The applicant or licensee seeking the exemption will be notified in
   writing of CBCB's decision. With individual exemption requests, the
   individual seeking the exemption will be notified.

   Right to Appeal

   If an exemption is denied, the individual may request an appeal in
   writing. The appeal must be received by the Department of Social
   Services no later than 15 days from the date of the denial notification
   letter. Appeals received after the deadline will not be considered.

   Transferring an Exemption

   With the approval of CBCB, an exemption may be transferred to a similar
   community care facility. A facility seeking an exemption transfer must
   submit the following requirements to CBCB:

     * Form LIC 9188 (Criminal Record Exemption Transfer Request);
     * Form LIC 508 (Criminal Record Statement) with a written explanation
       of all convictions;
     * A copy of a valid California driver's license or valid photo ID;
     * A duty statement or job description.

   In addition, facilities serving children must submit a new Child Abuse
   Central Index check to the Department of Justice with $15 if the
   previous CACI clearance is dated prior to January 1, 1999.

     * Alert! - Child Day Care
     * Normal Timeframes for Background Check Processing

              [Home ] [ Up ] [ Live Scan Application Process ]
                [ Applicant Child Abuse Central Index Check ]
   [ Live Scan Locations and Hours ] [ Criminal Record Exemption Process ]
                       [ Background Check Timeframes ]


   Revised 01/02

                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
