http://www.rma.usda.gov/news/r-and-d/2002/pdf/rd02-006.pdf

   United States Department of Agriculture Farm and Foreign Agricultural
   Services Risk Management Agency January 17, 2001 INFORMATIONAL
   MEMORANDUM: R&D-02-006 TO: Sesame Producer Groups All Risk Management
   Agency Field Offices All Reinsured Companies FROM: Tim B. Witt /s/ Tim
   B. Witt Deputy Administrator SUBJECT: Request for Input from Sesame
   Producer Groups BACKGROUND: The Risk Management Agency (RMA) intends to
   obtain input from producer groups before entering into contracts for
   research and development to increase participation in areas or for
   agricultural commodities that may be underserved by the Federal crop
   insurance program. RMA believes this input is critical in determining
   the need and direction of research and potential development. ACTION:
   RMA requests input from groups or individuals representing sesame
   producers so that their needs, concerns, and other input may be
   considered before it enters into a contract for the research and
   possible development of risk management strategies or products for
   producers of this commodity. Of particular interest is any input that
   would help RMA determine the extent that producers want RMA to pursue
   such research and potential development of risk management strategies
   or products. RMA is also interested in receiving specific suggestions
   and concerns regarding the structure, scope, and limitations producers
   and producer groups want to be considered for such strategies or
   products. Anyone who is aware of insurance protection that is generally
   available from private companies to cover the risks that would likely
   be covered by recommended risk management strategies or products, is
   encouraged to advise RMA accordingly as indicated below. 6501 Beacon
   Drive $ Kansas City, MO 64133 The Risk Management Agency Administers
   and Oversees All Programs Authorized Under the Federal Crop Insurance
   Corporation An Equal Opportunity Employer INFORMATIONAL MEMORANDUM:
   R&D-02-006 Please provide your input to Maureen Flood by February 28,
   2002, to assure its consideration. Ms. Flood may be reached by e-mail
   at "Margaret.Flood@rm.fcic.usda.gov," by fax at (816) 926-7343, or at
   the following postal address: Attention: Maureen Flood Research and
   Evaluation Division Risk Management Agency P. O. Box 419293, Stop 0813
   Kansas City, Missouri 64141-6293 Listed below are organizations and
   individuals that are being provided this Informational Memorandum.
   Anyone who is aware of other persons or organizations representing
   sesame producers is encouraged to provide a copy of this Informational
   Memorandum to them and/or to advise Ms. Flood how to contact them.
   Persons Bruce Gilleland Jimmy Meeks Billy Schwartz Organizations
   American Spice Trade Association Kansas Crop Improvement Association
   Kansas Department of Agriculture Kansas Grain and Feed Association New
   Mexico Crop Improvement Association New Mexico Department of
   Agriculture Oklahoma Crop Improvement Association Oklahoma Department
   of Agriculture Organic Crop Improvement Association Panhandle Grain and
   Feed Association Seeds of Faith Sesaco Corporation Texas Department of
   Agriculture Texas Organic Growers Association DISPOSAL DATE: This
   Informational Memorandum is effective until the disposal date, April
   30, 2002.
