http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/query_expansion.97.pdf

   Query Expansion Using the UMLS速 Metathesaurus速 Alan R. Aronson, Ph.D.
   and Thomas C. Rindflesch, Ph.D. National Library of Medicine Bethesda,
   MD 20894 ABSTRACT in greater detail its relationship to our work
   (Aronson Recent work has demonstrated the importance of et al., [5]),
   particularly with regard to the value of the query expansion for
   improving retrieval effectiveness UMLS Metathesaurus for information
   retrieval. when applying statistically-based systems to MED- Several
   variables contribute to the final outcome in LINE速 citations. The
   research has suggested the use any IR experiment: the type of retrieval
   system, the of retrieval feedback for enhancing the original text of
   indexing terms, the queries, and the test collection. If users'
   queries. As an alternative method of query two systems are to be
   compared with regard to one of expansion, we propose the use of the
   MetaMap pro- these variables the others must be kept constant (or gram
   for associating UMLS Metathesaurus concepts controlled for).
   Srinivasan's work is based on docu- with the original query. Our
   experiments show that ments which have human-assigned indexing terms
   query expansion based on MetaMap compares favor- associated with them.
   Her final results are due to the ably with retrieval feedback. We
   conclude that the accumulated effect of this indexing as well as docu-
   optimal strategy would be to combine the two tech- ment feedback used
   for query expansion. The results niques. reported in [5] are derived
   from documents without reference to human-assigned indexing terms and
   que- INTRODUCTION ries expanded through the use of the UMLS Meta- In a
   series of recent articles Srinivasan [1-4] explores thesaurus. In order
   to felicitously compare our method information retrieval in MEDLINE,
   focusing on two of query expansion to Srinivasan's, both systems need
   areas of the retrieval process, indexing [1] and query to be based on
   the same type of indexing. Therefore, expansion [2-4]. Her results with
   regard to query we would like to explore a comparison of our expansion
   can be summarized by quoting from [3]: approach to Srinivasan's work,
   concentrating on query expansion, and keeping the indexing constant In
   brief, the best result obtained using queries by using human-assigned
   MeSH速 terms. expanded via retrieval feedback was a 11-AvgP (described
   later) score of 0.6018. This represents QUERY EXPANSION BASED ON
   RETRIEVAL a statistically significant 16.4% improvement FEEDBACK over
   baseline 11-AvgP score of 0.5169 obtained with unexpanded queries. (p.
   354) Srinivasan [1] reports on a number of experiments which illustrate
   her overall approach. These experi- Srinivasan goes on to compare this
   result to other rele- ments are based on a test collection produced by
   vant work: "These papers show how the improve- Hersh et al. [6] which
   comprises 75 queries and 2,344 ments in retrieval performance are
   superior to those MEDLINE citations. Each citation includes a title, an
   obtained by the alternative methods..." [3:354] In con- abstract, and
   MeSH indexing terms assigned by trasting her work to ours Srinivasan
   states: "In com- humans. The retrieval system used is SMART, a vec-
   parison with the approach of Aronson et al., the tor space model
   (Salton, [7]). All results are reported improvements achieved using
   retrieval feedback are in terms of 11-point average precision. much
   higher than the 4% improvement in precision that they report." [4:164]
   In comparing retrieval feed- Query expansion (Efthimiadis, [8]) is a
   technique for back to methods based on the UMLS Metathesaurus improving
   effectiveness in information retrieval sys- she says: "Although the
   metathesaurus offers an tems. Research in automatic methods, which do
   not extremely rich vocabulary, it appears that further burden the user,
   is of particular importance. As a innovation and research are needed to
   make profitable means of query expansion, Srinivasan employs use of
   this global medical thesaurus for information retrieval feedback based
   on relevance feedback (Ide, retrieval." [4:164] We consider this
   research to be [9]). In this technique salient terms from the top few
   interesting and significant and would like to examine relevant
   documents retrieved from an initial query are used to produce a second,
   expanded query which per- In a separate study [2] Srinivasan reports on
   query forms better than the initial, unexpanded query. Rele- expansion
   based on a statistical thesaurus in addition vance feedback is
   effective, but the user must choose to document feedback. The thesaurus
   contains statisti- the documents which contribute to the expanded cal
   correlations between MeSH terms and text and is query. In retrieval
   feedback the system automatically consulted during retrieval in order
   to add MeSH terms computes salient terms for inclusion in the expanded
   to the query. The thesaurus-based query expansion query, without input
   from the user. Tests in the context produces an increase in average
   precision over the of the TREC experiments (Harmon, [10]) have dem-
   baseline, but it is not as high as that achieved with onstrated that
   retrieval feedback as a method of query feedback-based query expansion.
   The best result expansion increases average precision, and Srini-
   reported in [2] using a statistical thesaurus (and vasan's research
   supports those results. MeSH-indexed documents) is 56.8% average preci-
   In designing her experiments Srinivasan varies both sion, which is a
   9.9% increase over the baseline of the documents and the queries.
   Documents consist 51.7%, but only 2.2% over the average precision
   either of text only (MEDLINE title and abstract) or attained with
   MeSH-indexed text and unexpanded text along with the MeSH indexing
   terms assigned to queries. As a final step, Srinivasan combines her
   the- that document. Queries are comprised of either text saurus-based
   query expansion with her feedback alone or are expanded with terms
   derived from method and achieves a score of 60.5%. Since this rep-
   retrieval feedback. The experiments which are rele- resents a 17.1%
   increase over the baseline, it indicates vant to this study are the
   following: a) both documents that, although the results are not quite
   additive, and queries are text-only (this is the baseline); b) doc-
   retrieval feedback may be profitably combined with uments contain text
   along with MeSH indexing terms other methods of query expansion. and
   queries consist of text-only; and c) documents We felt it would be
   useful to explore the UMLS Meta- have both text and MeSH, and queries
   are expanded thesaurus-based query expansion discussed in [5] in with
   retrieval feedback. It is significant to note that the context of
   Srinivasan's research. In our earlier the query expansion process has
   access to the MeSH work we did not investigate the effects of applying
   our terms in the indexed documents and thus can add query expansion
   technique to MeSH-indexed text. appropriate MeSH terms to the text of
   the query. QUERY EXPANSION BASED ON METAMAP Srinivasan reports
   significant gains in average preci- AND THE UMLS METATHESAURUS sion
   using her methodology. Average precision for retrieval of relevant
   documents in the baseline experi- In conducting experiments parallel to
   Srinivasan's, we ment, where both documents and queries consist of used
   the test collection of Hersh et al. [6] and text-only, is 51.7%. Adding
   the MeSH terms to the INQUERY (Callan et al., [11]), an inference
   network- documents but leaving the queries unexpanded based
   probabilistic retrieval model. This information increases average
   precision to 55.6%, which is a 7.5% retrieval system readily
   accommodates multiple rep- increase over the baseline. Using expanded
   queries on resentations for both documents and queries (Rajas-
   MeSH-indexed text further increases average preci- hekar and Croft,
   [12]) and thus naturally supports sion to 60.2%. This represents a
   16.4% increase over documents either with or without MeSH indexing and
   the baseline average precision and an 8.3% increase queries in either
   original or expanded form. over the experiment based on indexed text,
   but with INQUERY supports a variety of document processing unexpanded
   queries. techniques including the control of case, stopping, These
   experiments demonstrate that both human stemming and indexing.
   INQUERY's default behavior indexing as represented by the MeSH terms in
   the includes ignoring case, performing stopping, employ- documents and
   retrieval feedback contribute to the ing K-stemming and using a single
   index for all overall improvement in average precision of 16.4% indexed
   fields. The experiments reported here rely on over the baseline figure.
   Apparently, each phenome- the default behavior except that Porter
   stemming is non contributes equally to the final result. Adding used
   instead of K-stemming. An example of a MED- human-assigned MeSH terms
   (but leaving the queries LINE document in SGML format acceptable to
   unexpanded) adds 7.5% to the base score (51.7% to INQUERY is 55.6%).
   Similarly, adding retrieval feedback query _DOC_ expansion to
   MeSH-indexed documents adds 8.3% to 2102 the score with unexpanded
   queries (55.6% to 60.2%). Forty-nine nonsteroid-dependent children The
   original queries are expanded using the phrases hospitalized with
   status asthmaticus were random- and concepts found by MetaMap. This is
   accom- ized to receive IV placebo or methylprednisolone plished by
   forming a weighted sum of words, phrases treatment (1 mg/kg every six
   hours). All patients and concepts using INQUERY's flexible query lan-
   received nebulized isoetharine inhalations and con- guage. A series of
   experiments was conducted to tinuous IV aminophylline infusion. ...
   Findings of determine optimum relative weights. One of the best this
   study indicate that IV corticosteroid therapy is weighting schemes is
   to assign words, phrases and beneficial in treating pediatric status
   asthmaticus. concepts weights of 2, 1 and 5, respectively. Follow- ing
   is an example of an unexpanded query along with its expanded
   counterpart augmented with these Adolescence weights (which appear
   immediately to the left of the Asthma/*DRUG THERAPY #SUM operator).
   Child Clinical Trials Unexpanded query: Double-Blind Method is there
   evidence to support the use of inhaled steroids Human in COPD when the
   patient is on intravenous steroids Intravenous Injections
   Methylprednisolone/*ADMINISTRATION & Expanded query with weights:
   DOSAGE/THERAPEUTIC USE #q34 = Random Allocation #WSUM ( 1 Status
   Asthmaticus/*DRUG THERAPY 2 #SUM( is there evidence to support the use
   of inhaled steroids in COPD when the _/DOC_ patient is on intravenous
   steroids ) The field contains the document's ID 1 #SUM ( within the
   test collection,
