http://section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Content&ID=75

   Skip Navigation Section 508


   Site Layout Controls
   Change Font      [Verdana]
   Change Font Size [12px]
                        Enter
    | Buy Accessible | About 508 | 508 & You | 508 Training | 508
   Coordinators | Accessibility Forum | FAQs | Events |


   Search
   ____________________
   (*) Buy Accessible Products
   ( ) Section 508 Website
   Search Clear

   Additional Links

   Advanced Search

   Communications/Media

   Resources & Links

   Contact Us

Section 508 Acquisition FAQ's

   Acquisition of Electronic and Information Technology Under Section 508
                          of the Rehabilitation Act

                            Questions and Answers

                            Update: January 2002

   NEW Note to Readers

     This document is a consolidation of acquisition-related questions
     that have been posed by agencies, contractors, and members of the
     disability community regarding section 508 of the Rehabilitation
     Act. The responses to these questions are intended to promote a
     better understanding of the requirements of section 508 and its
     implementing regulations, including the collaboration that is
     anticipated within agencies in the acquisition of EIT.

     The document is purely informational. It neither creates new
     policies nor changes existing policies. Agency personnel must
     consult appropriate officials within their agencies for formal
     advice.

     This web document, which is being hosted by the General Services
     Administration, was developed after review by an inter-agency
     steering committee comprised of agencies with lead responsibilities
     for the implementation of section 508. The steering committee was
     established to further facilitate the effective implementation of
     section 508.

     This "living" document may be further updated as necessary to
     address additional questions and further promote a common and
     effective understanding of section 508 requirements. Accordingly,
     you are encouraged to monitor the section 508 web site,
     www.section508.gov. Comments are welcome and may be sent to
     section.508@gsa.gov.

   CONTENTS
    A. Introduction
    B. Key Terms
    C. Roles and Responsibilities
    D. Defining Requirements for EIT
    E. The Acquisition Process
    F. Nonavailability
    G. Exceptions
    H. Applicability

   A. INTRODUCTION A.1. What is section 508?

   Section 508 refers to a statutory section in the Rehabilitation Act of
   1973 (found at 29 U.S.C. 794d). Congress significantly strengthened
   section 508 in the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. Its primary
   purpose is to provide access to and use of Federal executive agencies’
   electronic and information technology (EIT) by individuals with
   disabilities. The statutory language of section 508 can be found at
   www.section508.gov.

   Section 508 requirements are separate from, but complementary to,
   requirements in sections 501 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act that
   require, among other things, that agencies provide reasonable
   accommodations for employees with disabilities, provide program access
   to members of the public with disabilities, and take other actions
   necessary to prevent discrimination on the basis of disability in their
   programs.

   A.2.i. What does section 508 require?

   Section 508 generally requires Federal agencies to ensure that their
   procurement of EIT takes into account the needs of all end users –
   including people with disabilities. Doing so enhances the ability of
   Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use of
   information and data that is comparable to that provided to others.
   Similarly, agency procurement of accessible EIT enhances the ability of
   members of the public with disabilities who are seeking information or
   services from a Federal agency to have access to and use of information
   and data that is comparable to that provided to others. Comparable
   access is not required if it would impose an "undue burden" on the
   agency. If an agency invokes the undue burden exception, the statute
   requires the information and data to be provided to individuals with
   disabilities by an alternative means of access. (See section B.6.ii,
   below.)

   A.2.ii. Should EIT be compatible with assistive technology?

   Yes, as a general matter. The goal of section 508 is that EIT be
   compatible with assistive technology. In some cases, the standards
   require that the acquired EIT be readily usable without the need for
   assistive devices. For example, products covered by section 1194.25,
   Self Contained, Closed Products, must have the access features built
   into the product. These products, such as information kiosks, copiers,
   or other similar products that do not permit a user to install or
   connect assistive technology, must be designed so that an end user can
   operate the product, without having to modify it. Also, multimedia
   presentations that require captioning and descriptive video, must have
   these features built into the product, as it is impractical to expect
   end users to add on their own captions or descriptions. However, for
   most products -- such as software, web pages, and computers --
   achieving compatibility with assistive technology is the goal of the
   standards.

   A.3.I. Covered actions

   The requirements of section 508 apply to an agency’s procurement of
   EIT, as well as to the agency’s development, maintenance, or use of
   EIT. These Questions and Answers address issues related to an agency’s
   procurement of EIT. (Individuals with disabilities may only enforce
   section 508 with respect to procurements. However, they may also
   enforce rights under sections 501 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act,
   which impose related obligations on agencies.)

   A.3.ii. If an agency uses in-house staff to develop products (e.g.,
   training films, videotapes, websites, software applications, etc.) are
   these products required to meet the section 508 standards even though a
   procurement action was not involved?

   Yes. The requirements of section 508 apply to an agency's procurement
   of EIT, as well as to the agency's development, maintenance, or use of
   EIT irrespective of the origin of the EIT (in-house development or
   commercially acquired). See A.3 with respect to type of work section
   508 covers.

   A.3.iii. If an EIT item is maintained or developed by both contractor
   and government employees, is it covered by the section 508 standards?

   Yes. Unless an exception applies, if the product is a deliverable under
   a contract it must conform to the applicable standards regardless of
   the mix of labor used to produce it.

   A.4. Do the requirements of section 508 apply to acquisitions other
   than those for EIT?

   No. (See also section B.1.ii, below.)

   A.5. Are there regulations implementing section 508?

   Yes, there are two regulations addressing the requirements of section
   508.

   i. Access Board Standards
   . The first regulation implementing section 508 was issued by the
   Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (the "Access
   Board"), an independent Federal agency, whose primary mission is to
   promote accessibility for individuals with disabilities. This
   regulation is referred to as the Access Board’s "standards."

   The standards, along with an explanatory preamble, were published in
   the Federal Register, as a final rule, on December 21, 2000 (65 Fed.
   Reg. 80499). The standards are codified at 36 CFR Part 1194 and may be
   accessed through the Access Board’s web site at
   http://www.access-board.gov.

   The Access Board’s standards consist of several subparts which, among
   other things:

     * define EIT (see 36 CFR 1194.4);
     * set forth "technical provisions" that:
     * address the required functionality / performance of specific
       technologies and product categories (see "Subpart B" of the Access
       Board’s standards);
     * identify broader functional performance criteria to cover
       technologies or components for which there is no specific provision
       in Subpart B -- e.g., because the technology or product does not
       yet exist or was not contemplated by the Access Board during the
       promulgation of the standards (see "Subpart C" of the Access
       Board’s standards); and
     * include requirements for accessible information, documentation, and
       support for EIT (see "Subpart D" of the Access Board’s standards);
     * define agencies’ authority to consider EIT that does not meet the
       applicable technical provisions in Subpart B, but provides
       equivalent facilitation that meets the functional performance
       criteria of Subpart C (see 36 CFR 1194.5); and
     * set forth some of the exceptions to the requirement to buy EIT that
       meets the applicable technical provisions (see 36 CFR 1194.3).

   The Access Board’s standards become enforceable on June 21, 2001 (see
   section H.2., below).

   ii. FAR Rule
   . The second rule issued to implement section 508 amends the Federal
   Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to ensure that agency acquisitions of EIT
   comply with the Access Board’s standards. The entire FAR is found at 48
   CFR Chapter 1, located at http://www.arnet.gov/far/. The FAR change
   implementing section 508 was published along with an explanatory
   preamble in the Federal Register on April 25, 2001 (66 Fed. Reg. 20894)
   and is effective as of June 25, 2001 (see section H, below). The FAR
   rule can be found at http://www.section508.gov.

   A.6. Does section 508, as implemented by the Access Board’s standards
   and the FAR, impose the same obligations on agencies and contractors?

   No. Although the FAR uses the term "compliance" with respect to both
   agencies and contractors, the nature of their respective
   responsibilities differs.

   Agencies are responsible for complying with section 508 as a whole,
   including identification of applicable Access Board technical
   provisions (see sections C and D, below) and making nonavailability and
   exception determinations (see sections F and G, below).

   Contractors interested in selling EIT to the Federal government are
   responsible for designing and manufacturing products which meet the
   applicable Access Board’s technical provisions.

   A.7. What aspects of the acquisition process are affected by section
   508 and its implementing regulations?

   Section 508 affects what agencies acquire (i.e., the requirements
   development process), generally not how they acquire it (i.e., source
   selection). See FAR 7.103(o) (addressing acquisition planning), FAR
   10.001(a)(3)(vii) (addressing market research), FAR 11.002(f)
   (addressing needs descriptions), FAR 12.202(d) (addressing requirements
   documents for commercial item acquisitions), and FAR Subpart 39.2
   (addressing the acquisition of EIT).

   B. KEY TERMS

   B.1. "Electronic and Information Technology" (EIT)

   i. What is EIT?

   EIT is information technology (IT), as defined at FAR 2.101, and any
   equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is
   used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data or
   information. In addition to IT, EIT includes:

     * telecommunication products, such as telephones;
     * information kiosks;
     * transaction machines;
     * World Wide Web sites;
     * multimedia (including videotapes); and
     * office equipment, such as copiers and fax machines.

   EIT is defined by the Access Board at 36 CFR 1194.4 and in the FAR at
   2.101.

   ii. Is EIT limited to products?

   No. EIT, like IT, also includes services. For example, some agencies
   seek to satisfy their desktop computing needs through so-called "seat
   management" service contracts. Under a seat management arrangement, the
   contractor provides the software, hardware, and technical support
   services necessary to support full service desktop computing resources
   to the agency for a given period of time. Although the agency does not
   acquire title to the hardware and software, the agency would still need
   to comply with section 508 in acquiring desktop computing resources.

   As another example, agencies acquiring help desks must ensure that
   providers are capable of accommodating the communications needs of
   persons with disabilities, consistent with Subpart D of the Access
   Board’s standards. An agency help desk may need to communicate through
   a teletypewriter (TTY) – i.e., equipment that transmits coded signals
   across a telephone network. The help desk provider must also be
   familiar with such features as keyboard access and other options
   important to people with disabilities.

   B.2. "Comparable access"

   i. What must an agency do to ensure its acquisitions of EIT provide
   "comparable access"?

   Unless an exception applies, an agency’s obligation to provide
   comparable access under section 508 is satisfied by acquiring EIT that
   meets the applicable technical provisions in Subparts B, C, and D of
   the Access Board’s standards, either directly or through equivalent
   facilitation (see section B.3, below). Comparable access is not
   required if it would impose an undue burden on the agency. (See
   sections B.6 and G.6, below.)

   ii. How should an agency proceed in identifying "applicable" technical
   provisions in Subparts B, C, and D of the Access Board’s standards to
   ensure acquired products provide comparable access?

   Agencies should first look to the provisions in Subpart B to determine
   if there are specific technical provisions that apply to the EIT need
   they are seeking to satisfy.

   If there are applicable provisions in Subpart B that fully address the
   product or service being procured, then the agency need not look to
   Subpart C. Acquired products that meet the specific technical
   provisions set forth in Subpart B will also meet the broader functional
   performance criteria in Subpart C.

   If an agency’s procurement needs are not fully addressed by Subpart B,
   then the agency must look to Subpart C for applicable functional
   performance requirements.

   Agencies must also remember the additional considerations of Subpart D.
   Subpart D requires that: (a) product support documentation provided to
   end users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request at
   no additional charge; (b) end users shall have access to a description
   of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in
   alternate formats or methods upon request, also at no additional
   charge; and (c) support services (e.g., help desk) for products shall
   accommodate the communication needs of end users with disabilities.

   For example, if an agency were to enter into a seat management contract
   for desktop computing resources, the hardware and software to be
   provided by the contractor would be required to meet the provisions in
   section 1194.26 (Desktop and Portable Computers), and 1194.21 (Software
   Applications and Operating Systems) of Subpart B of the Access Board’s
   standards. If these provisions fully addressed the agency’s procurement
   software and hardware needs, the agency would also be in compliance
   with Subpart C. If some or all of the features were not covered by
   Subpart B, the agency would also have to look to Subpart C. With
   respect to the support services provided under the seat management
   contract, the agency would also need to take into account any
   appropriate information, documentation, or support requirements in
   Subpart D.

   In all cases, agencies, when evaluating offers, must consider products
   that provide equivalent facilitation (see section B.3, below).

   B.3. "Equivalent facilitation"

   i. What is equivalent facilitation?

   The Access Board’s standards provide that agencies may accept EIT
   offered by vendors which uses designs or technologies that do not meet
   the applicable technical provisions in Subpart B but provide
   substantially equivalent or greater access to and use of a product for
   people with disabilities. (See 36 CFR 1194.5.) This is referred to as
   "equivalent facilitation."

   Equivalent facilitation is not an exception or variance from the
   requirement to provide comparable access. Rather, it is a recognition
   that technologies may be either developed or used in ways not
   envisioned by the technical provisions in Subpart B but still result in
   the same or better functional access as would be provided by strictly
   meeting the provisions in Subpart B. Functional outcome – not form – is
   the key to evaluating whether a technology results in "substantially
   equivalent or greater access." In effect, meeting the functional
   performance criteria in Subpart C of the Board’s standards is the test
   for equivalent facilitation.

   For example, an information kiosk which is not accessible to a person
   who is blind might be made accessible by incorporating a telephone
   handset connected to a computer that responds to touchtone commands and
   delivers the same information audibly that is provided on the screen.

   In short, the concept of equivalent facilitation is designed to allow
   the marketplace to offer innovative solutions. For this reason,
   agencies must draft their solicitations for EIT so that products
   offering equivalent facilitation are considered along with those that
   strictly meet the technical provisions of Subpart B of the standards.

   ii. Is there a preference for a product that strictly meets the
   technical provisions of Subpart B over a product that provides the same
   or greater accessibility through equivalent facilitation?

   No. Purchase of either EIT product would satisfy an agency’s
   obligations under section 508. Award should be made to the source whose
   offer is most advantageous to the Government based on the agency’s
   source selection criteria (which would include cost or price and may
   include quality).

   Note: Offered products and services may provide greater access than
   required by the Access Board’s standards. An agency may, but is not
   required, to give additional evaluation credit for such greater access.

   iii. What is the difference between "equivalent facilitation" and
   "alternative means of access"?

   Equivalent facilitation focuses on whether an EIT product provides
   access that is equal to or greater than that required in the technical
   provisions in Subpart B of the Access Board’s standards. By contrast,
   an alternative means of access focuses on the accessibility of the
   information and data, rather than the technology. Under section 508,
   agencies have a statutory obligation to make information and data
   available by an "alternative means of access" when acquiring EIT that
   meets the applicable technical provisions of the Access Board’s
   standards would impose an undue burden. (See 36 CFR 1194.4 and section
   B.6.ii, below.)

   Agencies have additional obligations under sections 501 and 504 of the
   Rehabilitation Act, including the obligation to provide employees with
   disabilities "reasonable accommodations." "Reasonable accommodation"
   focuses on the needs of a particular individual with a disability.
   "Equivalent facilitation," instead, focuses on whether the technology
   itself is designed to afford a specific degree of accessibility – e.g.,
   that which would have been provided if the product or service strictly
   adhered to the specific technical provisions of Subpart B.

   B.3.iv Who makes the determination that a product meets equivalent
   facilitation?

   The vendor may assert that its product meets or exceeds the level of
   accessibility required by a particular standard through equivalent
   facilitation. The agency must determine whether a standard is met
   through equivalent facilitation in accordance with agency guidance and
   in consultation with, if necessary, the agency 508 coordinator and/or
   other agencies with technical expertise in accessible EIT, such as the
   Access Board. If an agency violates section 508 because the product did
   not, in fact, meet a standard through equivalent facilitation, the
   agency may still be liable.

   B.4. "Assistive technology"

   What is assistive technology?

   Assistive technology is adaptive equipment that people with
   disabilities commonly use for information and communication access. See
   36 CFR 1194.4. In many cases, the Access Board’s technical provisions
   require compatibility with assistive technology devices. For example,
   if an agency is acquiring telecommunications products, the standards
   require that the EIT either contain a TTY or be compatible with TTYs.
   If the product doesn’t provide TTY functionality, it must provide a
   standard non-acoustic connection point for TTYs. See 36 CFR Part
   1194.23.

   In some cases, the standards require that the acquired EIT be readily
   usable without the need for assistive devices. This is the case, for
   example, for self-contained, closed products such as information
   kiosks. See 36 CFR Part 1194.25.

   B.5. "Nonavailability"

   What is nonavailability?

   Nonavailability refers to circumstances where no commercial items are
   available that meet the applicable Access Board’s technical provisions
   (directly or through equivalent facilitation) in time to satisfy the
   agency’s delivery requirements. If products are available that meet
   some, but not all, applicable provisions, agencies cannot claim a
   product as a whole is nonavailable just because it does not meet all of
   the applicable technical provisions. The requiring official must
   document nonavailability in writing. See FAR 39.203(c) and 36 CFR
   1194.2(b). See section F, below, for additional discussion.

   B.6. "Undue burden" and "alternative means of access"

   i. What is undue burden?

   The Access Board’s standards and the FAR define an undue burden as a
   significant difficulty or expense. See 36 CFR 1194.4 and FAR 39.202. In
   determining whether acquiring EIT that meets all or part of the
   applicable technical provisions of the Access Board’s standards would
   impose an undue burden, an agency must consider all resources available
   to its program or component for which the supply or service is being
   acquired. Undue burden determinations must be documented. See section
   G.6, below, for additional discussion.

   ii. If an agency determines that the acquisition of EIT that meets the
   applicable technical provisions of the Access Board’s standards would
   impose an undue burden, does it have any remaining obligations under
   section 508?

   Yes. The statute requires that the information and data be provided to
   individuals with disabilities by an alternative means of access. For
   example, if an agency wishes to purchase a computer program that
   generates maps denoting regional demographics, but determines that it
   would constitute an undue burden to purchase an accessible version of
   such a program, the agency would be required to make the information
   provided by the program available by alternative means to users with
   disabilities. Alternative means of access focuses on the provision of
   the information and data in an accessible manner -- as opposed to the
   accessibility of the product itself. Thus, in the example provided
   above, alternative means of access for an individual who is blind might
   mean providing a hard copy description of the information in Braille or
   providing an assistant to help guide the user through the information.
   Alternative means may include, but are not limited to: voice, fax,
   relay service, TTY, qualified sign language interpreters, Internet
   posting, captioning, text-to-speech synthesis, readers, personal
   assistants, or audio descriptions.

   iii. Is undue burden the only grounds for acquiring EIT that does not
   meet the applicable technical provisions?

   No. There are several exceptions to the requirements of section 508
   (see section G, below).

   C. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

   C.1. Who within the agency is responsible for ensuring EIT purchases
   comply with section 508?

   Acquisition of EIT that meets the applicable technical provisions of
   the Access Board’s standards is the shared responsibility of requiring
   activity officials and contracting officials.

     * Requiring activity officials (i.e., officials in the program office
       or organization that is funding and acquiring the EIT) are
       responsible for --
         a. identifying applicable technical provisions of the Access
            Board’s standards in their requirements documents (see FAR
            11.002 and section B.2.ii, above);
         b. conducting market research to identify what products, if any,
            are available to meet those provisions or whether an exception
            applies;
         c. drafting specifications; and
         d. documenting nonavailability and undue burden determinations.
     * It is expected that agencies will designate requiring activity
       officials in their organizations to carry out these
       responsibilities at an appropriately accountable level.
     * Contracting officials are expected to pursue effective acquisition
       strategies for acquiring EIT.

   Thus, successful implementation of section 508 requires the cooperation
   and coordination of requirements and contracting officials within the
   agency.

   Each agency has a Section 508 Coordinator. This person is often someone
   in the Chief Information Officer’s office. He or she can provide
   additional information on agency procedures and the steps being taken
   within his or her agency to implement section 508. For more
   information, see www.section508.gov/coord.html.

   C.2. If EIT is acquired through another agency’s contract, which agency
   is responsible for section 508 compliance?

   The requiring agency (i.e., the agency with the need for EIT) is
   responsible for ensuring that the acquisition complies with section
   508. See FAR 39.203(b)(3). This responsibility remains with the
   requiring agency irrespective of the vehicle used to complete the
   transaction -- e.g., the requiring activity has this responsibility
   when its agency is acquiring EIT under a multi-agency contract pursuant
   to the Economy Act procedures under FAR Subpart 17.5, a government-wide
   acquisition contract (a so-called "GWAC"), or GSA’s Federal Supply
   Schedules.

   This notwithstanding, contracting offices that award
   indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts (such as those mentioned above)
   also have responsibilities. They must inform the requiring and ordering
   activities of the requiring agency which supplies and services the
   contractors indicate meet (either fully or partially) the applicable
   technical provisions of the Access Board’s standards. They must also
   provide the source of vendor information regarding section 508 (e.g.,
   the vendor’s or other exact web site location). See FAR 39.203(b)(2)
   (which imposes this requirement on all contracting offices that award
   IDIQ contracts). In addition, if the servicing agency places the order
   on the requiring agency’s behalf, the servicing agency needs to take
   necessary management steps before placing the order to ensure that the
   requiring activity (its customer) has appropriately considered its
   section 508 obligations with regard to that order.

   C.3. Vendor Responsibilities

   i. Does section 508 require contractors to manufacture EIT that meets
   the applicable Access Board’s technical provisions?

   No. Section 508 requires the government to purchase EIT that meets the
   applicable technical provisions of the Access Board’s standards, with
   certain exceptions. By doing so, section 508 provides an incentive for
   EIT manufacturers and designers to ensure that their products are
   usable by everyone – including people with disabilities.

   Agencies are responsible for ensuring that they undertake their
   acquisitions for EIT consistent with the requirements of section 508,
   as implemented in the Access Board’s standards and the FAR -- which
   includes identifying applicable section 508 provisions to interested
   contractors. Similarly, agencies – not contractors – are responsible
   for making determinations regarding whether any exceptions apply. (See
   section G.6.vi, below.)

   In turn, contractors wishing to do business with the government must
   provide products and services that meet (either directly or through
   equivalent facilitation) an agency’s stated requirements, including
   applicable technical provisions from the Access Board’s standards as
   identified by the agency. Contractors (including manufacturers and
   designers) are under no obligation to consider either section 508 or
   the Access Board’s standards if they do not wish to market their
   products to the Federal government.

   ii. Do vendors have to provide product documentation in alternate
   formats?

   Yes, if it is a deliverable under a contract. Section 1194.41 of the
   Access Board's standards provides that product support documentation
   that is provided to end-users must be made available in alternate
   format upon request. However, it is the agency's responsibility, not
   the vendor's, to comply with this provision. Typically, agencies will
   require such documentation from the vendor to be in an alternate format
   as part of the deliverables required under the contract. The format of
   the documentation requested from the vendor may vary. For example, an
   agency may request the documentation in an electronic format that will
   allow the agency to reprint information in Braille or alternate
   formats. Other agencies may request the information to be provided by
   the vendor in Braille, large print, audio cassette or other format as
   part of the procurement.

   C.4 Are subcontractors subject to Section 508?

   Section 508 does not impose requirements on contractors or
   subcontractors. Instead, it only imposes requirements on the product
   specifications of EIT procured by federal agencies. Prime contractors
   may enter into subcontracts in the performance of a Federal contract
   for EIT, but the prime remains obligated to deliver what is called for
   under the contract (e.g., EIT that meets the Access Board's standards).

   C.5. Enforcement and Reporting

   i. Who is responsible for enforcing Section 508? Are there any
   reporting requirements?

   Individuals with disabilities are responsible for enforcing the
   requirements of Section 508. Individuals with disabilities may file a
   complaint with an agency or bring a civil action in Federal Court for
   an agency's noncompliance with the requirements of section 508. Section
   508(f) requires agencies to provide procedures for resolving complaints
   by individuals who allege that an agency has failed to comply with the
   requirements of section 508 in providing EIT. It states that agencies
   are to apply the complaint procedures established to implement section
   504 of the Rehabilitation Act to resolve administrative complaints
   related to section 508.

   Section 508(d)(2) requires the Attorney General to prepare a biennial
   report and make recommendations regarding the state of Federal
   department and agency compliance with the requirements of section 508.

   ii. What was the purpose of the Department of Justice's recent
   government wide survey of federal web sites? Section 508(d)(2) requires
   the Attorney General to prepare and submit a report and recommendations
   to the President and Congress regarding the state of Federal department
   and agency compliance with the requirements of section 508, including
   any actions regarding individual complaints. The survey was designed to
   help the Department of Justice assess agency compliance. The Department
   of Justice and other agencies may use the recommendations and findings
   in this report to facilitate implementation of section 508 by the
   Federal government.

   C.6 Use of EIT in Federal Agency Training

   i. If a Federal agency conducts training and uses multimedia, such as
   videotapes or computer based training, must the materials developed be
   accessible under 508?

   Yes. Multimedia is considered EIT and, if used by the Federal
   government, must be accessible unless an exception applies (see
   sections F and G, below). Section 1194.22 of the Access Board's
   standards addresses requirements for web-based intranet and internet
   information and applications. Section 1194.24 addresses video and
   multimedia products. In addition to the requirements of section 508,
   agencies also have obligations to their employees under sections 501
   and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.

   ii. If a Federal agency is distributing a television or multimedia
   production or a web-cast presentation, does it have to be open or
   closed captioned and audio-described?

   Section 1194.24(c) and (d) of the Access Board's standards require that
   all training or informational video and multimedia productions which
   support the agency's mission and which have audio information or visual
   information that is necessary for the comprehension of the content, be
   captioned or audio described. Hence, if the production is multimedia
   (e.g. image and sound) and is considered "training or informational,"
   then it must meet the applicable requirements of 1194.24 (c) and (d) of
   the Access Board's standards. If the production is web-based,
   regardless of whether it is multimedia, such as a live webcast of a
   speech, then it must also meet the applicable requirements of 1194.22.

   iii. Does the requirement to open or close caption and audio describe
   apply to productions that have a limited purpose, scope, and shelf life
   or contain quickly "perishable" information?

   Section 1194.22 of the Access Board standards applies requirements to
   web-based intranet and internet information and applications without
   regard to the perishable nature of a production. Similarly, section
   1194.24 addresses video and multimedia products without regard to the
   shelf life of a production.

   iv. Do videotapes of briefings or "raw or stock" film footage for
   documentation purposes have to be captioned or audio described? What if
   the videotape is later played for an audience? Do graphs and charts
   used in the briefing have to be audio described?

   Briefings or other recordings made for purposes of documentation are
   not considered "training or informational videos." As noted in the
   preamble to the Access Board's final rule, section 1194.24 does not
   require that a videotape recorded by a field investigator to document a
   safety violation be captioned or audio described. However, if such a
   videotape were subsequently used as part of a training or informational
   presentation, it would have to be captioned and audio described. (See
   65 Federal Register 80517, December 21, 2000.) Any graphs or charts
   that are not described in the narration of the video would have to be
   audio described if the visual information was necessary for the
   comprehension of the content.

   v. Is the requirement to open or close caption, and to provide audio
   description specific to English?

   No. The requirement to caption (i.e., to provide access to audio
   information for persons with hearing impairments) and provide audio
   description applies irrespective of the language. It is recommended
   that captioning and audio description be in the same language as the
   content of the production. For example, Spanish audio should be
   captioned in Spanish. There is no requirement to provide captioning in
   a language different from the content of the production (e.g., English
   audio need not be in Spanish or vice versa.) vi. Must the lyrics in
   songs embedded in productions be open or closed captioned?

   This answer depends on whether the lyrics are considered content
   essential for comprehension. For instance, a production that features a
   dialogue between two people while a radio softly plays a song in the
   background should have the conversation in the foreground captioned.
   However, since the song from the radio is not essential for
   comprehension, the captions could simply indicate that music is playing
   in the background.

   C.7. "Agency Websites"

   i. Must Portable Document Format (PDF) files that are displayed on a
   Federal website meet the Access Board's standards?

   Yes. Section 1194.22(m) requires the web page containing a PDF file to
   include a link to a plug-in that complies with the software
   requirements of 1194.21(a) through (l). In addition, section 1194.22(a)
   requires provision of a text equivalent for every non-text element.

   A PDF file is a file format created using Adobe Acrobat. Many agencies
   use PDF files to post documents to their web site because they create
   an exact representation of the original document. In order to view a
   PDF file, a user must use a browser "plug-in." Thus, the agency has two
   options when addressing PDF content and the Access Board's standards.
   First, it can ensure that its PDF file is accessible and include a link
   to a PDF reader that conforms to the software requirements of section
   1194.21. Alternatively, if such a plug?in is unavailable, section
   1194.22(k) permits the agency to provide a link to a duplicate file
   that contains the same information in an accessible format.

   ii. Can a federal agency provide alternate web pages for users with
   disabilities to supplement web pages that have innovative features
   which are inaccessible to assistive technologies? While the provisions
   in 36 CFR 1194.22 allow web authors to be creative and innovative in
   the use of new technologies, section 1194.22(k) requires that a
   text-only web page be provided only as a method of last resort for
   bringing a web site into compliance with the other requirements in
   1194.22. This practice is discouraged because it leads to problems of
   multiple document updating and servicing. (When used, text-only pages
   must contain equivalent information and functionality as the primary
   pages and must be updated whenever the primary pages change.)

   C.8 Are Section 508 access requirements satisfied if the agency
   provides such access following a request for it, as opposed to in
   anticipation of a request for access?

   No. Unless an exception applies, the requirements of section 1194.24
   (c) and (d) of the Access Board's standards are to be met at the time
   the product is developed or, in the case of a procurement, when the
   product is delivered (unless an exception applies). For example, the
   production of a training video, which is covered by the section 508
   standards, must include the incorporation of open or closed captioning
   and audio description during the development phase, not after a request
   is made for it.

   D. DEFINING REQUIREMENTS FOR EIT

   D.1. How does section 508 affect the requirements development phase of
   an acquisition?

   Section 508 requires agencies to take additional considerations into
   account when defining their needs for EIT – namely the Access Board’s
   standards. As noted above, section 508 affects what an agency buys, not
   generally how the agency buys it.

   D.2. Must requiring officials consider all the Access Board’s technical
   provisions and functional performance criteria each time they purchase
   EIT?

   No. Requiring officials need only consider all applicable technical
   provisions from the Access Board’s standards to ensure acquired
   products provide comparable access (see section B.2.ii, above).

   D.3. Is an agency prohibited from buying EIT that does not meet all
   applicable technical provisions?

   No. If an exception applies preventing an agency’s acquisition of EIT
   that meets all of the applicable technical provisions (e.g., no such
   products are available in the commercial marketplace), the agency may
   acquire EIT that meets some of those provisions. Similarly, if an
   exception applies to an agency’s acquisition of EIT that meets some of
   the applicable provisions, the agency may acquire EIT that does not
   meet any of those provisions.

   D.4. Is an agency ever required to fundamentally alter its needs in
   order to comply with section 508?

   No. The Access Board’s standards state that an agency is not required
   to alter its acquisition requirements in order to comply with section
   508 if the alteration would be so fundamental that the agency would no
   longer be procuring EIT that met its needs.

   For example, if an agency needs to meet certain security needs by
   acquiring secure telephone units that are all analog, the agency would
   not be required to buy digital phones if such phones failed to meet the
   agency’s security needs even if the digital phones fully meet the
   applicable technical provisions of the Access Board’s standards and the
   analog phones meet only some of the applicable technical provisions.

   E. THE ACQUISITION PROCESS

   E.1. What steps does the FAR require an agency to take when acquiring
   EIT?

   First, the requirements (program) office must read the Access Board
   standards, and determine which technical provisions apply (see section
   B.2.ii, above).

   Second, the requiring official must perform market research to
   determine the availability of products and services that meet the
   applicable technical provisions. In determining availability, requiring
   officials should consider, among other things, information on vendor
   web sites and the government’s section 508 web site
   (www.section508.gov).

   Third, the requiring official must identify which technical provisions,
   if any, do not apply due to an exception, such as nonavailability or
   undue burden. (See sections F and G, below, for further discussion on
   nonavailability, undue burden and other exceptions, and associated
   contract file documentation requirements.).

   Fourth, technical specifications and minimum requirements must be
   developed considering the results of market research and agency needs.
   The requiring official must submit this information along with the
   purchase request, including nonavailability or undue burden
   documentation as appropriate, to the contracting officer.

   Finally, the contracting officer must draft and issue a solicitation to
   receive offers from interested sources or consider placing an order
   under a delivery order or task order contract. Proposal evaluation may
   yield additional information that could require reconsideration of the
   need for an exception (either retracting or invoking an exception, such
   as nonavailability).

   As noted above, an agency must consider EIT that offers equivalent
   facilitation and should state in its solicitation that it will do so
   (see section E.4., below)

   E.2. Where an agency uses a best value "trade-off" source selection
   process, may it trade off applicable technical provisions of the Access
   Board’s standards where an offer provides strong technical merit,
   strong past performance, or a lower price?

   The Access Board’s technical provisions are mandatory requirements that
   must be met (directly or through equivalent facilitation) unless (a)
   the product or service (if it is a commercial item) is not available,
   (b) an exception applies (such as undue burden), or (c) meeting the
   applicable provisions would require the agency to alter its
   requirements to the point where the procured EIT would not meet its
   needs. For example, if a product is available that meets the technical
   provisions of the Access Board’s standards, the agency would not be
   required to make the purchase if significant difficulty or expense made
   the purchase an undue burden for the agency. Note that undue burden
   cannot be established simply by demonstrating that, as between products
   that could meet the agency’s need, the cost of a product that meets the
   technical provisions is higher than that for a product that does not.
   Instead, an agency must consider all resources available to its program
   or component for which the supply or service is being acquired (see
   section G.6.iii, below).

   Where no offered products meet all of the technical provisions, the
   Access Board’s standards require an agency to "procure the product that
   best meets the standards" (see 36 CFR 1194.2(b)). This may be the
   product that meets the most applicable technical provisions, but
   alternatively could be one that meets fewer technical provisions but
   which better addresses the accessibility needs of the intended end
   users.

   Best value trade-offs are still possible (and in fact required) if the
   products being compared meet the technical provisions to the same
   degree (e.g., the products being compared fully meet applicable
   technical provisions; or the products being compared partially meet the
   applicable technical provisions to the same extent). For example, if
   two of three proposals offer products that fully meet the technical
   provisions and the third proposal partially meets them, traditional
   trade-offs between the two offers that fully meet the applicable
   provisions as to technical merit, price, and past performance are
   required. However, absent a determination of undue burden, the agency
   could not make trade-offs between the proposals that fully meet the
   applicable provisions and those that only partially meet them.

   E.3. Does the FAR provide a specific clause for acquisitions of EIT?

   There is no FAR clause addressing section 508 at this time. The FAR
   Council is carefully considering whether clauses are needed, and
   welcomes comments on this issue that would inform a potential
   rulemaking. (Send comments to the FAR Secretariat (MVP), 1800 F Street,
   NW, Room 4035, Attention Ms. Laurie Duarte, and please cite "Section
   508" in the correspondence.)

   E.4. What are examples of issues an agency may wish to consider when
   drafting a solicitation to acquire EIT?

   Among other things, agencies should consider drafting solicitations in
   a way that they may accept a product or service that partially meets
   the applicable technical provisions if no product is available that
   meets all applicable technical provisions. Solicitations should also
   indicate that products that provide equivalent facilitation will be
   considered along with those that meet the applicable specific technical
   provisions (in Subpart B) of the Access Board’s standards.

   Sample language addressing the evaluation of offers for EIT (that could
   appear in section "M" of a solicitation) might include the following.
   (NOTE: This is illustrative strawman language that must be tailored to
   the specific requirements of an individual procurement. Like all
   information in this document, agency personnel must consult appropriate
   officials within their agencies for formal advice.)

   To be considered eligible for award, offerors must propose goods and/or
   services that meet the applicable provisions of the Access Board’s
   standards as identified by the agency. Alternatively, offerors may
   propose goods or services that provide equivalent facilitation. Such
   offers will be considered to have met the provisions of the Access
   Board’s standards for the feature or component providing equivalent
   facilitation. If none of the offers that meet all applicable provisions
   of the Access Board’s standards could be accepted without imposing an
   undue burden upon the agency or component, or if none of the offerors
   propose goods or services that fully meet all of the applicable Access
   Board’s provisions, those offerors whose products or services meet some
   of the applicable provisions will be considered eligible for award.
   Award will not be made to an offeror meeting all or some of the
   applicable Access Board provisions if award would impose an undue
   burden upon the agency.

   E.5. Will agencies have a way of obtaining standardized product testing
   results to determine if EIT meets the Access Board’s technical
   provisions?

   Currently, there are no uniform testing processes for section 508. In
   May 2001, the agencies with lead responsibilities for the
   implementation of section 508 convened an Accessibility Forum to
   facilitate discussion among the EIT industry, disability advocacy
   groups, and assistive technology vendors on ways to convey the extent
   to which particular products (or services) meet the technical
   provisions of the Access Board’s standards.

   E.6. Vendor EIT information on websites

   i. Will there be a web site providing information on how manufacturers
   have addressed the Access Board’s technical provisions?

   Yes. The site will consist of information offered by vendors describing
   how their offerings meet the technical provisions of the Access Board’s
   standards. The section 508 web site will link to a portal that allows
   vendors to voluntarily maintain information on their own sites with
   links to the section 508 web page. This arrangement will allow vendors
   to more easily update their information, given that how their products
   and services meet the technical provisions will likely be improving
   with each version and product model. Industry representatives have been
   working to develop a template so that vendors may present their
   information in a structured format if they choose. At some point, it is
   possible that manufacturers may voluntarily label products based on
   industry developed measures to enable end users to more easily identify
   how a product meets the applicable technical provisions.

   Industry representatives are encouraged to visit the section 508 web
   site, www.section508.gov, and follow the instructions regarding
   participation.

   ii. Does the Federal government have a 'logo program' indicating which
   products meet 508 standards?

   No. The Federal government does not currently have a section 508 logo
   (such as the Energy Star) that attaches to a product to indicate that
   the product conforms to the section 508 standards.

   iii. Are vendors required to post information regarding whether their
   products meet the Access Board standards on a web site? Couldn't this
   result in a compromise of intellectual property?

   Vendors are not required to post information regarding whether or not
   their products meet the Access Board's standards on a web site (unless
   they choose to respond to a solicitation, or are awarded a contract,
   that says otherwise). As a general matter, vendors may disseminate
   information addressing whether their products meet the Access Board
   standards in any manner and level of detail they choose. Vendors are
   encouraged to use the Buy Accessible website on www.section508.gov to
   facilitate the market research efforts of the government in identifying
   conforming products. However, they are not required to use this means
   of providing information to the government. The purpose of the website
   is to improve buyer awareness of those EIT offerings that meet all or
   some of the Board's standards, not to force the revelation of
   particular technical solutions. Generally, information the government
   has about a winning offer may be obtained by the public under the
   Freedom of Information Act unless the information falls under the
   exemption in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) for business "trade secrets and
   commercial or financial information obtained from a person that is
   privileged or confidential."

   iv. Do vendor web sites advertising EIT products or providing
   information about EIT products to the federal government have to meet
   the section 508 standards? No. Section 508 does not require a vendor's
   web site to meet the Access Board's standards. Section 508 applies to
   Federal departments or agencies, including the United States Postal
   Service.

   F. NONAVAILABILITY

   F.1. Under what circumstances may an agency conclude that no EIT is
   available that meets the Access Board’s technical provisions?

   An agency may conclude that EIT meeting the applicable technical
   provisions of the Access Board’s standards is not available (and
   purchase EIT that does not meet those provisions) when it cannot find a
   commercial item that both meets applicable Access Board’s technical
   provisions and can be furnished in time to satisfy the agency’s
   delivery requirements. If products are available that meet some, but
   not all, applicable provisions, agencies cannot claim a product as a
   whole is nonavailable just because it does not meet all of the
   applicable provisions. Agency acquisitions must comply with those
   applicable technical provisions that can be met with supplies or
   services that are available in the commercial marketplace in time to
   meet the agency’s delivery requirements. Nonavailability determinations
   must be documented (see sections F.2 and F.3, below).

   The concept of nonavailability is recognized in the Access Board’s
   standards (at 36 CFR 1194.2(b)) and the FAR (at 39.203(c)) because
   agencies may find that some of their needs cannot be satisfied with EIT
   that meets all the applicable technical provisions. However, as
   manufacturer offerings of products that meet the applicable technical
   provisions increase over time, incidents of nonavailability will
   decrease.

   F.2. What should be included in a nonavailability determination?

   The requiring official must document in writing the nonavailability and
   provide a copy of this documentation to the contracting officer for
   inclusion in the contract file. FAR 39.203(c)(2) requires that the
   documentation must include a description of market research performed
   and identification of the applicable technical provisions that cannot
   be met with products or services available from the marketplace. Agency
   procedures (if any) must be followed.

   F.3. Who is the "requiring official" who makes the nonavailability
   determination?

   The FAR requires that determinations of nonavailability be made by
   requiring activity officials (not contracting officials) unless
   agencies provide otherwise in their procedures. The requiring official
   is an official in the program office or organization that is funding
   and acquiring the EIT. The FAR requires that the documentation of
   nonavailability be included in the contract file.

   F.4 If an agency has appropriately determined and documented that
   commercial items are not available that meet applicable technical
   provisions, must it also determine that an exception applies?

   No. Nonavailability is an independent basis for acquiring EIT that does
   not meet the applicable Access Board's technical provisions. See FAR
   39.204(e)(2)(ii). Undue burden documentation would be required if
   products meeting all (or some) of the standards are commercially
   available but would create an undue burden on the agency to acquire.
   (In other words, when a product meeting the standards is commercially
   available, it is treated no differently than a non-commercial item with
   respect to application of the undue burden justification.) Agencies
   should document commercial nonavailability in accordance with agency
   procedures to assist in defending the agency's decision in the event of
   a complaint. (see section F.2., above).

                  Please see second page for more content.

   Current Vendor Login

   Username
           _______________

   Password
           _______________
                    Login

   Forgot Password?

   Register/Check Status

     Printer Friendly

    | Section 508 Home | Comments for the Webmaster | Privacy Statement |

       GSA is committed to Section 508 compliance and accessibility of
    websites. We welcome any ideas or comments from our clients that may
   help us to further improve upon the accessibility and usability of our
                                  website.
                              firstgov.gov logo
