http://ethics.od.nih.gov/Topics/ipa.htm

                National Institutes of Health Ethics Program

               Ethics and the Intergovernmental Personnel Act:
                 Considerations in Appointing IPA Detailees

   [grad_blu.gif]

   There is an important distinction between persons detailed to a federal
   agency and persons who are appointed to the agency. IPA appointees are
   considered "employees" of the federal agency for almost all purposes,
   while IPA detailees are deemed federal employees for only limited
   purposes [see 5 USC Section 3374(C)(2)]. This remainder of this
   document pertains primarily to IPA detailees, or those individuals who
   are not considered to be federal employees.

   Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) detailees are bound by the
   criminal statutes and other Federal Regulations very much like Federal
   government employees. Many of the restrictions are common sense
   limitations, but others are less obvious. This document discusses
   ethics requirements for the IPA detailee, including Title 18 of the
   United States Code, and other topics such as Financial Disclosure,
   Outside Activities, Representational Activities, Post-Employment
   Statutes, and Conflict of Interest as they relate to IPAs.

   TITLE 18 of the USC Criminal Conflict of Interest Statute

   Sections 203 and 205 prohibit the IPA detailee from representing an
   individual or an organization (including the non-federal outside entity
   from which the detailee came), regardless of compensation, in matters
   before the Federal Government. See "Representational Activities" below.

   Section 207 prohibits the former IPA detailees from "switching sides"
   on matters they worked on or supervised during their detail to HHS. For
   example, an IPA detailee who developed the specific criteria for
   awarding a particular HHS contract may not, after leaving HHS,
   personally apply for that contract on behalf of the non-Federal outside
   entity for which he/she works. This former detailee may however work
   "behind the scenes" by advising other persons preparing the entity's
   contract proposal, subject to the prohibitions on disclosure of certain
   information. See Section 1905 and the "Post-Employment Statutes"
   section below.

   Section 208 prohibits an IPA detailee from participating in a
   Government matter in which, to the detailee's knowledge, the he/she or
   other entity whose interests are imputed to him/her (i.e., spouse,
   minor child, partner, or organization in which the detailee serves as
   an officer, director, trustee, general partner, or employee) has a
   financial interest. For example, an IPA detailee who has an investment
   in a health care sector fund would be required to self-disqualify from
   participating in a particular matter that would affect that investment.
   See "Conflict of Interest" below.

   Section 209 prohibits an IPA detailee from receiving any salary or
   contribution from other than Federal Government sources for Government
   service (except if the detail is being paid by the detailee's
   non-Federal outside entity).

   Sections 602 and 603 prohibit an IPA detailee from soliciting political
   contributions.

   Section 1905 prohibits disclosure of confidential information gained
   during the course of the IPA detail.

   Section 1913 prohibits lobbying with appropriated funds (funds used to
   carry out official Government activities).

   Other Statutes

   IPA detailees who serve as procurement officials are also subject to
   the provisions of the Procurement integrity Act, 41 USC Section 423.

   IPA detailees are also covered by the Hatch Act Amendments (Public Law
   No. 103-94) and may, as of February 3, 1994, campaign for or against
   candidates in partisan elections. For more specific guidance, call the
   Hatch Act Hotline at 1-800-854-2824.

   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   IPA detailees are not subject to financial disclosure reporting
   requirements and thus do not need to complete the SF-278 or OGE-450
   financial reporting forms. As an alternate measure to ensure that
   detailees do not have a financial interest or outside activity which
   conflicts with their federal duties, IPA detailees should discuss
   financial interests (including stocks, investment funds) and outside
   activities (including service on boards of directors, activities in
   professional associations, and consulting) with their Deputy Ethics
   Counselor to avoid any real or apparent conflicts of interest.

   OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES

   IPA detailees are subject to the prior approval requirement for outside
   activities, that is, activities with an outside organization which are
   separate and apart from their regular official duties and
   responsibilities.

   REPRESENTATIONAL ACTIVITIES

   The representational statutes (18 USC 203 and 205) prohibit an IPA
   during the term of the appointment from representing an outside
   organization or individual other than him/herself and his/her immediate
   family before the Federal government or in a matter in which the
   Federal government is concerned except as a part of official Federal
   duties. This means, for example, that an IPA may not testify in a
   Federal court matter except on behalf of or as authorized by the
   government. In addition, an IPA detailee may not represent a friend
   before a government agency and may not engage in a representational
   activity with regard to a grant or contract or other application to the
   Federal government.
    1. This does not prohibit a part-time IPA from maintaining status as a
       Principal Investigator (PI) on a grant as long as such
       participation is administratively authorized. This means the
       holding of grants administered by outside institutions must be
       recognized in the negotiated IPA agreement, i.e., the detailee's
       part-time role with the home institution as well as the purpose of
       the part-time IPA assignment must be stated in the signed
       agreement. Without such recognition in the agreement, there is a
       violation of these statutes.
       Full-time IPA detailees must relinquish PI status as not consistent
       with a full-time appointment with the US government.
    2. This does not prohibit ann IPA from filing new grant applications
       during the IPA assignment.
       A full-time IPA may file grant applications as allowable for
       Federal employees preparing for post-employment service. Such
       grants may not be awarded during the time of the IPA appointment.
       A part-time IPA detailee may be named as PI on a grant or contract
       application for scientific purposes provided that he/she makes no
       representation before a Federal agency with the intent to influence
       through formal or informal appearance, oral or written
       communications, or other communications. This means that the
       detailee can be named on a grant application, may sign the grant
       application, but may not argue for funding, represent the
       organization with respect to site visits, etc. He/she can provide
       scientific or technical information in response to questions posed
       by the government. Grant awards may be made during the time of the
       appointment as is consistent with the time constraints and terms of
       the IPA agreement. This applies only to the IPA's home institution
       and not to other organizations because the IPA agreement only
       recognizes the part-time role of the detailee with the organization
       that is the co-signer of the IPA agreement.

   POST-EMPLOYMENT STATUTES

   Just like a Federal employee, an IPA is prohibited after completion of
   the assignment from engaging representational activities on behalf of
   any outside organization or person with the intent to influence the
   Federal government in a particular matter involving specific parties in
   which the IPA participated personally and substantially as a Federal
   Employee (18 USC Section 207).

   This speaks to the ability to argue funding, terms of agreement, scope
   of work on behalf of any institution or organization related to a grant
   application or other project development in which the IPA participated
   substantially during Federal assignment during the lifetime of that
   grant or project. An IPA will not be prohibited from being named as a
   PI for scientific and technical purposes provided that he/she does not
   make use of non-public information gained through the IPA assignment.
   If the participation of the IPA is to such an extent that it would be
   impossible to apply without the use of non-public information to be
   contained in an RFP or RFA, then not only will the employee be banned
   from applying, his/her institution will also be banned as is consistent
   with NIH grant policy.

   In the event that an IPA participates as a procurement official, truly
   reducing a need to a contractual synopsis or procurement plan, the IPA
   identified as procurement officials prior to 1/2/97, will be prohibited
   as above from communications with the intent to influence as well as
   from performing work under the contract for a period of two years after
   termination of IPA assignment or last participation as a procurement
   official in the award process, or from date of award, which ever is
   sooner.

   Under FARA procurement integrity considerations, effective 1/2/97, an
   IPA identified as a "covered official" will be prohibited for one year
   from accepting compensation from the contractor, division or affiliate,
   for one year from the last involvement in specific contract actions
   involving amounts great than or equal to $10 million.

   Neither acquisition regulation negates post-employment restrictions
   under 18 USC 207.

   CONFLICT OF INTEREST

   IPAs must avoid conflict of interest situations, i.e., those situations
   in which they are asked to act in a Federal capacity in a matter in
   which the IPA, his/her immediate family, employer, general partner, or
   organization for which he/she serves as trustee, director, or partner,
   has a financial interest.

   In the advisory process envisioned in the majority of the IPA
   appointments to assist in the NIH review or strategic planning process,
   these individuals are suggesting research policy or direction affecting
   general matters and scientific disciplines which apply to their home
   institutions as a member of a category of organizations rather than as
   a specific party. This is a role that can be waived under 18 USC
   Section 208(b)(1) to allow participation in many of these general
   matters, but the IPAs must be disqualified from participating in any
   matter in which their actions may have a direct and predictable effect
   on any of their financial interests. [A sample waiver is available in
   both WordPerfect and Word formats.]

   For more information, also see the IPA documents on the Office of
   Personnel Management IPA web site.

   For additional information, contact your Deputy Ethics Counselor or
   your ICD's Ethics Coordinator.

   Updated: 11/06/00.
   _______________________________________________________________________

   [back.gif] Return to Ethics Home Page
