http://www.eptc.wapa.gov/registra_V2.htm

   Home | Catalog | Schedule | Register | Instructors | EPTC's Power
   System | Getting to EPTC | Links | Contact Us

Electric Power Training Center

                               Electric Power Training Center

                               Offering Hands-on Training on a Real Power System

   EPTC Registration Form, Procedures and Policies

   For your convenience, EPTC now accepts most major credit cards.

      The EPTC Registration Form

      Click here for the EPTC Registration Form

      Note: Internet Explorer may give an error message when downloading the
      registration form, or it may result in a blank screen. If an error
      occurs, click OK to the message box, then click REFRESH at the top of
      the screen to view the document. If the screen is blank, just click the
      REFRESH button.

      [getacro.gif]

      Note: The Registration Form requires Acrobat Reader 4.0 for proper
      viewing. Most computers have Reader installed. If you need the latest
      version of READER, click here or on the Adobe icon for a free download
      of Acrobat Reader

      Returning the EPTC Registration Form By Mail:

      EPTC
      P.O. Box 281213
      Lakewood, CO. 80228-8213
      Attn:  Registration, A1300

      Returning the EPTC Registration Form By Fax:

      (720) 962-7845 (Attn: EPTC Registration, A1300)

   Need to speak to someone about registration or courses in general?

   Call the EPTC at either (720) 962-7800 or (800) 867-2617.  Or just send us an
   e-mail at eptc@wapa.gov

      Cancellation Policy

      Cancellations will be accepted up to 28 days prior to the start of a
      course. Cancellations after this deadline will be charged the full
      tuition unless a substitution is made.

      Legal notice regarding use of the Miniature Power System at the EPTC

      The EPTC may make use of live equipment for the purpose of hands-on
      training exercises in our MIniature Power System. While we practice
      safe working conditions, Western can not be responsible for injuries
      during the class. Therefore, by registering for this class, the sponsor
      agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Western Area Power
      Administration and persons acting on its behalf from all liability,
      including costs incurred, to any person, for injury to or death of
      persons arising from training activities, and not directly resulting
      form the fault or negligence of persons acting on the behalf of the
      Western Area Power Administration.
