http://walden.house.gov/press/jan/02/pr_011602.htm

                                                                [press.jpg]

   January 16, 2002
   [Home__________] Go


           Local Students Receive Nominations to U.S. Service Academies

   Students from central, southern and eastern Oregon selected to compete for
service academy appointments

   WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) is pleased to announce
   the nominations of a number of students from central, southern, and
   eastern Oregon to compete for appointments to United States service
   academies.  Candidates for service academy nominations are chosen by
   Congressman Walden based on their academic performance, athletic
   participation, extra curricular involvement, and character.
   Congressman Walden is assisted in his selection of candidates by a
   service academy nominating committee made up of retired military
   officers in Oregons 2^nd District.

   The names of local students selected for nominations follow.

   Warren A. Barlow of Bend will graduate from Redmond High School in June
   of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S.
   Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Naval Academy.

   Todd R. Cox of Bend is currently attending the U.S. Military Prep
   School in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey.  He has been nominated to the U.S.
   Military Academy at West Point.

   Ina K. Harris of Bend will graduate from Mountain View High School in
   June of 2002.  She has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and the
   U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.

   Corey Lounsbury of Sisters graduated from Sisters High School in 1999
   and has attended the University of Utah.  He is currently doing
   missionary work in Chile and has been nominated to the U.S. Naval
   Academy.

   Elizabeth A. Mount of Sisters will graduate from Sisters High School in
   June of 2002.  She has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy at
   West Point.

   Collin M. Beard of Grants Pass will graduate North Valley High School
   in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine
   Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy at West
   Point.

   Adam E. Davidson of Grants Pass will graduate Grants Pass High School
   in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy
   and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.

   Paul J. Mitchell of Grants Pass will graduate North Valley High School
   in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and
   the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.

   Franklin M. Simmons of Grants Pass graduated from Allen Creek Academy
   in 2001 and is currently attending Rogue Community College.  He has
   been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Military Academy
   at West Point.

   Jedidiah J. Campbell of Klamath Falls will graduate from Mazama High
   School in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force
   Academy.

   Darrin R. Crescenzi of Chemult will graduate from Gilchrist High School
   in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy,
   U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.

   Peter Kennedy of Klamath Falls will graduate from Klamath Union High
   School in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force
   Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Military Academy at West Point.

   Heath J. Sell of La Grande, will graduate La Grande High School in June
   of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.

   Marcus R. Wells of Joseph will graduate from Joseph High School in May
   of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air
   Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.

   Sarah K. Rountree of Medford will graduate from North Medford High
   School in June of 2002.  She has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force
   Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy.

   Drew A. Curriston of Eagle Point will graduate from Eagle Point High
   School in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Naval
   Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy at West
   Point.

   Robert Little of Medford graduated from North Medford High School in
   2001 and attended Northwestern Prep School this fall.  He has received
   a nomination and will attend the U.S. Air Force Academy.

   Jorma Nevler of Medford will graduate from North Medford High School in
   June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy,
   U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Military
   Academy at West Point.

   Richard P. Wille of Eagle Point will graduate from Eagle Point High
   School in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force
   Academy.

   V. Nathan Prichard of Vale will graduate from Gem State Academy, an
   Idaho boarding school, in June of 2002.  He has been nominated to the
   U.S. Military Academy at West Point.

   Zachary Lee Thissle of Vale graduated from home school in 2001 and is
   currently attending Treasure Valley Community College.  He has been
   nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.

   Being nominated to one of Americas service academies represents years
   of hard work and discipline, said Walden.  Competing with the best and
   brightest of Americas youth for an appointment to a military academy is
   both a tremendous opportunity and a great honor.  I have every
   confidence that these young men and women will represent their families
   and communities well in that effort, and I commend them for their
   desire to serve their country.  It takes a special commitment to accept
   the challenges of an academy education, and these young men and women
   are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor.
   I share the pride of their parents, teachers and friends in
   congratulating them on this significant achievement.  Im also grateful
   for the assistance of the prestigious nominating committee that
   volunteered countless hours in recommending these students for
   nominations.  Their dedication in helping to choose these outstanding
   young Oregonians has been invaluable not only to me but to our country.

   Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of
   Oregon, which includes the 20 counties of southern, central and eastern
   Oregon. Rep. Walden is a member of the House Energy and Commerce
   Committee and The House Committee on Resources

                                    # # #
