http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Study/SnowSleuths/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
   DAACs Features

     Snow Sleuths   by Rachel Hauser
   January 3, 2002

   Snow falls to the ground following the path of least resistance. In the
   boreal forests of North America, depth and melt patterns of snow on the
   forest floor depend largely on the location and density of the standing
   vegetation. Precipitation, particularly in the form of snow, strongly
   influences regional land-atmosphere interactions, ultimately impacting
   global climate. Climate modelers trying to replicate climate change on
   a global scale need to better understand smaller scale regional climate
   dynamics to account for the nuances of climate variability.
       trees
   (Image courtesy of Richard Armstrong, National Snow and Ice Data
   Center)
   For more information, visit the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and The
   BOREAS Project. (A new browser window will open.)
   Snow lingers in the forests for up to six months of the year but
   acquiring adequate snow data is impractical in this largely uninhabited
   region of Canada. In an effort to fill the data gap, researchers with
   the Boreal Ecosystem Atmosphere Study (BOREAS) collected ground and
   airborne snow cover measurements. Using these data, Anne Walker, an
   environmental scientist at Environment Canada's Climate Research
   Centre, and her colleagues revised their method of snow cover detection
   on the Canadian Prairies to operate in the forest with positive
   results.

   The Climate Research Centre successfully designed a means of
   identifying snow pack properties using space-borne satellite imagery on
   the Prairies, another sparsely populated area. However, differences in
   vegetation and snow cover duration underestimated the amount of snow in
   the boreal forests using this method, said Walker.

   Snow depth varies substantially in the forest, depending upon the
   number of openings among the trees and the mixture and size of tree
   species, said Walker. Attaining an accurate estimate of mean snow depth
   and snow water equivalent in the boreal forest is challenging using
   satellite imagery because the vegetation impacts the clarity of the
   remotely sensed snow data, she said.

   The BOREAS winter field campaign involved taking detailed ground-based
   measurements along a set of flight lines surveyed by airborne remote
   sensing instruments, said Walker.

   "By comparing the remotely sensed data with snow measurements taken by
   a crew on the ground and the type of vegetation present in each image
   we got a sense of how snow cover was influenced by vegetation and how
   this in turn was represented in the satellite imagery," Walker said.

   Detailed ground-based snow measurements and maps indicating the
   dominant vegetation in an area were used in combination to predict how
   snow cover might look in satellite images under variable conditions.

   "To validate this method of determining snow cover, the following
   winter we went back and repeated what we had done for BOREAS," said
   Walker.

   Ground surveys and snow data from the U.S. National Weather Service
   were acquired along a 10 to 20 km flight line. Researchers at the
   Climate Research Centre then compared these data to microwave
   measurements for the same region.

   At the end of this process, Walker and her colleagues discovered that
   their calculations of water equivalent were very good for 1995.
   However, very low air temperatures in 1994 resulted in an
   overestimation of water equivalent.

   Climate Research Centre scientists continue to compare ground-based and
   satellite data for different areas of the BOREAS study sites.
   Additionally, arrangements have been made for more airborne microwave
   flights over different forests to collect a time series of snow data to
   see how representative the BOREAS snow data are in larger, more
   northerly regions.

   "We are improving land cover statistics that we will compare to the
   surface measurements to more precisely determine the relationship
   between vegetative cover and snow detection, " Walker said.
   [hgline.gif]
   Goita, K., A. E. Walker, B. E. Goodison, and A. T. C. Chang. 1997.
   Estimation of Snow Water Equivalent in the Boreal Forest Using Passive
   Microwave Data. Proceedings, GER '97 (International Symposium:
   Geomatics in the Ear of Radarsat), Ottawa, Canada, May 25-30, 1997.
   CD-ROM published by Natural Resources Canada and National Defence.

     The NASA Distributed Active Archive Centers (DAACs) provide data and
     user services in support of the Earth observing sciences.


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
