http://www.shuttle.nasa.gov/spacenews/releases/2002/04-02.html

   For Release: Jan. 29, 2001

   Bruce Buckingham
   Kennedy Space Center
   (321) 867-2468

   KSC Release No. 04 - 02
   Note to Editors:

   MEDIA OPPORTUNITIES WITH STS-109 CREW SET FOR THIS WEEK'S COUNTDOWN
   TEST

   The crew of Space Shuttle mission STS-109, the 108th mission in the
   history
   of Shuttle flight, will be at Kennedy Space Center this week for the
   Terminal Countdown Demonstration Test (TCDT).

   The following events are available to media.

   Tuesday, Jan. 29 - To cover the arrival of the STS-109 crew, media must
   be
   at the KSC Press Site no later than 3:30 p.m. Crew arrival will not be
   carried live on NASA TV.

   Thursday, Jan. 31 -- Media representatives have an opportunity to speak
   informally with and photograph the entire STS-109 crew. Media
   interested in
   participating in this question-and-answer session should be at the KSC
   Press
   Site by 11:30 a.m. This is a local media event only. No live NASA TV
   coverage is planned.

   The TCDT is held at KSC prior to each Space Shuttle flight, providing
   flight
   crews with an opportunity to participate in simulated countdown
   activities.
   The TCDT ends with a mock launch countdown culminating in a simulated
   main
   engine cut-off. The astronauts also spend time undergoing emergency
   egress
   training exercises at the pad and have opportunities to view and
   inspect the
   payloads in the orbiter's payload bay.

   Following TCDT activities, the crew will depart KSC for final mission
   preparations in Houston, Texas.

   Mission STS-109 is targeted for launch from Kennedy Space Center on
   Feb. 28.
   The flight is scheduled to last about 11 days and will feature the
   fourth
   servicing of the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) during five scheduled
   spacewalks.

   Crew members for mission STS-109 are Commander Scott D. Altman; Pilot
   Duane
   "Digger" Carey; and Mission Specialists John M. Grunsfeld (MS1), Nancy
   Jane
   Currie (MS2), Richard M. Linnehan (MS3), James H. Newman (MS4), and
   Michael
   J. Massimino (MS5).

   NOTE: Media are reminded that previously issued annual badges are no
   longer
   valid. Media without newly issued credentials who desire to cover TCDT
   events should contact the KSC Press Site for instructions.
   -- end --
