http://pilc.grc.nasa.gov/meetings/minneapolis/minutes.txt

   Performance Implications of Link-layer Characteristics (PILC) BOF -
   IETF 44 Reported by Mike Kallas (mailto:mkallas@nortelnetworks.com)
   Mailing list contact information: http://pilc.grc.nasa.gov/pilc MINUTES
   Chairs: Mark Allman (mailto:mallman@grc.nasa.gov) Spencer Dawkins
   (mailto:sdawkins@nortelnetworks.com) Aaron Falk
   (mailto:a.falk@ieee.org) Internet Draft:
   draft-montenegro-pilc-ltn-01.txt (currently individual submission) The
   second PILC BOF was held March 18, 1999 at IETF 44 in Minneapolis,
   Minnesota. Aaron Falk, BOF Co-chair, started off with some history of
   the PILC effort and experiences gained from the TCP over Satellite, and
   presented a draft charter for the proposed PILC working group. His
   slides are available at: http://pilc.grc.nasa.gov/pilc/. Mark Allman,
   BOF Co-chair, continued the discussion by summarizing the interests
   that have been expressed on the PILC mailing list, and leading the
   discussion of the draft charter. Mark's slides are also available from
   the PILC web page. Three major types of documents will be produced in
   PILC: "Advice for Internet Subnetwork Designers", recommendations about
   using (and not using) TCP Performance-Enhancing Proxies, and
   recommendations about mitigations for specific network characteristics.
   In addition, a pointer document for certain communities of interest may
   be produced, depending on the need for a specific network type to deal
   with more than one "unfortunate" link-layer characteristic and the
   potential for "unfortunate" interactions between mitigations. Many
   questions and comments were made about these "Pointer" documents. The
   conclusion was to do the work on the mitigations documents and then see
   whether the pointer documents are still required. The major threads on
   the PILC list to date have been on these topics: Links with high BER,
   Inconsistent BER, Links with occasional outages, and Low bandwidth
   links. (Although, there have been brief threads on other topics). A
   fairly contentious discussion on PEPs ensued. The consensus seemed to
   be for including a document discussing the advantages/disadvantages of
   using PEPs. Both Aaron and Mark suggested specifications that don't
   target a specific type of network (say, "TCP over wireless"), but
   target a specific network characteristic (say, "TCP over links with
   high BERs after link-layer correction has been applied"). The rationale
   was to make sure the TCP community doesn't ignore PILC specifications
   as being tied to a specific network type - Aaron expressed the opinion
   that this had happened in TCPSAT, and slowed down the process of
   getting consensus on TCPSAT Internet-Drafts. Phil Karn, who has been
   working on a draft of the "Advice for Internet Subnetwork Designers"
   document (draft-in-process at http://people.qualcomm.com/karn/pilc.txt)
   presented a proposed outline of the document, collected additions, and
   identified additional contributors. Phil's document table of contents
   at the beginning of the meeting was: MTU size, packet size Framing in
   the sub-net Connection oriented sub-net Link characteristics QoS delay
   / BER Reordering Mobility Multicasting Routing or use IP Security
   Discovery protocols broadcasting Congestion feedback signals These
   subjects were suggested as additions during the discussion: MAC
   algorithm, tuning Media access affects link characteristics Link layer
   should take advantage of burstiness, clumpiness of error helps TCP
   Total error statistics behavior (not just BER) Compression Asymmetry
   Buffering Fairness Vs performance Implications of protocol design on
   power consumption for mobile/wireless devices Significant interest and
   energy was expressed in support of the charter items discussed. The
   initial areas of concentration, based on mailing list traffic to date,
   will be "thin", or low-bitrate, networks, and lossy networks.
   Additional areas may be addressed as communities with interest and
   energy are identified. Steve Deering noted that interim meetings could
   easily be held to focus on a specific link characteristic. There was
   substantial discussion of a number of topics. Relevant comments are
   summarized below. Q: Is PILC only about TCP? What about RTP, multicast?
   A: No. We are also working on link layer issues today. Some
   characteristics originally proposed for PILC were IP layer issues, and
   UDP, RTP, and multicast are all acknowledged as possible areas of work
   for PILC. The energy that has materialized so far in PILC has been
   focused on link layer and TCP issues. Q: Do all wireless networks have
   same issues? Why is a pointer document needed? A: We can't anticipate
   all "wireless" characteristics, and there are different characteristics
   for different types of wireless networks. Each "mitigation" document
   will look at different link characteristics. The Pointer document for
   wireless needs to be flexible so that we can add more sections as
   needed. Different solutions work for different networks. Also note that
   "wireless" was used as shorthand for "wireless WAN" in the discussion.
   Q: Shouldn't we remove "wireless" from charter? A: We need to keep the
   word in the charter as a commitment that PILC will work to meet the
   requirements of the wireless community, but ("you're right,") wireless
   environments are different and changing. We will not group all wireless
   into one category, so different Pointer documents may be produced. We
   will focus discussions on link characteristics, and not on network
   types like wireless. We will use wireless as an example Q: We're
   concerned about usefulness of the Pointer documents. Should Pointer
   documents be IETF RFCs? Would a conference paper be better? A: Many
   groups are publishing similar pointer documents in many places
   (conference proceedings, industry forums). There is still a place for
   documentation of mitigations that involve TCP that have been reviewed
   within IETF. Q: Is designing a way for the applications to determine
   underlying network characteristics in scope? A: No, network knowledge
   of link topology is a different problem. and is also too big. We can
   discuss this on the list if you disagree. Q: How good does the link
   need to be? If you can not achieve recommendations, then what? A: Van
   Jacobson noted that error behavior is non-linear. There is a tradeoff
   between MAC design and error response. Error response is not linear and
   breakpoint is distinct and visible. Chairs asked for people with energy
   to work on problems not in the proposed charter. Hari Balkrishnan
   volunteered to work on documents related to asymmetric networks. It was
   also suggested that this WG should consider architecture.
