http://aging.senate.gov/juris.htm

                               [pagemast.gif]

   [whatsnew.gif] [members.gif] [juris.gif] [events.gif] [newsroom.gif]
   [leginfo.gif] [pubs.gif] [sites.gif] [intinfo.gif] [fraudhl.gif]
   [csmrtips.gif] [homebtn.gif]

                               [jrheader.gif]

   It shall be the duty of the Special Committee on Aging to conduct a
   continuing study of any and all matters pertaining to problems and
   opportunities of older people, including, but not limited to, problems
   and opportunities of maintaining health, of assuring adequate income,
   of finding employment, of engaging in productive and rewarding
   activity, of securing proper housing, and, when necessary, of obtaining
   care or assistance.

   Source: The Congressional Standing Committee System, Congressional
   Research Service, Library of Congress. Report 92-707 GOV. September 14,
   1992.

                                 Background

   The Senate Special Committee on Aging was first established in 1961 as
   a temporary committee. It was granted permanent status on February 1,
   1977. While special committees have no legislative authority, they can
   study issues, conduct oversight of programs, and investigate reports of
   fraud and waste.

   Throughout its existence, the Special Committee on Aging has served as
   a focal point in the Senate for discussion and debate on matters
   relating to older Americans. Often, the Committee will submit its
   findings and recommendations for legislation to the Senate. In
   addition, the Committee publishes materials of assistance to those
   interested in public policies which relate to the elderly.

   The Committee has a long and influential history. It has called the
   Congress' and the nation's attention to many problems affecting older
   Americans. The Committee was exploring health insurance coverage of
   older Americans prior to the enactment of Medicare. After Medicare was
   enacted, the Committee reviewed its performance on an almost annual
   basis. The Committee has regularly reviewed pension coverage and
   employment opportunities for older Americans. It has conducted
   oversight of the administration of major programs like Social Security
   and Medicare. Finally, it has crusaded against frauds targeting the
   elderly and Federal programs on which the elderly depend.

   Chairmen of the Special Committee on Aging have established an
   impressive tradition. Senator Frank Moss brought to light unacceptable
   conditions in nursing homes. Senator John Heinz reviewed Medicare's
   Prospective Payment System to see whether it was true the system was
   forcing Medicare beneficiaries to be discharged "quicker and sicker."
   When the statute of limitations for age discrimination in employment
   claims had lapsed, Senator Melcher restored the rights to 1200
   individuals. Senator Pryor investigated the pricing practices for
   prescription drugs and changed pricing behavior of pharmaceutical
   companies. Senator Cohen, in the last Congress, led the way to
   enactment of strong health care anti-fraud legislation. Over the years,
   the Committee has been in the thick of the debate on issues of central
   concern to older Americans.
