http://atmos.jpl.nasa.gov/manda.htm

                               [m_banner.gif]

       The modeling and analysis research activities at JPL consist of the
   development of computer programs that simulate:
           • the hundreds of chemical reactions that affect atmospheric
   ozone
           • the transport of ozone and other gases by atmospheric winds
           • the thermodynamic changes that occur when air cools below the
   threshold for formation of polar stratospheric clouds.
       The results from these computer simulations are used to guide the
   interpretation of field observations in the context of the latest
   laboratory kinetic and spectroscopic parameters.  Typically, the
   computer codes are written in a programming language called FORTRAN
   and  run on Unix workstations.  A variety of graphically based
   programming languages are used to display maps of meteorological data
   and field. observations.

                              [ross_small.jpg]
              Tools of the Trade: A Modeler and his Workstation

       The research activities in this area are individual efforts led by:

   Mark Allen        JPL/Caltech Multi-dimensional Model
   Lucien Froidevaux Studies of Tropospheric Ozone
   Michael Gunson    Upper Tropospheric Trace Gases
   Gloria Manney     Polar Vortex Evolution
   Ross Salawitch    Photochemistry of Earth's Ozone Layer
   Michelle Santee   Polar Stratospheric Clouds and Denitrification

       Among the data sets used in these studies are satellite
   observations from MLS and other instruments aboard the Upper
   Atmospheric Research Satellite, shuttle-borne observations from ATMOS
   and balloon-borne observations from MkIV, and aircraft data from a
   number of ER-2, DC-8, and WB-57 aircraft missions.  Many of the
   modeling efforts in recent years have been focused on understanding the
   details of how polar stratospheric clouds and man-made chlorine affect
   ozone depletion.  It is well established that reactions on the  surface
   of polar stratospheric clouds (PSCs) initiate the depletion of ozone at
   high latitude during winter.  Our  activities have used model
   simulations to:

           • isolate the changes in ozone due to both chemistry and
   transport for individual years in the Arctic and Antarctic
           • determine the phase (e.g., solid or liquid) and precise
   composition of PSCs based on the thermodynamic effects of these clouds
   on residual gas phase nitric acid and water vapor
           • understand the details of how nitric acid is permanently
   removed from the polar stratosphere by sedimentation of these clouds
           • assess the quantitative consistency between observed chemical
   loss of ozone for individual winters and the "expected" loss based on
   observed concentrations of ClO.
       Other studies have played a key role in better quantifying how
   ozone is affected by sulfate aerosols under conditions of both
   quiescent background (e.g., non-volcanic) loadings and greatly enhanced
   (e.g., a factor of 30 above background) loadings that resulted
   following the volcanic eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in June, 1991.
       Ultimately, all of these studies are directed towards gaining a
   more accurate predictive capability for future changes in stratospheric
   ozone.
       Several of the new investigations are focused on determining the
   global distribution of tropospheric ozone and gaining insight into how
   space-borne observations of trace gases can be used to quantify the
   effect of human activities on tropospheric ozone.


   [Back to Top]

   [Back to the Atmospheric Chemistry Homepage]

   Author: Ross J. Salawitch
   Page Design: Aaron B. Milam
