http://www.state.gov/www/global/arms/index.html

   Great Seal   The State Department web site below is a permanent
   electronic archive of information released prior to January 20, 2001.
   Please see www.state.gov for material released since President George
   W. Bush took office on that date.  This site is not updated so external
   links may no longer function.  Contact us with any questions about
   finding information.

   NOTE: External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as
   an endorsement of the views contained therein.

                         US Dept. of State -- Policy

                                arms control

                              nonproliferation

                         political-military affairs

                         verification and compliance

             Please see current site for Bureau of Arms Control
                   Arms Control and International Security

     The missions of arms control, nonproliferation, political-military
   affairs, and verification and compliance are critical to enhancing the
    ability of the United States to meet the international challenges of
     the next century. Therefore, following the integration on April 1,
   1999, of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency into the
    Department of State, the Department has placed these missions at the
                        heart of our foreign policy.
   These missions, and the Department's activities that support them, are
     under the policy oversight of the Under Secretary of State for Arms
    Control and International Security, who also serves as Senior Adviser
        to the President and the Secretary of State on Arms Control,
    Nonproliferation, and Disarmament. Four bureaus of the Department are
    specifically designated to perform these functions, working in close
     cooperation with the Department's bureaus responsible for specific
     regions of the world as well as with other functional bureaus. The
    Bureau of Arms Control is responsible for international arms control
      and disarmament agreements on strategic, chemical/biological, and
          conventional forces, and supporting ongoing negotiations,
    policy-making, and interagency implementation efforts related to such
       agreements. Giving emphasis to a broad range of efforts to curb
   proliferation of dangerous weapons and delivery systems, the Bureau of
   Nonproliferation leads efforts to halt the spread of nuclear, chemical,
   biological, and conventional weapons and missiles capable of delivering
   weapons of mass destruction. The Bureau of Political-Military Affairs'
     primary goal is to bridge U.S. diplomatic efforts and U.S. national
    security efforts to help ensure that the American people receive the
     most comprehensive approach to protecting U.S. interest at home and
         abroad. The Bureau provides policy direction in the area of
    international security, including critical infrastructure protection,
        security assistance programs, contingency planning, military
    coordination, and peacekeeping operations. The Bureau also regulates
   defense trade and arms transfers and works to destroy excess stockpiles
     of small arms and light weapons, remove landmines, and mitigate the
       consequences of chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear
       incidents abroad. Taking the lead on issues of verification and
      compliance with international arms control, nonproliferation, and
    disarmament agreements and commitments is the Bureau of Verification
    and Compliance. This Bureau prepares the President's Annual Report to
    Congress on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control Agreements
        and prepares other specialized compliance reports, as well as
    assessments of the verifiability of arms control and nonproliferation
                          proposals and agreements.

   Policy ||| Hot Issues ||| Remarks, Statements and Testimony ||| Policy
                                 Topics |||
               Publications ||| Digital Diplomacy for Students

         Policy || Services || The Department || Outreach || Regions

    State Department homepage | search | archive | faq | feedback | index

                     Privacy Act Notice and Disclaimers
