http://www.ssa.gov/oag/

    SSA seal      Social Security Online banner Office of Acquisition and
                                Grants header


   OAG Mission Statement - To acquire quality products and services, at a
   reasonable price, to meet our customer's needs, on a timely basis, in a
              courteous manner, consistent with public policy.

                                 FedBiz Opps

   SSA's business opportunities (RFPs and solicitations) are posted on the
   Federal Business Opportunities website.

   SSA Grants Information
   Information about SSA's Research and Demonstration Grant Programs.

      Division of Administrative Payments Vendor Information Page Logo
                           Invoice with Paid stamp

   Check payment status and sign up for direct deposit.


   Bobby Approved icon

   Welcome to the Office of Acquisition and Grants

   OAG is the procurement office of the Social Security Administration
   headquarters in Baltimore, Maryland.  We are responsible for issuing
   and administering SSA contracts, purchases, and grants.
   This website provides information to facilitate doing business with
   SSA.
   Contact Information title bar
   The contact page contains information about OAG, including its
   organization, mailing address for promotional materials, and access to
   the Contracting Officer Phone Directory.
   Acquisition Information title bar
   The acquisition page contains general acquisition information,
   including oral purchase order clauses & provisions, Contractor
   Performance information, Section 508 information, information on
   special programs such as Welfare to Work and Project Able, a guide for
   submitting an unsolicited proposal, and a very useful Value Engineering
   Guide.  Our current RFQs and solicitations are posted at the FedBizOpps
   web site.
   Small Business Information title bar
   If your firm is a small business or minority business enterprise, we
   encourage you to register in the Small Business Administration's
   PRO-NET database.  SSA uses PRO-NET as the primary database to identify
   small and disadvantaged businesses to fulfill our requirements.

   You may also want to read about Socio-Economic Programs at SSA,
   view/download the FY 2002 Acquisition Forecast of Contracting
   Opportunities for Small Business, and view/download SSA's Small
   Business Subcontracting Directory, published as a marketing aid for
   small business, disadvantaged business, and woman-owned business
   concerns seeking subcontracting opportunities with SSA prime
   contractors.

   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) title bar
   These reports contain the procurement data most frequently requested by
   the public under the Freedom of Information Act:
     * SSA Headquarters Active Contracts List - by Contract Number
     * SSA Headquarters Active Contracts List - by Contractor
     * SSA Purchase Cardholder Roster -- Active Purchase Card Listing by
       State
     * F.A.I.R. Act Activity Listing

           " SSA Online home page button " " top of page button "

                        a red divider across the page

   Please Note:  If you have questions regarding Social Security programs
   and benefits, please visit the SSA Online home page.  Questions related
   to solicitations or acquisition announcements should be addressed to
   the appropriate contract specialist.  Comments, suggestions, or
   technical problems related to these web pages should be addressed to
   the Webmaster.  Thank you for visiting the Office of Acquisition and
   Grants web site.

Maintained by: OAG WebMaster

                                                                Last Updated: Monday, June 25, 2001
