http://www.lbl.gov/supernova/


   [datebox.gif]

                                            December 17, 1998
                                               [datebox.gif]

   [pizel.gif] Go to Berkeley Lab Home Page [pizel.gif]

                                [header.gif]
                           [sci-breakthru-hed.gif]

                                  Contacts:
           Saul Perlmutter,  (510) 486-5203,  s_perlmutter@lbl.gov
             Paul Preuss,  (510) 486-6249,  paul_preuss@lbl.gov
               Lynn Yarris,  (510) 486-5375,  lcyarris@lbl.gov


   Additional Information:

   Down-to-Earth Benefits from Far-Out Science

   Supernova Cosmology Project Research Site

   Jan 98 news release: Universe To Last Forever

   Search for Omega: Will the Universe Last Forever

   Fate of the Universe and the Cosmological Constant

   Revolution in Telescopes: The Keck

   The oldest, farthest supernova

   NERSC: Computers and Cosmology



   Images:

   High-resolution versions of image on this page

   Still images from the Supernova Cosmology Project website

   Online movie clip


   [pizel.gif] BERKELEY, CA --  By observing distant, ancient exploding
   stars, physicists and astronomers at the U.S. Department of Energy's
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and elsewhere have determined
   that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate -- an
   observation that implies the existence of a mysterious, self-repelling
   property of space first proposed by Albert Einstein, which he called
   the cosmological constant. This extraordinary finding has been named
   Science magazine's "Breakthrough of the Year for 1998."


                                                              Saul Perlmutter

   Lawrence Berkeley National Lab's Saul Perlmutter is pictured with a view of
   the supernova 1987a in the background.
   High-resolution versions available.

   The Supernova Cosmology Project, based at Berkeley Lab and headed by
   Saul Perlmutter of the Physics Division, shares the citation with the
   High-z Supernova Search Team led by Brian Schmidt of Australia's Mount
   Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories. Both teams are international
   collaborations, with researchers in England, France, Germany, and
   Sweden among the members of the Supernova Cosmology Project.

   Energy Secretary Bill Richardson expressed pride in the accomplishment
   on behalf of the Department of Energy (DOE), which funds the country's
   national laboratory system.

   "This brilliant example of quality research by DOE-supported scientists
   represents an important advance in our understanding of the universe,"
   Richardson said. "It's impressive payback, in terms of advancing human
   knowledge and developing promising new technologies, for this country's
   investment in basic science research."

   Berkeley Lab Director Charles Shank concurs. "We are proud of Berkeley
   Lab's contributions to this dramatic accomplishment," he says.  "This
   achievement is yet another example of how painstaking, imaginative,
   basic research can advance humankind's knowledge of our universe, with
   the promise of impacts on our lives that we can only begin to imagine."
   (See expanded quotes from Richardson and Shank.)

   Says Perlmutter, "A DOE facility like Berkeley Lab is a unique place
   that brings together many different areas of expertise -- particle
   physicists, astrophysicists, computer scientists, and engineers were
   all vital to our program. Just as important, the Lab environment allows
   research to continue over a long time. We worked ten years before we
   finally got the answers to our questions."

   A Special Kind of Supernova is the Key

   The surprising discovery that the expansion of the universe is
   accelerating, and thus is likely to go on expanding forever, is based
   on observations of type Ia supernovae, very bright astronomical
   "standard candles" that all have the same intrinsic brightness. Thus
   how bright they appear reveals their distance.

   By comparing the distance of these exploding stars with the redshifts
   of their home galaxies, researchers can calculate how fast the universe
   was expanding at different times in its history. Good results depend
   upon observing many type Ia supernovae, both near and far. Employing
   supercomputer facilities at the National Energy Research Scientific
   Computing Center (NERSC) located at Berkeley Lab, the Supernova
   Cosmology Project has fully analyzed the first 42 out of the more than
   80 supernovae it has discovered, and more analysis is in progress.
   (More about NERSC's role.)

   Type Ia supernovae are rare -- in a typical galaxy they may occur only
   two or three times in a thousand years -- and to be useful they must be
   detected while they are still brightening.  Before the Supernova
   Cosmology Project employed search techniques developed during the first
   five years of its existence, finding supernovae was a haphazard
   proposition, which made it difficult to secure telescope time to
   observe them.

   "It was a chicken and egg problem," says Perlmutter. "To get telescope
   time, you had to guarantee you were going to find a supernova. But
   without time on a major telescope, it was impossible to show that they
   were there, and that we could find them." Then, in the early 1990s, the
   group developed a new strategy that assured discovery of numerous
   supernovae "on demand."

   Catch An Exploding Star -- How To Do It On Demand

   Supernova Cosmology Project member Gerson Goldhaber explains how the
   "supernovae on demand" strategy works: "Just after a new moon, when the
   sky is dark, we make images of 50 to 100 patches of sky. Each contains
   roughly a thousand distant galaxies. Three weeks later the same patches
   are imaged again. Supernovae occurring anywhere in these fields show up
   as bright points of light -- some two dozen total, on average."   In
   these three weeks, the supernovae typically have not yet reached their
   brightest moments.

   Project member Peter Nugent notes that "this guarantees that we will
   have supernovae to study during the best nights for observation, right
   before the new moon." He adds, "Type Ia supernovae are so similar,
   whether nearby or far away, that the time at which an explosion started
   can be determined just from looking at its spectrum. Type Ia supernovae
   which exploded when the universe was half its present age behave the
   same as they do today."

   By 1994 the Supernova Cosmology Project had proved repeatedly that,
   with this search technique, a few nights on the world's best telescopes
   dependably resulted in many new supernova discoveries.

   "While some of us are surveying distant galaxies from the Cerro Tololo
   Interamerican Observatory (CTIO) in the Chilean Andes, others in
   Berkeley are retrieving the data over the Internet and analyzing it to
   find supernovae," says project member Greg Aldering. "Then, with the
   powerful Keck Telescope in Hawaii -- designed by physicists and
   engineers at Berkeley Lab -- we confirm spectra and measure redshifts.
   We call the Hubble Space Telescope into action to study the most
   distant supernovae, as these require much more accurate measurements
   than we can get from the ground."

   Among the supernovae discovered by the Supernova Cosmology Project are
   the most distant, and therefore the most ancient, ever seen. In the
   Jan. 1, 1998 issue of Nature magazine, Perlmutter and his colleagues
   announced that a supernova with a redshift of 0.83, equivalent to an
   age of seven billion years, had been found using the National Science
   Foundation's CTIO and the Keck telescopes and subsequently observed by
   NASA's Hubble Space Telescope. In October 1998,  the team used the Keck
   Telescope to discover a supernova dramatically more distant still;
   details of this discovery will be discussed at the American
   Astronomical Society meetings in Austin, Texas early in January. (See
   sidebar.)

   Enter Einstein's Cosmological Constant

   As their early supernova discoveries began to accumulate in 1994,
   members of the Supernova Cosmology Project developed key analytic
   techniques that, by interpreting supernova measurements, could be used
   to determine the cause of the expansion rate of the universe. At the
   time almost everybody assumed that the universe was slowing down, due
   to gravity acting on the matter in the universe. The question was, how
   quickly is it slowing? What is the mass density of the universe?
   Enough to reverse expansion, and eventually end the universe in a Big
   Crunch?

   There was also the possibility, unlikely as it seemed, that some
   intrinsic property of empty space was in play, something called the
   cosmological constant -- a term originally proposed by Einstein in
   1917, in an attempt to balance the equations of General Relativity and
   preserve a picture of a stable universe that would neither expand nor
   collapse on itself. A dozen years after Einstein introduced the
   cosmological constant, astronomer Edwin Hubble found that the universe
   is indeed expanding; Einstein dismissed his cosmological constant idea
   as "the biggest blunder of my life."

   But observations of distant type Ia supernovae place them significantly
   farther away than would be expected from their redshifts, suggesting
   that Einstein recanted too soon. Something is pushing everything
   farther apart faster than it did in the early universe. The
   cosmological constant is the best candidate.

   A Startling Discovery Confirmed

   Thus instead of slowing down, as everyone had expected, the expansion
   of the universe is in fact speeding up. In early January 1998 the
   Supernova Cosmology Project presented the first compelling evidence
   that the expansion is accelerating and that this acceleration is due to
   the cosmological constant, known by the Greek letter lambda, which may
   represent as much as 70 percent of the total mass-energy density of the
   universe. Subsequently, the High-z Supernova Search Team announced that
   they had found the same result in their data.

   Says Perlmutter, "It's important to have two competing teams; it keeps
   us all from fooling ourselves about what we're really seeing and what
   it really means." He jokes that so far the two competing groups "are in
   remarkably violent agreement."

   Barring change in the value of  lambda -- whose exact nature remains a
   mystery -- the universe will expand forever. But that conclusion is not
   being taken for granted.

   "We are now searching for more supernovae with high redshifts in order
   to get more information about the early universe," says team member
   Robert Knop. "But we are also looking for supernovae with low redshifts
   -- nearby supernovae -- to make sure that young and old type Ia
   supernovae are essentially the same, and make for dependable standard
   candles. We want to be sure we aren't being fooled by interstellar dust
   dimming the supernovae, or that stellar explosions weren't somehow
   weaker in the distant past. So far we haven't found anything to shake
   our confidence, but this is such an unexpected discovery that we'll
   keep looking for any loopholes."

   Using the world's best telescopes, including the Keck Telescope and the
   Hubble Space Telescope, Berkeley Lab's Supernova Cosmology Project
   continues to pursue studies aimed at confirming these astonishing
   results.

   Additional contacts:

   Greg Aldering, (510) 495-2203, galdering@lbl.gov
   Gerson Goldhaber, (510) 486-6210, g_goldhaber@lbl.gov
   Rob Knop, (510) 486-5878, raknop@lbl.gov
   Peter Nugent, (510) 486-6942, penugent@lbl.gov


                           Berkeley Lab Home Page
