http://fgdc.gov/publications/homeland.html

   Home What's New Search NSDI Metadata Clearinghouse Standards Framework
   Stakeholders FGDC Funding Publications Data

HOMELAND SECURITY AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS

How GIS and mapping technology can save lives and protect property in
post-September 11th America

   Introduction

   Timely, accurate information, easily accessed and capable of being
   shared across federal, state, and local political jurisdictions is
   fundamental to the decision making capability of those tasked with the
   homeland security mission. But without the real-time ability to quickly
   visualize activity patterns, map locations, and understand the multi-
   layered geospatial context of emergency situations, homeland security
   will not be achieved.

   The current state of geospatial information technology can provide
   decision-makers the data they need to confidently confront a wide
   variety of threats including natural disasters, terrorist attacks,
   sabotage, and similar crises. However, the current implementation of
   that technology, across all the federal, state, and local agencies and
   jurisdictions necessary to fully coordinate an effective response, is
   seriously lacking in specific areas.

   As the concept of Homeland Security becomes infused into the work-a-day
   pattern of government and the everyday life of our citizens, decision
   makers will greatly profit from the crisis management "edge" that GIS
   provides. Homeland Security leaders should understand and implement the
   policy changes necessary to fully realize this technology's capability,
   and make the management decisions necessary to implement it on a
   national basis.

   Background

   As never before, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September
   11, it has become clear that in emergency situations of whatever origin
   our Nation is dependent on rapid access to and application of many
   types of current, accurate geospatial information. Critical information
   such as:
     * Facilities and operations susceptible to attack.
     * Critical infrastructure, including telecommunications; electrical
       power systems; gas and oil production, storage and distribution;
       banking and finance; water supply systems; emergency services.
     * Accurate employment data tied to specific locations.
     * Detailed and current "framework" data, including orthophotography,
       transportation, elevation, political boundaries, property
       ownership, hydrography and geodetic control.

   Powerful geographic information systems are now available that quickly
   render one to several layers of digital geospatial data into map-like
   products. These systems can facilitate near-real time performance of a
   wide range of relevant geospatial analyses. These systems can be used
   to access and process digital geospatial data virtually anywhere
   because it, unlike analog data, can be instantly transmitted from
   wherever it's maintained and stored to any place where its needed.

   These characteristics make geographic information technologies,
   combined with appropriate sets of geospatial information, an invaluable
   tool for the handling, display, and analysis of information involved in
   every aspect of Homeland Security. For example:

     Detection: Geospatial information provides the spatial and temporal
     backdrop upon which effective and efficient threat analysis is
     accomplished. By linking and analyzing temporally and spatially
     associated information in real time, patterns may be detected that
     lead to timely identification of likely modalities and targets.

     Preparedness: Emergency planners and responders must often depend on
     geospatial information to accomplish their mission. Current,
     accurate information that is readily available is crucial to
     ensuring the readiness of teams to respond. Geospatial information
     access and interoperability standards are essential elements as they
     support the means for the Nation's response units to react to
     terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and other emergencies.

     Prevention: Geospatial information provides a means to detect and
     analyze patterns regarding terrorist threats and possible attacks.
     This information, coupled with information about borders, waters,
     and airspace, in turn may lead to the disruption of their plans or
     the prevention or interdiction of their attacks.

     Protection: Geospatial information is a very important component in
     the analysis of critical infrastructure vulnerabilities and in the
     use of decision support technologies such as visualization and
     simulation to anticipate and protect against cascading effects of an
     attack on one system as it relates to other interdependent systems.

     Response and Recovery: Geospatial information has been used by many
     organizations in response to and recovery from natural disasters.
     Similarly, this information is invaluable for emergency response
     services of all kinds, as well as for carrying out long-term
     recovery operations. The Federal Response Plan, developed by 26
     federal agencies and the Red Cross, identifies overall
     responsibilities and the concept of operations for presidential
     declared disasters. A number of emergency support functions are
     identified, with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
     having the lead for coordinating response to natural disasters and
     the federal wildland agencies responsible for coordinating response
     to wildland fires.

   Current Status

   Accurate and comprehensive data are the heart of information
   technology, and geographic location is a key feature of 80-90% of all
   government data. It is critical that as a Nation we take the steps
   necessary to assure that strategic information assets relative to
   Homeland Security -- particularly geospatial information assets -- are
   created, are maintained for currency and accuracy, are readily
   available to those who need them, and are interoperable. Although
   Homeland Security requires much of the same basic real-time spatial
   information needed for other uses and applications, we know from recent
   events that it must be immediately and comprehensively available.

     In short, we need to assure:

     * Implementation of a comprehensive national spatial data
       infrastructure,
     * Interoperability of the systems that process this information, and
     * Commonality of the processes that collect, manage, and disseminate
       geospatial information.

   Fortunately the Nation already has a well-founded interagency effort
   under way to build such a National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI)
   under the auspices of the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)
   which is chartered by the Office of Management and Budget. The NSDI
   provides crosscutting mechanisms for organizations of many types,
   affiliations, and responsibilities to be able to collaborate in
   assuring that geospatial data and systems are in-place, ready for use.
   The data, technology, and associated intergovernmental and
   government-private mechanisms forged in this effort will be invaluable
   to intelligence, law enforcement, and other national security-related
   elements, as well as to local communities, in dealing with terrorism
   and other major threats to public safety and welfare.

   In collaboration with all levels of government, industry, and academia,
   the FGDC and its member federal agencies have in-place a wide variety
   of effective organizational relationships and processes that could
   readily be used and expanded upon as needed -- given appropriate
   sanction and backing -- to produce a nationally consistent framework of
   Homeland Security-related base data characterized by common data
   content standards and supported by interoperable technologies. Several
   examples already exist of how this process works well:
     * The coordinated application and use of geospatial data in New York
       City in response and recovery to the World Trade Center attack.
     * Development of geospatial data as a foundation for critical
       infrastructure protection and emergency preparedness/response in
       the greater Chicago area.
     * The use of geospatial information in wildfire suppression through
       the coordinated work of the Geospatial Multi-Agency Coordinating
       Group

   However, at present there are gaps that should be filled to achieve
   assurance of data and technology accessibility and interoperability.
   Examples are:
     * National data standards still need to be developed for a number of
       framework and other data themes to provide data that is immediately
       useful in Homeland Security events.
     * NSDI Framework Themes are not yet complete.
     * E911 capabilities are limited by the lack of consistent,
       standardized road data across the Nation, preventing true
       interoperability between all levels of government.
     * Current and accurate information about the Nation's critical
       infrastructure is not consistently available or shareable among
       relevant agencies, leaving the Nation unable to effectively plan
       for modern terrorist activities.

   The FGDC believes it is imperative that the Nation accelerate
   implementation of the NSDI. As we move forward to improve and support
   planning and management activities, the contribution of geospatial
   information and technologies in support of critical decision- making
   should be fully utilized. The NSDI has already established certain
   standards, processes, and relationships that serve to advance Homeland
   Security including:
     * Well established relationships with Federal, State, Local and
       Tribal governments and ongoing coordination mechanisms such as
       I-Teams, an initiative to collect basic framework data
       collaboratively among all levels of government.
     * A multi-node geospatial information Clearinghouse Network that can
       be extended to promote rapid discovery, sharing, and protection of
       critical geospatial information.
     * Access to industry and international standards bodies and programs
       to advance standards that promote data consistency and
       interoperability of spatial technologies.

   Recommendations

   It is our opinion that more needs to be done to fully realize the
   potential this technology brings to decision making. To that end, we
   recommend that the Office of Homeland Security consider the following
   recommendations:
    1. Address the gaps outlined above by supporting:
         a. National data standards
         b. Completion of all NSDI Framework Themes
         c. Nationwide geospatial data compatibility for E911 operations
         d. Compilation of comprehensive georeferenced information on
            Critical Infrastructure
    2. Bring additional focus on these activities to elected officials at
       all levels of government across the Nation.
    3. Promote, enhance, and provide sufficient resources for
       collaborative relationships between federal, state and local
       agencies and with the private sector.
    4. Develop uniform approaches to planning for Homeland Security events
       while relying on standardized data and systems.
    5. Develop sophisticated mobile GIS labs and trained staff that can be
       delivered to any site in the Nation within 12 hours of an event.

   For more Information Contact:

     Federal Geographic Data Committee
     Reston, VA 20192
     www.fgdc.gov
     Phone 703-648-5752
     Fax 703-648-5755


     Geospatial data Graphic, Visualization Mapping Knowledge, includes
     photos of 3 different maps.
