http://www.plia.wa.gov/llp/index.html

               Go to Access Washington Return to the PLIA Home

   Home About Us UST Reinsurance Heating Oil Insurance Heating Oil Advice
   and Assistance Heating Oil Decommissioning Community Assistance Program
   Lender Liability
   Return to Lender Liability

                                 Background

   In 1980, Congress passed the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
   Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), more popularly known as
   Superfund. CERCLA makes past or present owners and operators of sites
   containing hazardous waste, as well as the generator or transporter of
   the waste, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs. An
   exemption was provided for lender's security interests. The courts,
   however, have been inconsistent in interpreting that exemption.

   Washington adopted the Model Toxics Control Act (MTCA) by initiative in
   1989. The law is similar to CERCLA. It requires the Department of
   Ecology to conduct or require remedial action to remedy releases of
   hazardous substances. Under MTCA, the current owner of the site, the
   owner at the time of waste disposal, and those generating or
   transporting the waste are jointly and severally liable for the costs
   of site cleanup. In the definition of owner or operator, and exception
   is provided for lender's security interests. It important to note,
   however, that MTCA applies to petroleum contamination, but CERCLA does
   not.

   The 1995 Legislature (SHB 1856) amended MTCA to clarify the liability
   of lenders. The EPA followed suit in responding to the lack of clarity
   with regard to the liability of lenders in September 1995 by publishing
   (Federal Register September 7, 1995) a UST-specific lender liability
   rule. The rule specifies conditions under which certain secured lenders
   may be exempted from Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)
   Subtitle 1 regulatory requirements for petroleum underground storage
   tanks. Under the EPA rule, a lender is eligible for an exemption, both
   prior to and after foreclosure, from compliance with Subtitle 1
   requirements as an UST owner and operator if the lender: (1) holds an
   ownership interest in an UST, or in a property on which the UST is
   located, in order to protect its security interest; (2) does not engage
   in petroleum production, refining, marketing; and (3) does not
   participate in the management or operation of the UST.

   Lender liability relief provided by Washington's legislature is
   considered to be more generous than that provided by the EPA rule and
   the remainder of this paper will focus on the modification to MTCA by
   SHB 1856.

           Background | The Secured Lender Exemption | Limitations

                                [line550.gif]

   Home | About Us | UST Reinsurance | Heating Oil Insurance | Heating Oil
     Advice & Assistance |Tank Decommissioning | Community Assistance |
                              Lender Liability

   Contact the Pollution Liability Insurance Agency.
   Please read our disclaimer and privacy statement.
