http://newyork.fbi.gov/contact/fo/nyfo/ert/ert.htm

                         THE EVIDENCE RESPONSE TEAM

                      Evidence Response Team NY Office

   The bulk of the FBI New York Office's forensic capability rests with
   the thirty-six member New York Evidence Response Team (NY/ERT). The
   Evidence Response Team (ERT) program is purely voluntary and those who
   participate must balance training and operational requirements with
   their everyday squad duties. The NY/ERT is comprised of a coordinator
   and three teams of 12 Special Agent and Support personnel who rotate
   "on duty status" every two weeks.

                            THE NEW YORK PROGRAM

   The ERT program, while voluntary, requires a significant amount of work
   to ensure that matters relating to operational, training, and
   administrative requirements are not only met, but improved upon. In
   addition to the coordinator, who is the overall program manager, the
   NY/ERT has a management staff which ensures that attention is focused
   upon the most important areas in maintaining and expanding the NY/ERT
   program. These responsibilities are outlined below:
     * The Administrative Officer maintains accurate and current records
       relating to personnel information and ERT program administrative
       files.
     * The Operations/Training Officer coordinates the training activities
       of the team and the individual ERT members. He/she seeks out new
       training programs and conducts liaison activities with the FBI and
       outside agencies.
     * The Equipment/Logistics Officer maintains adequate supplies for
       operational missions, maintains records of equipment issued to each
       ERT member, and coordinates logistical support for the NY/ERT
       during missions outside FBI New York territorial jurisdiction.
     * The Medical Officer coordinates medical training, ensures that ERT
       members have, and are current with, their inoculations, and that
       injuries are duly documented and forwarded to the Health Services
       Unit.
     * The Team Leader maintains the day-to-day availability and
       accountability of their particular team with regards to training
       and operational requirements.
     * The Assistant Team Leader acts as the Team Leader in his/her
       absence and performs major assignments as directed by the Team
       leader.

   The NY/ERT has three teams (Red, White, and Blue) comprised of twelve
   members each who rotate "on duty status" every two weeks. In the event
   of a major incident, such as TWA 800, everyone is called upon.

                                  EQUIPMENT

   Support for major equipment purchases for the ERT program is provided
   by the Evidence Response Team Unit (ERTU), at the FBI Academy,
   Quantico, Virginia. Another source of funding is the FBI New York
   Office budget. The NY/ERT is extremely fortunate to have FBI New York
   Office management support in this area as it allows the NY/ERT program
   to continually expand and improve upon the services it provides.

   The NY/ERT currently has two vehicles complete with total emergency
   light package and communications equipment. These vehicles can operate
   over radio frequencies in the VHF and UHF range, communicate via
   cellular telephone with secure capabilities, and provide AC power in
   the field. The NY/ERT also has two full-size heavy equipment trucks, a
   cargo van, and a step van for use in major responses and for supply
   purposes. Additionally, the NY/ERT has a 14-foot and an 18-foot cargo
   trailer.

   The 14-foot trailer is used locally to transport the heavy and unique
   equipment not necessary on most responses. The  18-foot trailer is
   stocked with supplies and equipment intended for deployment to a major
   event nationally or even internationally, and is intended to keep two
   ERT teams supplied for three days.

   Of course, the NY/ERT has the numerous individual items that any crime
   scene unit would have in the areas of latent fingerprint processing,
   alternate light sources, evidence vacuums, laptop computers, and
   individual safety equipment.

                                  TRAINING

   The ERT is a group of highly trained Special Agent and Support
   personnel whose specialty is organizing and collecting evidence using a
   variety of technical evidence recovery techniques. Further, the ERT is
   comprised of forensically trained personnel with unique collection
   abilities, which may be used in unusual searches or crime scenes.

   The NY/ERT conducts monthly training on the first Wednesday of each
   month. Each ERT member completes a minimum of 80 hours of Basic
   Instruction as provided by the Evidence Response Team Unit.
   Additionally, the NY/ERT aggressively seeks training from outside
   agency resources.

   The NY/ERT works to establish partnerships in the law enforcement
   community to obtain and provide training and operational support to any
   agency that requests such training.

                            OPERATIONAL RESPONSES

   The NY/ERT was used operationally 11 times during fiscal year (FY)
   1996. Please note that the TWA 800 investigation began July 17, 1996,
   and required a massive manpower commitment that lasted well into the
   1997 FY. TWA 800 notwithstanding, the NY/ERT is used on numerous
   criminal and national security matters in which the forensic recovery
   of evidence is deemed necessary.

   The NY/ERT was used operationally 65 times in FY 1997. During that
   time, the NY/ERT continued supporting the TWA 800 investigation. An
   analysis of the operational responses determined that over 13,000 man
   hours were expended by ERT members in support of the FBI mission in FY
   1997, in which members:

   1) Traveled overseas twice to conduct training for foreign law
   enforcement in support of FBI Headquarters.

   2) Traveled outside the New York division twice to assist other FBI
   ERT's.

   3) Assisted the New York Office Criminal Division on 42 occasions.

   4) Assisted the National Security Division--Foreign Counterintelligence
   on seven occasions.

   5) Assisted the National Security Division--Terrorism on eight
   occasions.

   6) Assisted the Special Operations Division on one occasion.

   7) Assisted an outside law enforcement agency once.

   8) Made public relations presentations in support of the Administrative
   Division on two occasions.

   As of 2/1/99, during FY 1999, the NY/ERT has been used operationally on
   seventeen (17) occasions. The ERT Program is purely voluntary, with its
   members dedicating extra time to making it the most active, work
   intensive, and responsive volunteer program in the New York Office. Any
   questions regarding the NY/ERT may be directed through the FBI NYO,
   ATTN: SA Stanley A. Ragen - NY/ERT Coordinator.

                      RELATED ARTICLES AND PUBLICATIONS

                 The search and recovery of TWA Flight 800:

   * ERT - TWA

                                 ERT's Response to TWA Flight 800
   * SORTIE  - February 1998

                                 U.S.C.G. at Group Moriches
   * Dive Journal - November 1997

                                 The New York State Police Scuba Team
   * Dive Journal - October 1997

                                 The Suffolk County Police Department Scuba Team
   * Dive Journal - July 1997

                                 The FBI New York Scuba Team
   * Dive Journal - January 1997

                                 ERT Member SAC Cantamessa Interview

   Meet the members of the K-9 Program:
     * K-9 Program

   ERT International Training:
     * Republic of Paraguay
     * Republic of Panama
     * Republic of Uzbekistan


   Link to New York Home Page

                             New York Field Office Home Page


   Updated April 30, 1999
