http://www.ed.gov/offices/OCFO/contracts.html

         U.S. Department of Education Seal ED Contracts Information

                                  red line

     Link to Available RFPs page Link to Solicitations Documents On-Line
    page Link to RFP Request Instructions page Link to Contract Forecast
            page Link to Bidders List item Link to Business Guide

                                  red line

     * Forecast of Upcoming Contract Activity - A list of possible
       upcoming U.S. Department of Education (ED) acquisitions. The list
       is updated periodically as funding and Departmental plans change.
       The list provides special instructions for acquisitions that have
       been set-aside for 8(a)eligible contractors.
     * CBD and Other Acquisition Notices - Notices from the Commerce
       Business Daily (CBD) of currently available ED acquisitions.
       Occasionally, CBD notices reference procurement notes which are
       incorporated by reference. Also included are ED notices of intent
       to purchase posted in accordance with FAR 5.101(a)(2). CBDNet is
       the official free online service for all Federal agency procurement
       notices.
     * Contract Solicitations and Work Statements Online - Contract
       solicitations and Draft Work Statements available for download.
       Also, ED posts all synopses and solicitations on FedBizOpps (FBO).
       FBO is the single point on the Internet where vendors can access
       information needed to bid on government contracts over $25,000.00.
       Vendors may view a synopsis, download a solicitation and register
       to receive notification of modifications. The site also provides
       the capability to search for business opportunities by agency,
       posted date, and classification code. Documents from closed
       solicitations that were previously released are available in
       Archived Contract Solicitations .
     * Active Contracts - A list of active ED contracts is available by
       Principal Office, by Vendor, or by Contract Number. All three lists
       contain the same information, only the sort order is different.
       Data provided includes Contract Number, Vendor Name, Award and End
       Dates, Current Value, Responsible ED Principal Office, and Contract
       Description or Title.
     * Contract Award Database - Awards Made Since FY 1996 - Online
       database of contract awards made since Fiscal Year 1996 which can
       be searched by Fiscal Year and/or Quarter. Information available
       for awards includes Contract Number, Award Date, Dollar Amount,
       Contractor Name, Type of Contractor, Procurement Preference
       Program, Women-owned Business Designation, and Product Service
       Code. NOTE: This database is operated by the Federal Procurement
       Data Center - clicking the link above will take you out of the
       Department of Education's web site. Instructions for using the
       database. Please read the instructions carefully in order to search
       the appropriate Contracting Office.
     * Requesting an RFP - Interested parties can request an RFP by phone,
       e-mail or regular mail.
     * Contractor/Vendor Registration (Education's Bidders List) -
       Instructions for enrolling on the Department's bidders list, used
       to alert contractors about acquisitions being advertised in their
       particular interest areas. Organizations wishing to apply by mail
       can download the bidder's list application form. The Adobe Acrobat
       Reader, which is available free, is required to view and print the
       application form. One can also add names to the ED Bidder's List
       electronically.
     * Contractor Registration (Federal Government-wide) - In addition to
       registering on ED's bidders list, contractors/vendors should
       consider registering on the Federal government-wide Central
       Contractor Registration system. Registration and Instructions |
       Further information on Federal Electronic Commerce at DoD.
     * Doing Business with the U.S. Department of Education - This guide
       provides general information about the contracting process at the
       Department of Education and would be of special interest to
       prospective contractors new to the Department. Each Principal
       Operating Component within ED has staff authorized to make
       purchases with the Government Purchase Card.
     * Education Contract Reference Library - An online library of ED
       contract reference documents. An online library of Federal
       acquisition reference documents can be found in The Federal
       Acquisition Virtual Library.

                                  red line

     Link to GCI Main page Link to What's New page Link to Protection of
     Human Subjects page Link to Federal Register Documents page Link to
                 Grants Information page Link to Search page

                                  red line

                 Link to ED Home page Link to OCFO Home page


    Send mail to: ocfoweb@ed.gov

                 This page last updated on 01/28/2002 (GLW)
