http://km.gov/content_mgmt/content_mgmt.html

   [km-gov-title.gif] FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
        Welcome to KM.GOV Hot and Late Breaking Knowledge Management News
   Working Group Members Working Group Documents Special Interest Groups
   Knowledge Management Resources and Links Knowledge Management Events
   and Conferences [e-KM.gif] Federal Chief Information Officers' Council

    Communities of Practice Content Management Government-wide Communities
      of Practice Knowledge Management Education, Learning and Development
      KM.GOV Content and KM Technology Knowledge Management Stories Public
                                                       Policy and Outreach


   [transparent.gif]

Purpose

   The Content Management Special Interest Group was formed to address the
   many issues involved in information content management: information
   technology, workforce training, content acquisition and organization,
   and leadership and policy.

   The Group's membership is comprised of IT professionals who have an
   interest in the topic and Federal librarians who have traditionally
   been responsible for the acquisition and arrangement of information
   resources. The librarians also represent the Federal Library and
   Information Center Committee (FLICC), a consortium of Federal libraries
   which is managed by the Library of Congress. FLICC has had a long
   standing interest in the uses of information technology in libraries
   and that interest has grown to include the topics of both Knowledge
   Management and content management.

   The Content Management Special Interest Group is interested in a range
   of issues including the identification of information resources,
   various organizational methods including taxonomies and metadata,
   authentication issues, and software applications. The Group has
   organized itself into three subgroups: Architecture and Tools, Skills,
   and Leadership and Policy. This structure recognizes the fact that
   content management is a broad issue that needs to addressed in a
   variety of ways from policy development to staff development, and, most
   importantly, customer service. Each subgroup is developing its own work
   plan for the identification of issues and tasks. Additionally, the
   overall group organizes and sponsors a bi-monthly CM Discussion Series,
   open to the public, in which field experts are invited to present
   content management topics. This series is generally video taped and can
   be viewed online: http://www.loc.gov/flicc/video/cmwg/cmwgintro.htm

   The Group is interested in attracting new members and in discussing new
   projects and activities. Interested individuals may visit the Content
   Management Special Interest Group's bulletin board for more
   information:
   http://www.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ubb6/ultimatebb.cgi

Contacts

   Blane Dessy, Co-Chair
   202.514.2133
   blane.dessy@usdoj.gov

   Rod Atkinson, Co-Chair
   202.707.9339
   ratkinson@crs.loc.gov

   SUBGROUP CHAIRPERSONS

   Architecture

   James King
   202.767.7515
   jamesk@library.nrl.navy.mil

   Barry Wheeler
   301.827.5688
   wheelerb@cder.fda.gov

   Leadership & Policy

   Ken Nero
   202.273.0147
   kenneth.nero@nlrb.gov

   Skills

   David McBee
   202.898.3852
   dmcbee@fdic.gov


Documents

   Documents and other information pertaining to this Special Interest
   Group are posted on the Groups Bulletin Board.

   The next meeting:

   KM Working Group Calendar
