http://www.ca5.uscourts.gov/clerk/frap/frap2001-body.htm

                    FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE
                        (Effective December 1, 1998);
               5TH CIR. R.  and INTERNAL OPERATING PROCEDURES

                         (Effective January 1, 2001)

                       TITLE I. APPLICABILITY OF RULES

   FRAP 1. SCOPE OF RULES; TITLE

   (a)Scope of Rules.

   (1)These rules govern procedure in the United States courts of appeals.

   (2)When these rules provide for filing a motion or other document in
   the district court, the procedure must comply with the practice of the
   district court.

   (b)Rules Do Not Affect Jurisdiction. These rules do not extend or limit
   the jurisdiction of the courts of appeals.

   (c)Title. These rules are to be known as the Federal Rules of Appellate
   Procedure.

   FRAP 2. SUSPENSION OF RULES

   On its own or a party's motion, a court of appeals may -- to expedite
   its decision or for other good cause -- suspend any provision of these
   rules in a particular case and order proceedings as it directs, except
   as otherwise provided in Rule 26(b).

        TITLE II. APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OR ORDER OF A DISTRICT COURT

   FRAP 3. APPEAL AS OF RIGHT -- HOW TAKEN

   (a)Filing the Notice of Appeal.

   (1)An appeal permitted by law as of right from a district court to a
   court of appeals may be taken only by filing a notice of appeal with
   the district clerk within the time allowed by Rule 4. At the time of
   filing, the appellant must furnish the clerk with enough copies of the
   notice to enable the clerk to comply with Rule 3(d).

   (2)An appellant's failure to take any step other than the timely filing
   of a notice of appeal does not affect the validity of the appeal, but
   is ground only for the court of appeals to act as it considers
   appropriate, including dismissing the appeal.

   (3)An appeal from a judgment by a magistrate judge in a civil case is
   taken in the same way as an appeal from any other district court
   judgment.

   (4)An appeal by permission under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b) or an appeal in a
   bankruptcy case may be taken only in the manner prescribed by Rules 5
   and 6, respectively.

   (b)Joint or Consolidated Appeals.

   (1)When two or more parties are entitled to appeal from a
   district-court judgment or order, and their interests make joinder
   practicable, they may file a joint notice of appeal. They may then
   proceed on appeal as a single appellant.

   (2)When the parties have filed separate timely notices of appeal, the
   appeals may be joined or consolidated by the court of appeals.

   (c)Contents of the Notice of Appeal.

   (1)The notice of appeal must:

   (A)specify the party or parties taking the appeal by naming each one in
   the caption or body of the notice, but an attorney representing more
   than one party may describe those parties with such terms as "all
   plaintiffs," "the defendants," "the plaintiffs A, B, et al.," or "all
   defendants except X";

   (B)designate the judgment, order, or part thereof being appealed; and

   (C)name the court to which the appeal is taken.

   (2)A pro se notice of appeal is considered filed on behalf of the
   signer and the signer's spouse and minor children (if they are
   parties), unless the notice clearly indicates otherwise.

   (3)In a class action, whether or not the class has been certified, the
   notice of appeal is sufficient if it names one person qualified to
   bring the appeal as representative of the class.

   (4)An appeal must not be dismissed for informality of form or title of
   the notice of appeal, or for failure to name a party whose intent to
   appeal is otherwise clear from the notice.

   (5)Form 1 in the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a notice of
   appeal.

   (d)Serving the Notice of Appeal.

   (1)The district clerk must serve notice of the filing of a notice of
   appeal by mailing a copy to each party's counsel of record -- excluding
   the appellant's -- or, if a party is proceeding pro se, to the party's
   last known address. When a defendant in a criminal case appeals, the
   clerk must also serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the defendant,
   either by personal service or by mail addressed to the defendant. The
   clerk must promptly send a copy of the notice of appeal and of the
   docket entries -- and any later docket entries -- to the clerk of the
   court of appeals named in the notice. The district clerk must note, on
   each copy, the date when the notice of appeal was filed.

   (2)If an inmate confined in an institution files a notice of appeal in
   the manner provided by Rule 4(c), the district clerk must also note the
   date when the clerk docketed the notice.

   (3)The district clerk's failure to serve notice does not affect the
   validity of the appeal. The clerk must note on the docket the names of
   the parties to whom the clerk mails copies, with the date of mailing.
   Service is sufficient despite the death of a party or the party's
   counsel.

   (e)Payment of Fees. Upon filing a notice of appeal, the appellant must
   pay the district clerk all required fees. The district clerk receives
   the appellate docket fee on behalf of the court of appeals.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 3

   Filing Fee. When the notice of appeal is filed, the $105 fees
   established by 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913 and 1917 must be paid to the district
   court clerk. After the Fifth Circuit receives a duplicate copy of a
   notice of appeal, the clerk will send counsel or a party notice
   advising of other requirements of the rule. No additional fees are
   required. Failure to pay the fees does not prevent the appeal from
   being docketed, but is grounds for dismissal under 5th Cir. R. 42.

   FRAP 3.1. APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF A MAGISTRATE JUDGE IN A CIVIL CASE

   [Abrogated]

   FRAP 4. APPEAL AS OF RIGHT -- WHEN TAKEN

   (a)Appeal in a Civil Case.

   (1)Time for Filing a Notice of Appeal.

   (A)In a civil case, except as provided in Rules 4(a)(1)(B), 4(a)(4),
   and 4(c), the notice of appeal required by Rule 3 must be filed with
   the district clerk within 30 days after the judgment or order appealed
   from is entered.

   (B)When the United States or its officer or agency is a party, the
   notice of appeal may be filed by any party within 60 days after the
   judgment or order appealed from is entered.

   (2)Filing Before Entry of Judgment. A notice of appeal filed after the
   court announces a decision or order  -- but before the entry of the
   judgment or order -- is treated as filed on the date of and after the
   entry.

   (3)Multiple Appeals. If one party timely files a notice of appeal, any
   other party may file a notice of appeal within 14 days after the date
   when the first notice was filed, or within the time otherwise
   prescribed by this Rule 4(a), whichever period ends later.

   (4)Effect of a Motion on a Notice of Appeal.

   (A)If a party timely files in the district court any of the following
   motions under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the time to file an
   appeal runs for all parties from the entry of the order disposing of
   the last such remaining motion:

   (i)for judgment under Rule 50(b);

   (ii)to amend or make additional factual findings under Rule 52(b),
   whether or not granting the motion would alter the judgment;

   (iii)for attorney's fees under Rule 54 if the district court extends
   the time to appeal under Rule 58;

   (iv)to alter or amend the judgment under Rule 59;

   (v)for a new trial under Rule 59; or

   (vi)for relief under Rule 60 if the motion is filed no later than 10
   days (computed using Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 6(a)) after the
   judgment is entered.

   (B)(i)If a party files a notice of appeal after the court announces or
   enters a judgment -- but before it disposes of any motion listed in
   Rule 4(a)(4)(A) -- the notice becomes effective to appeal a judgment or
   order, in whole or in part, when the order disposing of the last such
   remaining motion is entered.

   (ii)A party intending to challenge an order disposing of any motion
   listed in Rule 4(a)(4)(A), or a judgment altered or amended upon such a
   motion, must file a notice of appeal, or an amended notice of appeal --
   in compliance with Rule 3(c) -- within the time prescribed by this Rule
   measured from the entry of the order disposing of the last such
   remaining motion.

   (iii)No additional fee is required to file an amended notice.

   (5)Motion for Extension of Time.

   (A)The district court may extend the time to file a notice of appeal
   if:

   (i)a party so moves no later than 30 days after the time prescribed by
   this Rule 4(a) expires; and

   (ii)that party shows excusable neglect or good cause.

   (B)A motion filed before the expiration of the time prescribed in Rule
   4(a)(1) or (3) may be ex parte unless the court requires otherwise. If
   the motion is filed after the expiration of the prescribed time, notice
   must be given to the other parties in accordance with local rules.

   (C)No extension under this Rule 4(a)(5) may exceed 30 days after the
   prescribed time or 10 days after the date when the order granting the
   motion is entered, whichever is later.

   (6)Reopening the Time to File an Appeal. The district court may reopen
   the time to file an appeal for a period of 14 days after the date when
   its order to reopen is entered, but only if all the following
   conditions are satisfied:

   (A)the motion is filed within 180 days after the judgment or order is
   entered or within 7 days after the moving party receives notice of the
   entry, whichever is earlier;

   (B)the court finds that the moving party was entitled to notice of the
   entry of the judgment or order sought to be appealed but did not
   receive the notice from the district court or any party within 21 days
   after entry; and

   (C)the court finds that no party would be prejudiced.

   (7)Entry Defined. A judgment or order is entered for purposes of this
   Rule 4(a) when it is entered in compliance with Rules 58 and 79(a) of
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

   (b)Appeal in a Criminal Case.

   (1)Time for Filing a Notice of Appeal.

   (A)In a criminal case, a defendant's notice of appeal must be filed in
   the district court within 10 days after the later of:

   (i)the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed; or

   (ii)the filing of the government's notice of appeal.

   (B)When the government is entitled to appeal, its notice of appeal must
   be filed in the district court within 30 days after the later of:

   (i)the entry of the judgment or order being appealed; or

   (ii)the filing of a notice of appeal by any defendant.

   (2)Filing Before Entry of Judgment. A notice of appeal filed after the
   court announces a decision, sentence, or order -- but before the entry
   of the judgment or order -- is treated as filed on the date of and
   after the entry.

   (3)Effect of a Motion on a Notice of Appeal.

   (A)If a defendant timely makes any of the following motions under the
   Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the notice of appeal from a
   judgment of conviction must be filed within 10 days after the entry of
   the order disposing of the last such remaining motion, or within 10
   days after the entry of the judgment of conviction, whichever period
   ends later. This provision applies to a timely motion:

   (i)for judgment of acquittal under Rule 29;

   (ii)for a new trial under Rule 33, but if based on newly discovered
   evidence, only if the motion is made no later than 10 days after the
   entry of the judgment; or

   (iii)for arrest of judgment under Rule 34.

   (B)A notice of appeal filed after the court announces a decision,
   sentence, or order -- but before it disposes of any of the motions
   referred to in Rule 4(b)(3)(A) -- becomes effective upon the later of
   the following:

   (i)the entry of the order disposing of the last such remaining motion;
   or

   (ii)the entry of the judgment of conviction.

   (C)A valid notice of appeal is effective -- without amendment -- to
   appeal from an order disposing of any of the motions referred to in
   Rule 4(b)(3)(A).

   (4)Motion for Extension of Time. Upon a finding of excusable neglect or
   good cause, the district court may -- before or after the time has
   expired, with or without motion and notice -- extend the time to file a
   notice of appeal for a period not to exceed 30 days from the expiration
   of the time otherwise prescribed by this Rule 4(b).

   (5)Jurisdiction. The filing of a notice of appeal under this Rule 4(b)
   does not divest a district court of jurisdiction to correct a sentence
   under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(c), nor does the filing of
   a motion under 35(c) affect the validity of a notice of appeal filed
   before entry of the order disposing of the motion.

   (6)Entry Defined. A judgment or order is entered for purposes of this
   Rule 4(b) when it is entered on the criminal docket.

   (c)Appeal by an Inmate Confined in an Institution.

   (1)If an inmate confined in an institution files a notice of appeal in
   either a civil or a criminal case, the notice is timely if it is
   deposited in the institution's internal mail system on or before the
   last day for filing. If an institution has a system designed for legal
   mail, the inmate must use that system to receive the benefit of this
   rule. Timely filing may be shown by a declaration in compliance with 28
   U.S.C. § 1746 or by a notarized statement, either of which must set
   forth the date of deposit and state that first-class postage has been
   prepaid.

   (2)If an inmate files the first notice of appeal in a civil case under
   this Rule 4(c), the 14-day period provided in Rule 4(a)(3) for another
   party to file a notice of appeal runs from the date when the district
   court dockets the first notice.

   (3)When a defendant in a criminal case files a notice of appeal under
   this Rule 4(c), the 30-day period for the government to file its notice
   of appeal runs from the entry of the judgment or order appealed from or
   from the district court's docketing of the defendant's notice of
   appeal, whichever is later.

   (d)Mistaken Filing in the Court of Appeals. If a notice of appeal in
   either a civil or a criminal case is mistakenly filed in the court of
   appeals, the clerk of that court must note on the notice the date when
   it was received and send it to the district clerk. The notice is then
   considered filed in the district court on the date so noted.

   FRAP 5. APPEAL BY PERMISSION

   (a)Petition for Permission to Appeal.

   (1)To request permission to appeal when an appeal is within the court
   of appeals' discretion, a party must file a petition for permission to
   appeal. The petition must be filed with the circuit clerk with proof of
   service on all other parties to the district-court action.

   (2)The petition must be filed within the time specified by the statute
   or rule authorizing the appeal or, if no such time is specified, within
   the time provided by Rule 4(a) for filing a notice of appeal.

   (3)If a party cannot petition for appeal unless the district court
   first enters an order granting permission to do so or stating that the
   necessary conditions are met, the district court may amend its order,
   either on its own or in response to a party's motion, to include the
   required permission or statement. In that event, the time to petition
   runs from entry of the amended order.

   (b)Contents of the Petition; Answer or Cross-Petition; Oral Argument.

   (1)The petition must include the following:

   (A)the facts necessary to understand the question presented;

   (B)the question itself;

   (C)the relief sought;

   (D)the reasons why the appeal should be allowed and is authorized by a
   statute or rule; and

   (E)an attached copy of:

   (i)the order, decree, or judgment complained of and any related opinion
   or memorandum, and

   (ii)any order stating the district court's permission to appeal or
   finding that the necessary conditions are met.

   (2)A party may file an answer in opposition or a cross-petition within
   7 days after the petition is served.

   (3)The petition and answer will be submitted without oral argument
   unless the court of appeals orders otherwise.

   (c)Form of Papers; Number of Copies. All papers must conform to Rule
   32(a)(1). An original and 3 copies must be filed unless the court
   requires a different number by local rule or by order in a particular
   case.

   (d)Grant of Permission; Fees; Cost Bond; Filing the Record.

   (1)Within 10 days after the entry of the order granting permission to
   appeal, the appellant must:

   (A)pay the district clerk all required fees; and

   (B)file a cost bond if required under Rule 7.

   (2)A notice of appeal need not be filed. The date when the order
   granting permission to appeal is entered serves as the date of the
   notice of appeal for calculating time under these rules.

   (3)The district clerk must notify the circuit clerk once the petitioner
   has paid the fees. Upon receiving this notice, the circuit clerk must
   enter the appeal on the docket. The record must be forwarded and filed
   in accordance with Rules 11 and 12(c).

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 5

   Length
   . A petition for permission to appeal must not exceed 20 pages and any
   answer to the petition must not exceed 10 pages. The certificate of
   interested persons, corporate disclosure statement, proof of service
   and the accompanying documents required by Fed. R. App. P. 5(b)(1)(E)
   do not count toward the page limit.

   FRAP 5.1. APPEAL BY LEAVE UNDER 28 U.S.C. § 636(c)(5)

   [Abrogated]

   FRAP 6. APPEAL IN A BANKRUPTCY CASE FROM A FINAL JUDGMENT, ORDER, OR
   DECREE OF A DISTRICT COURT OR BANKRUPTCY APPELLATE PANEL

   (a)Appeal From a Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court
   Exercising Original Jurisdiction in a Bankruptcy Case. An appeal to a
   court of appeals from a final judgment, order, or decree of a district
   court exercising jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1334 is taken as any
   other civil appeal under these rules.

   (b)Appeal From a Judgment, Order, or Decree of a District Court or
   Bankruptcy Appellate Panel Exercising Appellate Jurisdiction in a
   Bankruptcy Case.

   (1)Applicability of Other Rules. These rules apply to an appeal to a
   court of appeals under 28 U.S.C. § 158(d) from a final judgment, order,
   or decree of a district court or bankruptcy appellate panel exercising
   appellate jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) or (b). But there are 3
   exceptions:

   (A)Rules 4(a)(4), 4(b), 9, 10, 11, 12(b), 13-20, 22-23, and 24(b) do
   not apply;

   (B)the reference in Rule 3(c) to "Form 1 in the Appendix of Forms" must
   be read as a reference to Form 5; and

   (C)when the appeal is from a bankruptcy appellate panel, the term
   "district court," as used in any applicable rule, means "appellate
   panel."

   (2)Additional Rules. In addition to the rules made applicable by Rule
   6(b)(1), the following rules apply:

   (A)Motion for rehearing.

   (i)If a timely motion for rehearing under Bankruptcy Rule 8015 is
   filed, the time to appeal for all parties runs from the entry of the
   order disposing of the motion. A notice of appeal filed after the
   district court or bankruptcy appellate panel announces or enters a
   judgment, order, or decree -- but before disposition of the motion for
   rehearing -- becomes effective when the order disposing of the motion
   for rehearing is entered.

   (ii)Appellate review of the order disposing of the motion requires the
   party, in compliance with Rules 3(c) and 6(b)(1)(B), to amend a
   previously filed notice of appeal. A party intending to challenge an
   altered or amended judgment, order, or decree must file a notice of
   appeal or amended notice of appeal within the time prescribed by Rule 4
   -- excluding Rules 4(a)(4) and 4(b) -- measured from the entry of the
   order disposing of the motion.

   (iii)No additional fee is required to file an amended notice.

   (B)The record on appeal.

   (i)Within 10 days after filing the notice of appeal, the appellant must
   file with the clerk possessing the record assembled in accordance with
   Bankruptcy Rule 8006 -- and serve on the appellee -- a statement of the
   issues to be presented on appeal and a designation of the record to be
   certified and sent to the circuit clerk.

   (ii)An appellee who believes that other parts of the record are
   necessary must, within 10 days after being served with the appellant's
   designation, file with the clerk and serve on the appellant a
   designation of additional parts to be included.

   (iii)The record on appeal consists of:

   •the redesignated record as provided above;

   •the proceedings in the district court or bankruptcy appellate panel;
   and

   •a certified copy of the docket entries prepared by the clerk under
   Rule 3(d).

   (C)Forwarding the record.

   (i)When the record is complete, the district clerk or bankruptcy
   appellate panel clerk must number the documents constituting the record
   and send them promptly to the circuit clerk together with a list of the
   documents correspondingly numbered and reasonably identified. Unless
   directed to do so by a party or the circuit clerk, the clerk will not
   send to the court of appeals documents of unusual bulk or weight,
   physical exhibits other than documents, or other parts of the record
   designated for omission by local rule of the court of appeals. If the
   exhibits are unusually bulky or heavy, a party must arrange with the
   clerks in advance for their transportation and receipt.

   (ii)All parties must do whatever else is necessary to enable the clerk
   to assemble and forward the record. The court of appeals may provide by
   rule or order that a certified copy of the docket entries be sent in
   place of the redesignated record, but any party may request at any time
   during the pendency of the appeal that the redesignated record be sent.

   (D)Filing the record. Upon receiving the record -- or a certified copy
   of the docket entries sent in place of the redesignated record -- the
   circuit clerk must file it and immediately notify all parties of the
   filing date.

   FRAP 7. BOND FOR COSTS ON APPEAL IN A CIVIL CASE

   In a civil case, the district court may require an appellant to file a
   bond or provide other security in any form and amount necessary to
   ensure payment of costs on appeal. Rule 8(b) applies to a surety on a
   bond given under this rule.

   FRAP 8. STAY OR INJUNCTION PENDING APPEAL

   (a)Motion for Stay.

   (1)Initial Motion in the District Court. A party must ordinarily move
   first in the district court for the following relief:

   (A)a stay of the judgment or order of a district court pending appeal;

   (B)approval of a supersedeas bond; or

   (C)an order suspending, modifying, restoring, or granting an injunction
   while an appeal is pending.

   (2)Motion in the Court of Appeals; Conditions on Relief. A motion for
   the relief mentioned in Rule 8(a)(1) may be made to the court of
   appeals or to one of its judges.

   (A)The motion must:

   (i)show that moving first in the district court would be impracticable;
   or

   (ii)state that, a motion having been made, the district court denied
   the motion or failed to afford the relief requested and state any
   reasons given by the district court for its action.

   (B)The motion must also include:

   (i)the reasons for granting the relief requested and the facts relied
   on;

   (ii)originals or copies of affidavits or other sworn statements
   supporting facts subject to dispute; and

   (iii)relevant parts of the record.

   (C)The moving party must give reasonable notice of the motion to all
   parties.

   (D)A motion under this Rule 8(a)(2) must be filed with the circuit
   clerk and normally will be considered by a panel of the court. But in
   an exceptional case in which time requirements make that procedure
   impracticable, the motion may be made to and considered by a single
   judge.

   (E)The court may condition relief on a party's filing a bond or other
   appropriate security in the district court.

   (b)Proceeding Against a Surety. If a party gives security in the form
   of a bond or stipulation or other undertaking with one or more
   sureties, each surety submits to the jurisdiction of the district court
   and irrevocably appoints the district clerk as the surety's agent on
   whom any papers affecting the surety's liability on the bond or
   undertaking may be served. On motion, a surety's liability may be
   enforced in the district court without the necessity of an independent
   action. The motion and any notice that the district court prescribes
   may be served on the district clerk, who must promptly mail a copy to
   each surety whose address is known.

   (c)Stay in a Criminal Case. Rule 38 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
   Procedure governs a stay in a criminal case.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 8

   Procedures in Death Penalty Cases Involving Applications for Immediate
   Stay of Execution and Appeals in Matters in Which the District Court
   Has

   Either Entered or Refused To Enter a Stay8.1 Documents Required.
   Non-death penalty cases will be handled as described in Fed. R. App. P.
   8. Death penalty cases arising from actions brought under 28 U.S.C. §§
   2254 and 2255 will be processed under the procedures found in this
   rule. The appellant must file 4 copies of the motion for stay and
   attach, to each, legible copies of the documents listed below. If the
   appellant asserts there is insufficient time to file a written motion,
   the appellant must deliver to the clerk 4 legible copies of each of the
   listed documents as soon as possible. If the appellant cannot attach or
   deliver any listed document, a statement why it cannot be provided must
   be substituted. The documents required are:

   (a) The complaint or petition to the district court;

   (b) Each brief or memorandum of authorities filed by both parties in
   the district court;

   (c) The opinion giving the district court's reasons for denying relief;

   (d) The district court judgment denying relief;

   (e) The application to the district court for a stay;

   (f) The district court order granting or denying a stay, and the
   statement of reasons for its action;

   (g) The certificate of appealability or, if there is none, the order
   denying a certificate of appealability;

   (h) A copy of each state or federal court opinion or judgment involving
   any issue presented to this court or, if the ruling was not made in a
   written opinion or judgment, a copy of the relevant portions of the
   transcript.

   8.1.1 If the state indicates that it does not oppose the stay, and the
   applicant states this fact in the application, these documents do not
   need to be filed with the application but must be filed within 10 days
   after the application is filed.

   8.1.2 If the appellant raises an issue that was not raised before the
   district court or has not been exhausted in state court, the applicant
   must give the reasons why prior action was not taken and why a stay
   should be granted.

   8.2 Panels. Death penalty case matters are handled by special panels
   selected in rotation from the court's regular screening panels. See 5th
   Cir. R. 27.2.3 for handling applications for certificates of
   appealability.

   8.3 Motions To Vacate Stays. If the district court enters an order
   staying execution of a judgment, the party seeking to vacate the stay
   will attach 4 copies of each of the documents required by 5th Cir. R.
   8.1 to the motion.

   8.4 Emergency Motions. Emergency motions or applications, whether
   addressed to the court or to an individual judge, must be filed with
   the clerk rather than with an individual judge. If there is
   insufficient time to file a motion or application in person, by mail,
   or by fax, counsel may communicate with the clerk by telephone and
   thereafter must file the motion in writing with the clerk as soon as
   possible. The motion, application, or oral communication must contain a
   brief account of the prior actions of this or any other court or judge
   to which the motion or application, or a substantially similar or
   related petition for relief, was submitted.

   8.5 Merits. The parties must address the merits of each issue presented
   by an application. The panel may allow additional time to permit the
   parties adequate opportunity to do so.

   8.6 Consideration of Merits. If a certificate of appealability has been
   granted, the panel assigned to decide a motion for a stay of a state
   court judgment must, before denying a stay, consider and expressly rule
   on the merits of the appeal, unless the panel finds that the appeal is
   frivolous and entirely without merit.

   8.7 Vacating Stays. The panel assigned to an appeal must consider the
   merits before vacating a stay of execution, unless the panel rules the
   appeal is frivolous and entirely without merit.

   8.8 Mandate. The panel may order the mandate issued instantly or after
   such time as it may fix.

   8.9 Stays of Execution Following Decision. Stays to permit the filing
   and consideration of a petition for a writ of certiorari ordinarily
   will not be granted. The court must determine whether there is a
   reasonable probability that 4 members of the Supreme Court would
   consider the underlying issues sufficiently meritorious for the grant
   of certiorari and whether there is a substantial possibility of
   reversal of its decision, in addition to a likelihood that irreparable
   harm will result if its decision is not stayed.

   8.10 Time Requirements for Habeas Petitions. Habeas petitioners
   sentenced to death who wish to appeal an adverse judgment by the
   district court on a first petition for writ of habeas corpus, or who
   seek permission to file a successive petition, must exercise reasonable
   diligence in moving for a certificate of appealability or for
   permission to file a second or successive habeas petition, and a stay
   of execution with the clerk of this court at least 5 days (exclusive of
   Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) before the scheduled execution.
   Counsel who seek a certificate of appealability or permission to file a
   successive petition less than 5 days before the scheduled execution
   must attach to the proposed filing a detailed explanation stating under
   oath the reason for the delay. If the motions are filed less than 5
   days before the scheduled execution, the court may direct counsel to
   show good cause for the late filing. If counsel cannot do so, counsel
   will be subject to sanctions.

   If the state asks this court to vacate a district court order staying
   an execution, counsel for the state will file the state's appeal and
   application for relief from the stay as soon as practicable after the
   district court issues its order. Any unjustified delay by the state's
   counsel in seeking relief in this court will subject counsel to
   sanctions.

   FRAP 9. RELEASE IN A CRIMINAL CASE

   (a) Release Before Judgment of Conviction.

   (1) The district court must state in writing, or orally on the record,
   the reasons for an order regarding the release or detention of a
   defendant in a criminal case. A party appealing from the order must
   file with the court of appeals a copy of the district court's order and
   the court's statement of reasons as soon as practicable after filing
   the notice of appeal. An appellant who questions the factual basis for
   the district court's order must file a transcript of the release
   proceedings or an explanation of why a transcript was not obtained.

   (2) After reasonable notice to the appellee, the court of appeals must
   promptly determine the appeal on the basis of the papers, affidavits,
   and parts of the record that the parties present or the court requires.
   Unless the court so orders, briefs need not be filed.

   (3) The court of appeals or one of its judges may order the defendant's
   release pending the disposition of the appeal.

   (b) Release After Judgment of Conviction. A party entitled to do so may
   obtain review of a district-court order regarding release after a
   judgment of conviction by filing a notice of appeal from that order in
   the district court, or by filing a motion in the court of appeals if
   the party has already filed a notice of appeal from the judgment of
   conviction. Both the order and the review are subject to Rule 9(a). The
   papers filed by the party seeking review must include a copy of the
   judgment of conviction.

   (c) Criteria for Release. The court must make its decision regarding
   release in accordance with the applicable provisions of 18 U.S.C.
   §§ 3142, 3143, and 3145(c).

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 9

   9.1 Release Before Judgment of Conviction. The clerk's office will
   advise counsel of the requirements of this rule after receiving a copy
   of a notice of appeal from the district court from an order respecting
   release entered prior to a judgment of conviction (Fed. R. App. P.
   9(a)), or on counsel's advice a notice of appeal has been or will be
   filed.

   Four copies of a memorandum must be filed within 7 days of the filing
   of the notice of appeal, clearly setting out the nature and
   circumstances of the offense charged and why the order respecting
   release is unsupported by the district court proceedings.

   9.2 Release After Judgment of Conviction. The original and 3 copies of
   an application regarding release pending appeal from a judgment of
   conviction (Fed. R. App. P. 9(b)) must be filed with the clerk of this
   court.

   (a) The application for release must contain:

   (1) The appellant's name;

   (2) The district court docket number;

   (3) The offense of which appellant was convicted; and

   (4) The date and terms of sentence.

   (b) The application must also contain:

   (1) The legal basis for the contention that appellant is unlikely to
   flee or pose a danger to the safety of any other person or the
   community;

   (2) An explanation why the district court's findings are clearly
   erroneous; and

   (3) The issues to be raised on appeal that present substantial
   questions of law or fact likely to result in reversal or an order for a
   new trial on all counts of the indictment on which incarceration has
   been imposed, with pertinent legal argument establishing that the
   questions are substantial.

   9.3 Required Documents. A copy of the district court's order respecting
   release pending trial or appeal, containing the written reasons for its
   ruling, must be appended to the memorandum or the application filed
   under 5th Cir. R. 9.1 or 9.2.

   (a) If the appellant questions the factual basis of the order, a
   transcript of the district court proceedings on the motion for release
   must be filed with this court. If the transcript is not filed with the
   memorandum or application, the appellant must attach a court reporter's
   certificate verifying that the transcript has been ordered and that
   satisfactory financial arrangements have been made to pay for it,
   together with the transcript's estimated date of completion.

   (b) If the appellant cannot obtain a transcript of the proceedings, the
   appellant must state in an affidavit the reasons why not.

   9.4 Service. A copy of the memorandum or application filed under 5th
   Cir. R. 9.1 or 9.2 must be hand-delivered to government counsel or
   served by other expeditious method.

   9.5 Response. The opposing party must file a written response to all
   requests for release within 7 calendar days after service of the
   memorandum or application.

   FRAP 10. THE RECORD ON APPEAL

   (a) Composition of the Record on Appeal. The following items constitute
   the record on appeal:

   (1) the original papers and exhibits filed in the district court;

   (2) the transcript of proceedings, if any; and

   (3) a certified copy of the docket entries prepared by the district
   clerk.

   (b) The Transcript of Proceedings.

   (1) Appellant's Duty to Order. Within 10 days after filing the notice
   of appeal or entry of an order disposing of the last timely remaining
   motion of a type specified in Rule 4(a)(4)(A), whichever is later, the
   appellant must do either of the following:

   (A) order from the reporter a transcript of such parts of the
   proceedings not already on file as the appellant considers necessary,
   subject to a local rule of the court of appeals and with the following
   qualifications:

   (i) the order must be in writing;

   (ii) if the cost of the transcript is to be paid by the United States
   under the Criminal Justice Act, the order must so state; and

   (iii) the appellant must, within the same period, file a copy of the
   order with the district clerk; or

   (B) file a certificate stating that no transcript will be ordered.

   (2) Unsupported Finding or Conclusion. If the appellant intends to urge
   on appeal that a finding or conclusion is unsupported by the evidence
   or is contrary to the evidence, the appellant must include in the
   record a transcript of all evidence relevant to that finding or
   conclusion.

   (3) Partial Transcript. Unless the entire transcript is ordered:

   (A) the appellant must -- within the 10 days provided in Rule
   10(b)(1) -- file a statement of the issues that the appellant intends
   to present on the appeal and must serve on the appellee a copy of both
   the order or certificate and the statement;

   (B) if the appellee considers it necessary to have a transcript of
   other parts of the proceedings, the appellee must, within 10 days after
   the service of the order or certificate and the statement of the
   issues, file and serve on the appellant a designation of additional
   parts to be ordered; and

   (C) unless within 10 days after service of that designation the
   appellant has ordered all such parts, and has so notified the appellee,
   the appellee may within the following 10 days either order the parts or
   move in the district court for an order requiring the appellant to do
   so.

   (4) Payment. At the time of ordering, a party must make satisfactory
   arrangements with the reporter for paying the cost of the transcript.

   (c) Statement of the Evidence When the Proceedings Were Not Recorded or
   When a Transcript Is Unavailable. If the transcript of a hearing or
   trial is unavailable, the appellant may prepare a statement of the
   evidence or proceedings from the best available means, including the
   appellant's recollection. The statement must be served on the appellee,
   who may serve objections or proposed amendments within 10 days after
   being served. The statement and any objections or proposed amendments
   must then be submitted to the district court for settlement and
   approval. As settled and approved, the statement must be included by
   the district clerk in the record on appeal.

   (d) Agreed Statement as the Record on Appeal. In place of the record on
   appeal as defined in Rule 10(a), the parties may prepare, sign, and
   submit to the district court a statement of the case showing how the
   issues presented by the appeal arose and were decided in the district
   court. The statement must set forth only those facts averred and proved
   or sought to be proved that are essential to the court's resolution of
   the issues. If the statement is truthful, it -- together with any
   additions that the district court may consider necessary to a full
   presentation of the issues on appeal -- must be approved by the
   district court and must then be certified to the court of appeals as
   the record on appeal. The district clerk must then send it to the
   circuit clerk within the time provided by Rule 11. A copy of the agreed
   statement may be filed in place of the appendix required by Rule 30.

   (e) Correction or Modification of the Record.

   (1) If any difference arises about whether the record truly discloses
   what occurred in the district court, the difference must be submitted
   to and settled by that court and the record conformed accordingly.

   (2) If anything material to either party is omitted from or misstated
   in the record by error or accident, the omission or misstatement may be
   corrected and a supplemental record may be certified and forwarded:

   (A) on stipulation of the parties;

   (B) by the district court before or after the record has been
   forwarded; or

   (C) by the court of appeals.

   (3) All other questions as to the form and content of the record must
   be presented to the court of appeals.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 10

   10.1 Appellant's Duty to Order the Transcript. The appellant's order of
   the transcript of proceedings, or parts thereof, contemplated by Fed.
   R. App. P. 10(b), must be on a form prescribed by the clerk. Counsel
   will furnish a copy of the order form to the clerk and to the other
   parties set out in Fed. R. App. P. 10(b). If no transcript needs to be
   ordered, appellant must file with the clerk a copy of a certificate to
   that effect that counsel served on the parties under Fed. R. App. P.
   10(b).

   10.2 Form of Record. The record on appeal must be bound in a manner
   that facilitates reading. The district court clerk must number the
   pages consecutively.

   I.O.P. - The district court will furnish a transcript order form,
   required by this court, when the notice of appeal is filed. Once
   counsel completes the transcript order, forwards it to the reporter,
   and makes adequate financial arrangements, counsel's responsibility
   under Fed. R. App. P. 10 and 11 is fulfilled.

   FRAP 11. FORWARDING THE RECORD

   (a) Appellant's Duty. An appellant filing a notice of appeal must
   comply with Rule 10(b) and must do whatever else is necessary to enable
   the clerk to assemble and forward the record. If there are multiple
   appeals from a judgment or order, the clerk must forward a single
   record.

   (b) Duties of Reporter and District Clerk.

   (1) Reporter's Duty to Prepare and File a Transcript. The reporter must
   prepare and file a transcript as follows:

   (A) Upon receiving an order for a transcript, the reporter must enter
   at the foot of the order the date of its receipt and the expected
   completion date and send a copy, so endorsed, to the circuit clerk.

   (B) If the transcript cannot be completed within 30 days of the
   reporter's receipt of the order, the reporter may request the circuit
   clerk to grant additional time to complete it. The clerk must note on
   the docket the action taken and notify the parties.

   (C) When a transcript is complete, the reporter must file it with the
   district clerk and notify the circuit clerk of the filing.

   (D) If the reporter fails to file the transcript on time, the circuit
   clerk must notify the district judge and do whatever else the court of
   appeals directs.

   (2) District Clerk's Duty to Forward. When the record is complete, the
   district clerk must number the documents constituting the record and
   send them promptly to the circuit clerk together with a list of the
   documents correspondingly numbered and reasonably identified. Unless
   directed to do so by a party or the circuit clerk, the district clerk
   will not send to the court of appeals documents of unusual bulk or
   weight, physical exhibits other than documents, or other parts of the
   record designated for omission by local rule of the court of appeals.
   If the exhibits are unusually bulky or heavy, a party must arrange with
   the clerks in advance for their transportation and receipt.

   (c) Retaining the Record Temporarily in the District Court for Use in
   Preparing the Appeal. The parties may stipulate, or the district court
   on motion may order, that the district clerk retain the record
   temporarily for the parties to use in preparing the papers on appeal.
   In that event the district clerk must certify to the circuit clerk that
   the record on appeal is complete. Upon receipt of the appellee's brief,
   or earlier if the court orders or the parties agree, the appellant must
   request the district clerk to forward the record.

   (d) [Abrogated.]

   (e) Retaining the Record by Court Order.

   (1) The court of appeals may, by order or local rule, provide that a
   certified copy of the docket entries be forwarded instead of the entire
   record. But a party may at any time during the appeal request that
   designated parts of the record be forwarded.

   (2) The district court may order the record or some part of it retained
   if the court needs it while the appeal is pending, subject, however, to
   call by the court of appeals.

   (3) If part or all of the record is ordered retained, the district
   clerk must send to the court of appeals a copy of the order and the
   docket entries together with the parts of the original record allowed
   by the district court and copies of any parts of the record designated
   by the parties.

   (f) Retaining Parts of the Record in the District Court by Stipulation
   of the Parties. The parties may agree by written stipulation filed in
   the district court that designated parts of the record be retained in
   the district court subject to call by the court of appeals or request
   by a party. The parts of the record so designated remain a part of the
   record on appeal.

   (g) Record for a Preliminary Motion in the Court of Appeals. If, before
   the record is forwarded, a party makes any of the following motions in
   the court of appeals:

   • for dismissal;
   • or release;
   • for a stay pending appeal;
   • for additional security on the bond on appeal or on a supersedeas
   bond; or
   • for any other intermediate order - the district clerk must send the
   court of appeals any parts of the record designated by any party.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 11

   11.1 Duties of Court Reporters. In all cases where transcripts are
   ordered, the court reporter must use a form provided by the clerk of
   this court and:
     * Acknowledge receiving the transcript order, and indicate the date
       of receipt;
     * State whether adequate financial arrangements have been made under
       the CJA, or otherwise;
     * Provide the number of trial or hearing days involved in the
       transcript, and estimate the total number of pages;
     * Give an estimated date when the transcript will be finished; and

   (e) Certify that he or she expects to file the transcript with the
   district court clerk within the time estimated.

   11.2 Requests for Extensions of Time. Court reporters seeking
   extensions of the time for filing the transcript beyond the 30 day
   period fixed by Fed. R. App. P. 11(b) must file an extension request
   with the clerk of this court and must specify in detail:

     (a) The amount of work accomplished on the transcript;

     (b) A list of all outstanding transcripts due to this and other
     courts, including the due dates for filing; and

     (c) A verification that the trial court judge who tried the case is
     aware of and approves the extension request.

   If a court reporters request for an extension of time is granted, he or
   she must promptly notify all counsel or unrepresented parties of the
   extended filing date and send a copy of the notification to this court.

   11.3 Duty of the Clerk. The district court clerk is responsible for
   determining when the record on appeal is complete for purposes of the
   appeal. Unless the record on appeal is sent to this court within 15
   days from the filing of the notice of appeal or 15 days after the
   filing of the transcript of any trial proceedings, whichever is later,
   the district court clerk must advise the clerk of this court of the
   reasons for delay and request an extension to file the record. The
   clerk of this court may grant an extension for no more than 45 days.
   Extensions beyond 45 days are referred to a single judge. When
   transmitting the record on appeal in a direct criminal appeal involving
   more than one defendant, the district court must separate and identify
   the pleadings and any transcripts of pre-trial, sentencing, and
   post-trial hearings that apply to fewer than all of the defendants.
   However, only one copy of the trial transcript is required. In an
   action involving more than one defendant at trial but where separate
   actions are filed under 28 U.S.C. § 2255, the district court must
   separate and identify the pleadings and transcripts of pre-trial,
   sentencing, and post-trial hearings that apply to less than all of the
   defendants. One copy of the trial transcript is required for each
   defendant filing a separate § 2255 action.

   I.O.P. - The clerk will monitor all outstanding transcripts and
   delays.

   On October 11, 1982, the Fifth Circuit Judicial Council adopted a
   resolution requiring each district court in the Fifth Circuit to
   develop a court reporter management plan providing for the day-to-day
   management and supervision of an efficient court reporting service
   within the district court. These plans must provide for the supervision
   of court reporters in their relations with litigants as specified in
   the Court Reporter Act, including fees charged for transcripts,
   adherence to transcript format prescriptions, and delivery schedules.
   The plans must also provide that a judge, the clerk, or some other
   person designated by the court supervises the court reporters.

   FRAP 12. DOCKETING THE APPEAL; FILING A REPRESENTATION STATEMENT;
   FILING THE RECORD

   (a) Docketing the Appeal. Upon receiving the copy of the notice of
   appeal and the docket entries from the district clerk under Rule 3(d),
   the circuit clerk must docket the appeal under the title of the
   district-court action and must identify the appellant, adding the
   appellant's name if necessary.

   (b) Filing a Representation Statement. Unless the court of appeals
   designates another time, the attorney who filed the notice of appeal
   must, within 10 days after filing the notice, file a statement with the
   circuit clerk naming the parties that the attorney represents on
   appeal.

   (c) Filing the Record, Partial Record, or Certificate. Upon receiving
   the record, partial record, or district clerk's certificate as provided
   in Rule 11, the circuit clerk must file it and immediately notify all
   parties of the filing date.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 12

   Counsel can satisfy the "representation statement" required by Fed. R.
   App. P. 12(b) by completing this court's "Notice of Appearance Form"
   and returning it to the clerk within 30 days of filing the notice of
   appeal.


       TITLE III. REVIEW OF A DECISION OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT

   FRAP 13. REVIEW OF A DECISION OF THE TAX COURT

   (a) How Obtained; Time for Filing Notice of Appeal.

   (1) Review of a decision of the United States Tax Court is commenced by
   filing a notice of appeal with the Tax Court clerk within 90 days after
   the entry of the Tax Court's decision. At the time of filing, the
   appellant must furnish the clerk with enough copies of the notice to
   enable the clerk to comply with Rule 3(d). If one party files a timely
   notice of appeal, any other party may file a notice of appeal within
   120 days after the Tax Court's decision is entered.

   (2) If, under Tax Court rules, a party makes a timely motion to vacate
   or revise the Tax Court's decision, the time to file a notice of appeal
   runs from the entry of the order disposing of the motion or from the
   entry of a new decision, whichever is later.

   (b) Notice of Appeal; How Filed. The notice of appeal may be filed
   either at the Tax Court clerk's office in the District of Columbia or
   by mail addressed to the clerk. If sent by mail the notice is
   considered filed on the postmark date, subject to § 7502 of the
   Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the applicable regulations.

   (c) Contents of the Notice of Appeal; Service; Effect of Filing and
   Service. Rule 3 prescribes the contents of a notice of appeal, the
   manner of service, and the effect of its filing and service. Form 2 in
   the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a notice of appeal.

   (d) The Record on Appeal; Forwarding; Filing.

   (1) An appeal from the Tax Court is governed by the parts of Rules 10,
   11, and 12 regarding the record on appeal from a district court, the
   time and manner of forwarding and filing, and the docketing in the
   court of appeals. References in those rules and in Rule 3 to the
   district court and district clerk are to be read as referring to the
   Tax Court and its clerk.

   (2) If an appeal from a Tax Court decision is taken to more than one
   court of appeals, the original record must be sent to the court named
   in the first notice of appeal filed. In an appeal to any other court of
   appeals, the appellant must apply to that other court to make provision
   for the record.

   FRAP 14. APPLICABILITY OF OTHER RULES TO THE REVIEW OF A TAX COURT
   DECISION

   All provisions of these rules, except Rules 4-9, 15-20, and 22-23,
   apply to the review of a Tax Court decision.


              TITLE IV. REVIEW OR ENFORCEMENT OF AN ORDER OF AN

            ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY, BOARD, COMMISSION, OR OFFICER

   FRAP 15. REVIEW OR ENFORCEMENT OF AN AGENCY ORDER -- HOW OBTAINED;
   INTERVENTION

   (a) Petition for Review; Joint Petition.

   (1) Review of an agency order is commenced by filing, within the time
   prescribed by law, a petition for review with the clerk of a court of
   appeals authorized to review the agency order. If their interests make
   joinder practicable, two or more persons may join in a petition to the
   same court to review the same order.

   (2) The petition must:

   (A) name each party seeking review either in the caption or the body of
   the petition -- using such terms as "et al.," "petitioners," or
   "respondents" does not effectively name the parties;

   (B) name the agency as a respondent (even though not named in the
   petition, the United States is a respondent if required by statute);
   and

   (C) specify the order or part thereof to be reviewed.

   (3) Form 3 in the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a petition
   for review.

   (4) In this rule "agency" includes an agency, board, commission, or
   officer; "petition for review" includes a petition to enjoin, suspend,
   modify, or otherwise review, or a notice of appeal, whichever form is
   indicated by the applicable statute.

   (b) Application or Cross-Application to Enforce an Order; Answer;
   Default.

   (1) An application to enforce an agency order must be filed with the
   clerk of a court of appeals authorized to enforce the order. If a
   petition is filed to review an agency order that the court may enforce,
   a party opposing the petition may file a cross-application for
   enforcement.

   (2) Within 20 days after the application for enforcement is filed, the
   respondent must serve on the applicant an answer to the application and
   file it with the clerk. If the respondent fails to answer in time, the
   court will enter judgment for the relief requested.

   (3) The application must contain a concise statement of the proceedings
   in which the order was entered, the facts upon which venue is based,
   and the relief requested.

   (c) Service of the Petition or Application. The circuit clerk must
   serve a copy of the petition for review, or an application or
   cross-application to enforce an agency order, on each respondent as
   prescribed by Rule 3(d), unless a different manner of service is
   prescribed by statute. At the time of filing, the petitioner must:

   (1) serve, or have served, a copy on each party admitted to participate
   in the agency proceedings, except for the respondents;

   (2) file with the clerk a list of those so served; and

   (3) give the clerk enough copies of the petition or application to
   serve each respondent.

   (d) Intervention. Unless a statute provides another method, a person
   who wants to intervene in a proceeding under this rule must file a
   motion for leave to intervene with the circuit clerk and serve a copy
   on all parties. The motion -- or other notice of intervention
   authorized by statute -- must be filed within 30 days after the
   petition for review is filed and must contain a concise statement of
   the interest of the moving party and the grounds for intervention.

   (e) Payment of Fees. When filing any separate or joint petition for
   review in a court of appeals, the petitioner must pay the circuit clerk
   all required fees.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 15

   15.1 Docketing Fee - Agency Review Proceedings. Parties filing a
   petition for review under Fed. R. App. P. 15 must pay the filing fee to
   the clerk at the time they file the petition for review.

   15.2 Proceedings for Enforcement of Orders of the National Labor
   Relations Board. In National Labor Relations Board enforcement
   proceedings under Fed. R. App. P. 15(b), the respondent is considered
   the petitioner, and the board the respondent, for briefing and oral
   argument purposes, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

   15.3 Proceedings for Review of Orders of the Federal Energy Regulatory
   Commission.

   15.3.1 Petition for Review. Every petition for review must specify in
   its caption the number, date, and identification of the order reviewed
   and append the service list required by Fed. R. App. P. 15(c). Counsel
   filing the petition must attach a certificate that the commission has
   posted, filed or entered the order being reviewed.

   15.3.2 Docketing. All petitions for review and other documents
   concerning commission orders in the same number series (i.e., 699,
   699A, 699B) are assigned to the same docket.

   15.3.3 Intervention.

   (a) Party. A party to a commission proceeding may intervene in a review
   of the proceeding in this court by filing a notice of intervention. The
   notice must state whether the intervenor is a petitioner who objects to
   the order or a respondent who supports the order. A notice of
   intervention confers petitioner or respondent status on the intervening
   party as to all proceedings.

   (b) Nonparty. A person who is not a party to a commission proceeding
   desiring to intervene in a review of that proceeding must file with the
   clerk, and serve upon all parties to the proceeding, a motion for leave
   to intervene. The motion must contain a concise statement of the moving
   party's interest, the grounds upon which intervention is sought, and
   why the interest asserted is not adequately protected by existing
   parties. Oppositions to such motions must be filed within 10 days of
   service.

   15.3.4 Docketing Statement. All parties filing petitions for review
   must file a joint docketing statement within 30 days of the filing of
   the initial petition for review, but not later than 10 days after the
   expiration of the period permitted for filing a petition for review.
   The docketing statement must:

   (a) List each issue to be raised in the review;

   (b) List any other pending review proceeding of the same order in any
   other court; and

   (c) Attach copies of the order to be reviewed.

   Every petitioner filing for review after filing a docketing statement
   must specify in the petition for review any exceptions taken or
   additions to the issues listed in the docketing statement. Every party
   who intervenes after the filing of the docketing statement must specify
   in the notice of intervention any exceptions taken to the issues listed
   in the docketing statement.

   15.3.5 Prehearing Conference. The clerk may give notice of a prehearing
   conference 10 days after filing of a docketing statement, or 10 days
   after entry of an order by the court deciding a venue issue, whichever
   is later. The prehearing conference will:

   (a) Simplify and define issues;

   (b) Agree on an appendix and record;

   (c) Assign joint briefing responsibilities and schedule briefs; and

   (d) Resolve any other matters aiding in the disposition of the
   proceeding.

   Except for good cause, any party who petitions for review or intervenes
   after prehearing conference has been held is bound by the result of the
   prehearing conference.

   15.3.6 Severance. Any petitioner or respondent may move to sever
   parties or issues by showing prejudice.

   15.4 Proceedings for Review of Orders of the Benefits Review Board. In
   petitions filed by either the claimant or the employer under 33 U.S.C.
   § 921 to review orders of the Benefits Review Board, the Office of
   Workers Compensation of the United States Department of Labor, the
   nominal respondent, is aligned with the claimant for briefing and oral
   argument purposes, unless otherwise ordered by the court. Within 30
   days of the filing of the petition for review of the board's decision,
   the petitioner must file a statement of the issues to be presented on
   appeal and serve them on the director and counsel for all parties so
   the appropriate alignment can be made.

   15.5 Time for Filing Motion for Intervention. A motion to intervene
   under Fed. R. App. P. 15(d) should be filed promptly after the petition
   for review of the agency proceeding is filed, but not later than 10
   days prior to the due date of the brief of the party supported by the
   intervenor.

   FRAP 15.1. BRIEFS AND ORAL ARGUMENT IN A NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
   PROCEEDING

   In either an enforcement or a review proceeding, a party adverse to the
   National Labor Relations Board proceeds first on briefing and at oral
   argument, unless the court orders otherwise.

   FRAP 16. THE RECORD ON REVIEW OR ENFORCEMENT

   (a) Composition of the Record. The record on review or enforcement of
   an agency order consists of:

   (1) the order involved;

   (2) any findings or report on which it is based; and

   (3) the pleadings, evidence, and other parts of the proceedings before
   the agency.

   (b) Omissions From or Misstatements in the Record. The parties may at
   any time, by stipulation, supply any omission from the record or
   correct a misstatement, or the court may so direct. If necessary, the
   court may direct that a supplemental record be prepared and filed.

   FRAP 17. FILING THE RECORD

   (a) Agency to File; Time for Filing; Notice of Filing. The agency must
   file the record with the circuit clerk within 40 days after being
   served with a petition for review, unless the statute authorizing
   review provides otherwise, or within 40 days after it files an
   application for enforcement unless the respondent fails to answer or
   the court orders otherwise. The court may shorten or extend the time to
   file the record. The clerk must notify all parties of the date when the
   record is filed.

   (b) Filing -- What Constitutes.

   (1) The agency must file:

   (A) the original or a certified copy of the entire record or parts
   designated by the parties; or

   (B) a certified list adequately describing all documents, transcripts
   of testimony, exhibits, and other material constituting the record, or
   describing those parts designated by the parties.

   (2) The parties may stipulate in writing that no record or certified
   list be filed. The date when the stipulation is filed with the circuit
   clerk is treated as the date when the record is filed.

   (3) The agency must retain any portion of the record not filed with the
   clerk. All parts of the record retained by the agency are a part of the
   record on review for all purposes and, if the court or a party so
   requests, must be sent to the court regardless of any prior
   stipulation.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 17

   Filing of the Record. Any agency failing to file the record within 40
   days, must request an extension of time and provide specific reasons
   justifying the delay. The clerk may grant an extension for no more than
   30 days. After such an extension expires, the court may order
   production of the record.

   FRAP 18. STAY PENDING REVIEW

   (a) Motion for a Stay.

   (1) Initial Motion Before the Agency. A petitioner must ordinarily move
   first before the agency for a stay pending review of its decision or
   order.

   (2) Motion in the Court of Appeals. A motion for a stay may be made to
   the court of appeals or one of its judges.

   (A) The motion must:

   (i) show that moving first before the agency would be impracticable; or

   (ii) state that, a motion having been made, the agency denied the
   motion or failed to afford the relief requested and state any reasons
   given by the agency for its action.

   (B) The motion must also include:

   (i) the reasons for granting the relief requested and the facts relied
   on;

   (ii) originals or copies of affidavits or other sworn statements
   supporting facts subject to dispute; and

   (iii) relevant parts of the record.

   (C) The moving party must give reasonable notice of the motion to all
   parties.

   (D) The motion must be filed with the circuit clerk and normally will
   be considered by a panel of the court. But in an exceptional case in
   which time requirements make that procedure impracticable, the motion
   may be made to and considered by a single judge.

   (b) Bond. The court may condition relief on the filing of a bond or
   other appropriate security.

   FRAP 19. SETTLEMENT OF A JUDGMENT ENFORCING AN AGENCY ORDER IN PART

   When the court files an opinion directing entry of judgment enforcing
   the agency's order in part, the agency must within 14 days file with
   the clerk and serve on each other party a proposed judgment conforming
   to the opinion. A party who disagrees with the agency's proposed
   judgment must within 7 days file with the clerk and serve the agency
   with a proposed judgment that the party believes conforms to the
   opinion. The court will settle the judgment and direct entry without
   further hearing or argument.

   FRAP 20. APPLICABILITY OF RULES TO THE REVIEW OR ENFORCEMENT OF AN
   AGENCY ORDER

   All provisions of these rules, except Rules 3-14 and 22-23, apply to
   the review or enforcement of an agency order. In these rules,
   "appellant" includes a petitioner or applicant, and "appellee" includes
   a respondent.


                        TITLE V. EXTRAORDINARY WRITS

   FRAP 21. WRITS OF MANDAMUS AND PROHIBITION, AND OTHER EXTRAORDINARY
   WRITS

   (a) Mandamus or Prohibition to a Court: Petition, Filing, Service, and
   Docketing.

   (1) A party petitioning for a writ of mandamus or prohibition directed
   to a court must file a petition with the circuit clerk with proof of
   service on all parties to the proceeding in the trial court. The party
   must also provide a copy to the trial-court judge. All parties to the
   proceeding in the trial court other than the petitioner are respondents
   for all purposes.

   (2) (A) The petition must be titled "In re [name of petitioner]."

   (B) The petition must state:

   (i) the relief sought;

   (ii) the issues presented;

   (iii) the facts necessary to understand the issue presented by the
   petition; and

   (iv) the reasons why the writ should issue.

   (C) The petition must include a copy of any order or opinion or parts
   of the record that may be essential to understand the matters set forth
   in the petition.

   (3) Upon receiving the prescribed docket fee, the clerk must docket the
   petition and submit it to the court.

   (b) Denial; Order Directing Answer; Briefs; Precedence.

   (1) The court may deny the petition without an answer. Otherwise, it
   must order the respondent, if any, to answer within a fixed time.

   (2) The clerk must serve the order to respond on all persons directed
   to respond.

   (3) Two or more respondents may answer jointly.

   (4) The court of appeals may invite or order the trial-court judge to
   address the petition or may invite an amicus curiae to do so. The
   trial-court judge may request permission to address the petition but
   may not do so unless invited or ordered to do so by the court of
   appeals.

   (5) If briefing or oral argument is required, the clerk must advise the
   parties, and when appropriate, the trial-court judge or amicus curiae.

   (6) The proceeding must be given preference over ordinary civil cases.

   (7) The circuit clerk must send a copy of the final disposition to the
   trial-court judge.

   (c) Other Extraordinary Writs. An application for an extraordinary writ
   other than one provided for in Rule 21(a) must be made by filing a
   petition with the circuit clerk with proof of service on the
   respondents. Proceedings on the application must conform, so far as is
   practicable, to the procedures prescribed in Rule 21(a) and (b).

   (d) Form of Papers; Number of Copies. All papers must conform to Rule
   32(a)(1). An original and 3 copies must be filed unless the court
   requires the filing of a different number by local rule or by order in
   a particular case.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 21

   Petition for Writ. The petition must contain a certificate of
   interested persons as described in 5th Cir. R. 28.2.1. The petition for
   writ must not exceed 20 pages and any answer to the petition must not
   exceed 10 pages. The certificate of interested persons, corporate
   disclosure statement and the items required by Fed. R. App. P. 21 and
   5th Cir. R. 21 do not count toward the page limit.

   In addition to the items required by Fed. R. App. P. 21, the
   application must contain a copy of any memorandum or brief filed in the
   district court supporting the application to that court for relief and
   any memoranda or briefs filed in opposition, as well as a transcript of
   any oral reasons the district judge gave for his or her action.


           TITLE VI. HABEAS CORPUS; PROCEEDINGS IN FORMA PAUPERIS

   FRAP 22. HABEAS CORPUS AND SECTION 2255 PROCEEDINGS

   (a) Application for the Original Writ. An application for a writ of
   habeas corpus must be made to the appropriate district court. If made
   to a circuit judge, the application must be transferred to the
   appropriate district court. If a district court denies an application
   made or transferred to it, renewal of the application before a circuit
   judge is not permitted. The applicant may, under 28 U.S.C. § 2253,
   appeal to the court of appeals from the district court's order denying
   the application.

   (b) Certificate of Appealability.

   (1) In a habeas corpus proceeding in which the detention complained of
   arises from process issued by a state court, or in a 28 U.S.C. § 2255
   proceeding, the applicant cannot take an appeal unless a circuit
   justice or a circuit or district judge issues a certificate of
   appealability under 28 U.S.C. § 2253(c). If an applicant files a notice
   of appeal, the district judge who rendered the judgment must either
   issue a certificate of appealability or state why a certificate should
   not issue. The district clerk must send the certificate or statement to
   the court of appeals with the notice of appeal and the file of the
   district-court proceedings. If the district judge has denied the
   certificate, the applicant may request a circuit judge to issue the
   certificate.

   (2) A request addressed to the court of appeals may be considered by a
   circuit judge or judges, as the court prescribes. If no express request
   for a certificate is filed, the notice of appeal constitutes a request
   addressed to the judges of the court of appeals.

   (3) A certificate of appealability is not required when a state or its
   representative or the United States or its representative appeals.

   FIFTH CIRCUIT RULE 22

   Applications for Certificates of Appealability and Motions for
   Permission to File Second or Successive Habeas Corpus Applications.
   Applications for certificates of appealability, motions for permission
   to file second or successive applications under 28 USC §§ 2254 and
   2255, and any responses must conform to the format requirements and the
   length limitations of Fed. R. App. P. 32(a), and 5th Cir. R. 32 as
   applicable.

   I.O.P. to Fed. R. App. P. 22 - See 5th Cir. R. 27.3 concerning
   emergency motions.

   FRAP 23. CUSTODY OR RELEASE OF A PRISONER IN A HABEAS CORPUS PROCEEDING

   (a) Transfer of Custody Pending Review. Pending review of a decision in
   a habeas corpus proceeding commenced before a court, justice, or judge
   of the United States for the release of a prisoner, the person having
   custody of the prisoner must not transfer custody to another unless a
   transfer is directed in accordance with this rule. When, upon
   application, a custodian shows the need for a transfer, the court,
   justice, or judge rendering the decision under review may authorize the
   transfer and substitute the successor custodian as a party.

   (b) Detention or Release Pending Review of Decision Not to Release.
   While a decision not to release a prisoner is under review, the court
   or judge rendering the decision, or the court of appeals, or the
   Supreme Court, or a judge or justice of either court, may order that
   the prisoner be:

   (1) detained in the custody from which release is sought;

   (2) detained in other appropriate custody; or

   (3) released on personal recognizance, with or without surety.

   (c) Release Pending Review of Decision Ordering Release. While a
   decision ordering the release of a prisoner is under review, the
   prisoner must -- unless the court or judge rendering the decision, or
   the court of appeals, or the Supreme Court, or a judge or justice of
   either court orders otherwise -- be released on personal recognizance,
   with or without surety.

   (d) Modification of the Initial Order on Custody. An initial order
   governing the prisoner's custody or release, including any recognizance
   or surety, continues in effect pending review unless for special
   reasons shown to the court of appeals or the Supreme Court, or to a
   judge or justice of either court, the order is modified or an
   independent order regarding custody, release, or surety is issued.

   I.O.P. to Fed. R. App. P. 23 - See 5th Cir. R. 9.2 for procedures
   governing applications for release.

   FRAP 24. PROCEEDING IN FORMA PAUPERIS

   (a) Leave to Proceed in Forma Pauperis.

   (1) Motion in the District Court. Except as stated in Rule 24(a)(3), a
   party to a district-court action who desires to appeal in forma
   pauperis must file a motion in the district court. The party must
   attach an affidavit that:

   (A) shows in the detail prescribed by Form 4 of the Appendix of Forms,
   the party's inability to pay or to give security for fees and costs;

   (B) claims an entitlement to redress; and

   (C) states the issues that the party intends to present on appeal.

   (2) Action on the Motion. If the district court grants the motion, the
   party may proceed on appeal without prepaying or giving security for
   fees and costs. If the district court denies the motion, it must state
   its reasons in writing.

   (3) Prior Approval. A party who was permitted to proceed in forma
   pauperis in the district-court action, or who was determined to be
   financially unable to obtain an adequate defense in a criminal case,
   may proceed on appeal in forma pauperis without further authorization,
   unless the district court -- before or after the notice of appeal is
   filed -- certifies that the appeal is not taken in good faith or finds
   that the party is not otherwise entitled to proceed in forma pauperis.
   In that event, the district court must state in writing its reasons for
   the certification or finding.

   (4) Notice of District Court's Denial. The district clerk must
   immediately notify the parties and the court of appeals when the
   district court does any of the following:

   (A) denies a motion to proceed on appeal in forma pauperis;

   (B) certifies that the appeal is not taken in good faith; or

   (C) finds that the party is not otherwise entitled to proceed in forma
   pauperis.

   (5) Motion in the Court of Appeals. A party may file a motion to
   proceed on appeal in forma pauperis in the court of appeals within 30
   days after service of the notice prescribed in Rule 24(a)(4). The
   motion must include a copy of the affidavit filed in the district court
   and the district court's statement of reasons for its action. If no
   affidavit was filed in the district court, the party must include the
   affidavit prescribed by Rule 24(a)(1).

   (b) Leave to Proceed in Forma Pauperis on Appeal or Review of an
   Administrative-Agency Proceeding. When an appeal or review of a
   proceeding before an administrative agency, board, commission, or
   officer (including for the purpose of this rule the United States Tax
   Court) proceeds directly in a court of appeals, a party may file in the
   court of appeals a motion for leave to proceed on appeal in forma
   pauperis with an affidavit prescribed by Rule 24(a)(1).

   (c) Leave to Use Original Record. A party allowed to proceed on appeal
   in forma pauperis may request that the appeal be heard on the original
   record without reproducing any part.


                        TITLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS

   FRAP 25. FILING AND SERVICE

   (a) Filing.

   (1) Filing with the Clerk. A paper required or permitted to be filed in
   a court of appeals must be filed with the clerk.

   (2) Filing: Method and Timeliness.

   (A) In general. Filing may be accomplished by mail addressed to the
   clerk, but filing is not timely unless the clerk receives the papers
   within the time fixed for filing.

   (B) A brief or appendix. A brief or appendix is timely filed, however,
   if on or before the last day for filing, it is:

   (i) mailed to the clerk by First-Class Mail, or other class of mail
   that is at least as expeditious, postage prepaid; or

   (ii) dispatched to a third-party commercial carrier for delivery to the
   clerk within 3 calendar days.

   (C) Inmate filing. A paper filed by an inmate confined in an
   institution is timely if deposited in the institution's internal
   mailing system on or before the last day for filing. If an institution
   has a system designed for legal mail, the inmate must use that system
   to receive the benefit of this rule. Timely filing may be shown by a
   declaration in compliance with 28 U.S.C. § 1746 or by a notarized
   statement, either of which must set forth the date of deposit and state
   that first-class postage has been prepaid.

   (D) Electronic filing. A court of appeals may by local rule permit
   papers to be filed, signed, or verified by electronic means that are
   consistent with technical standards, if any, that the Judicial
   Conference of the United States establishes. A paper filed by
   electronic means in compliance with a local rule constitutes a written
   paper for the purpose of applying these rules.

   (3) Filing a Motion with a Judge. If a motion requests relief that may
   be granted by a single judge, the judge may permit the motion to be
   filed with the judge; the judge must note the filing date on the motion
   and give it to the clerk.

   (4) Clerk's Refusal of Documents. The clerk must not refuse to accept
   for filing any paper presented for that purpose solely because it is
   not presented in proper form as required by these rules or by any local
   rule or practice.

   (b) Service of All Papers Required. Unless a rule requires service by
   the clerk, a party must, at or before the time of filing a paper, serve
   a copy on the other parties to the appeal or review. Service on a party
   represented by counsel must be made on the party's counsel.

   (c) Manner of Service. Service may be personal, by mail, or by
   third-party commercial carrier for delivery within 3 calendar days.
   When reasonable considering such factors as the immediacy of the relief
   sought, distance, and cost, service on a party must be by a manner at
   least as expeditious as the manner used to file the paper with the
   court. Per
