http://muller.lbl.gov/teaching/Physics10/pages01/TerrorismOver.html

                      The terrorist attacks are over...

   Can I be serious? With the government warning that new attacks are
   imminent, with the vulnerability of the US exposed for all the world to
   see, how can I be so optimistic? Well, maybe I am being unrealistic.
   But let me outline a scenario that strikes me as being closer to
   reality than anything you are hearing on the news, or from the
   government.

   Soon after Sept. 11, the US government said that it had "credible
   evidence" that a second wave of terrorist attacks was imminent. Most
   people have been waiting for it ever since. It appears to me that the
   second wave has already occurred: the anthrax letters. But -- people
   argue -- that could not have been it. Only three people have died (so
   far, as of Oct 26). That was tragic, but nothing like the 5000 killed
   on September 11. So the next attack must still be coming.

   I will argue that the anthrax letters represent a terrorist attack that
   basically failed. Yes, it killed three people. Yes, a couple of dozen
   more are infected, and expected to recover. Yes, it has caused a great
   deal of anxiety and worry. But I think the terrorists had every reason
   to expect that the attack would kill thousands, not just a few, and
   that the people killed would be among the most prominent and famous,
   and maybe even the most important people in the United States. If you
   had told them that they would kill a photo editor from the National
   Enquirer, and several postal workers, they would have looked for a
   different attack.

   I've been looking over the literature on the dangers of anthrax, the
   literature that was published prior to September 11. Everything I have
   found makes it look as if an anthrax attack was simple, foolproof, and
   devastating. For example, in December 1993, the Office of Technology
   Assessment published a report titled "Technologies Underlying Weapons
   of Mass Destruction." The entire report is still available on the web;
   here is the section (in pdf format) on Anthrax. If you read it, you'll
   see what the terrorists saw: that an anthrax attack looks easy, and
   devastating.

   So here is my scenario. Shortly after the airplane attacks, the
   terrorists saw that the international police cooperation was occurring
   much faster than they had expected. Many of their people were being
   arrested. They decided to launch their second wave immediately. It was
   designed to be so widespread and devastating that it would completely
   intimidate the world, and result in great pressure being brought on the
   US not to attack Afghanistan. Letters to Tom Brokaw and the New York
   Post were postmarked September 18. On September 21, a petrochemical
   plant in Toulouse France suffered an explosion that killed 29 people,
   injured several thousand, and destroyed numerous buildings. A warehouse
   that contained 300 tons of ammonium nitrate fertilizer is now a
   150-foot-wide crater, surrounded by debris. A tie to the U.S. attacks
   is suspected, but the evidence is all circumstantial. See the New York
   Times account. Other attacks were planned (e.g. an attack on the US
   embassy in Paris) but failed because of rapid police action.

   But the main assault was going to be anthrax. The lethal dose of
   anthrax is about one billionth of a gram! One gram could kill a billion
   people. How devastating would be a single gram placed in an envelope?
   Everyone in the building would die -- or at least that is what they
   probably expected. Maybe even the entire area would be contaminated.
   The first mailings appear to have been directed at newspapers and TV
   news personalities.

   To the surprise of the terrorists, the whole attack was almost
   unnoticed. In fact, it probably would have been completely missed if an
   alert doctor hadn't become suspicious of the death in Florida, and
   decide to investigate further. (The first diagnosis was not anthrax.
   That is too rare a disease for most doctors to be familiar with.) A
   suspicious letters arrived at NBC news, and so the police were called
   in. It turned out to be anthrax, but nobody was harmed. Slowly, a few
   people exposed (initially, to the Florida letter) got skin anthrax,
   which is easily treated.

   What had failed? Where were the thousands of dead bodies? The
   terrorists (who now feared for their lives, since the police roundup
   had begun) knew something was wrong. They guessed that they have
   overestimated the potency of the anthrax. The US bombing of Afghanistan
   began on October 7. Bin Laden released his famous tape of warning on
   Oct 8. The terrorists decided to send out a second set of mailings, and
   this time to their ultimate targets: the political leaders of the
   United States. They would not hold back -- they send the undiluted
   anthrax, all that they had, because that was the best (worse?) that
   they could do. On October 9 they mailed (along with others) a letter to
   Tom Daschle with undiluted anthrax. The letter arrived in Daschle's
   office on Oct 12, and was opened on Oct 15, after passing through the
   Brentwood Post Office. Other letters were sent to President Bush, to
   the CIA headquarters, and elsewhere. By Monday, October 22, two postal
   workers at Brentwood died, and others became ill.

   This all sounds pretty bad. So how can I be optimistic? I'm guessing
   that the terrorists used all their remaining anthrax when the first set
   of letters produced only one death. I'm guessing that they were
   desperate, since the police sweep had destroyed many of their cells
   (particularly abroad) and made further operations very dangerous. The
   letters to Daschle said, "We have this anthrax. You die now. Are you
   afraid?" Obviously they overestimated the potency of the letter.

   Will more people die? That is possible, particularly if they were
   exposed and don't know it. We may also discover additional people who
   died from anthrax in the last few weeks, but were misdiagnosed. We will
   probably find anthrax spores at other sites. But I am not worried about
   a new wave of anthrax attacks in the near future that will kill large
   numbers of people.

   A whole new wave of bioterrorism is possible, even likely, in the long
   run. It is only the short-run danger that has passed. What is the
   solution for the long run? We could sterilize our mail, or resort to
   email. But the real answer is international police work, with no
   sanctuaries allowed.
