http://www.dhs.ca.gov/home/policy/dhs-disclaimer.htm


   Image of State Bear California. . . The Golden State clearpixel.gif (67
   bytes) Link to the California Home Page Link to the Governor's Home
   Page


   top bar DHS Home Comments Organization Search top bar


   dhs-logo.gif (942 bytes)
   clearpixel.gif (67 bytes)

   clearpixel.gif (67 bytes) Department of Health Services: Privacy Policy
   and Terms of Use

   Terms of Use

   CONDITIONS FOR ACCESS AND USE

   Welcome to the Department of Health Services (DHS) Internet Site,
   herein after referred to as DHS Internet Site. All access to, and any
   use of, the DHS Internet Site and any Web page or Internet Site
   established by any of the Department's boards, bureaus, programs or
   divisions, is governed by the following disclaimers and limits on use.

   DISCLAIMER INFORMATION

   Disclaimer of Liability
   Neither the California DHS, the DHS Internet Site nor its contributors
   shall be held liable for any improper or incorrect use of the
   information described and/or contained herein and assumes no
   responsibility for anyone's use of the information. In no event shall
   the DHS, the DHS Internet Site or its contributors be liable for any
   direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential
   damages (including, but not limited to: procurement of substitute goods
   or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption)
   however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract,
   strict liability, tort (including negligence or otherwise), or any
   other theory arising in any way out of the use of this system, even if
   advised of the possibility of such damage. This disclaimer of liability
   applies to any damages or injury, whether based on alleged breach of
   contract, tortuous behavior, negligence or any other cause of action,
   including but not limited to damages or injuries caused by any failure
   of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay
   in operation or transmission, computer virus, communication line
   failure, and/or theft, destruction or unauthorized access to,
   alteration of, or use of any record.

   Indemnification
   User agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless, the DHS, the DHS
   Internet Site, its contributors, any entity jointly created by them,
   their respective affiliates and their respective directors, officers,
   employees, and agents from and against all claims and expenses,
   including attorneys' fees, arising out of the use of the on-line
   service by user or user's account.

   Disclaimer of Warranties/Accuracy and Use of Data/Computer Viruses
   Although the data found using the DHS Internet Site has been produced
   and processed from sources believed to be reliable, no warranty
   expressed or implied is made regarding accuracy, adequacy,
   completeness, legality, reliability or usefulness of any information.
   This disclaimer applies to both isolated and aggregate uses of the
   information. The DHS and the DHS Internet Site provide this information
   on an "AS IS" basis. All warranties of any kind, express or implied,
   including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability,
   fitness for a particular purpose, freedom from contamination by
   computer viruses and non-infringement of proprietary rights are
   disclaimed. Changes may be periodically added to the information
   herein; these changes may or may not be incorporated in any new version
   of the publication. If the user has obtained information from The DHS
   Internet Site from a source other than The DHS Internet Site, the user
   must be aware that electronic data can be altered subsequent to
   original distribution. Data can also quickly become out-of-date. It is
   recommended that the user pay careful attention to the contents of any
   metadata associated with a file, and that the originator of the data or
   information be contacted with any questions regarding appropriate use.
   If the user finds any errors or omissions, we encourage the user to
   report them to the DHS Internet Site Webmaster.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement
   The DHS and the DHS Internet Site are distributors of content sometimes
   supplied by third parties and users. Any opinions, advice, statements,
   services, offers, or other information or content expressed or made
   available by third parties, including information providers, users, or
   others, are those of the respective author(s) or distributor(s) and do
   not necessarily state or reflect those of the DHS.

   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
   constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the
   DHS or the DHS Internet Site, and such reference shall not be used for
   advertising or product endorsement purposes.

   Disclaimer for Hypertext Links
   Neither the DHS, the DHS Internet Site nor its contributors is
   responsible for the contents of any off-site pages that reference, or
   that are referenced by, the DHS Internet Site. The user specifically
   acknowledges that neither the DHS, the DHS Internet Site nor its
   contributors are liable for any defamatory, offensive, misleading or
   illegal conduct of other users, links, or third parties and that the
   risk of injury from the foregoing rests entirely with the user.

   Links from the DHS Internet Site on the World Wide Web to other sites,
   or from other sites to the DHS Internet Site, do not constitute an
   endorsement by the DHS or the DHS Internet Site. These links are for
   convenience only. It is the responsibility of the user to evaluate the
   content and usefulness of information obtained from other sites.

   Disclaimer of Duty to Continue Provision of the Data
   Due to the dynamic nature of the Internet, resources that are free and
   publicly available one day may require a fee or restrict access the
   next day, and the location of items may change as menus, homepages, and
   files are reorganized. The user expressly agrees that use of the DHS
   Internet Site is at the user's sole risk. Neither the DHS, the DHS
   Internet Site, any entity jointly created by them, any of their
   affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees,
   agents, third party content providers or licensers warrants that the
   service will be uninterrupted or error free.

   Choice of Law
   Construction of the disclaimers above and resolution of disputes
   thereof are governed by the laws of the State of California.

   Copying of Documents
   The DHS authorizes the user to copy , for non-commercial use only,
   documents published by the DHS on the World Wide Web. In consideration
   of this authorization, the user agrees that any copy of these documents
   which the user makes shall retain all copyright and other proprietary
   notices that may be contained therein.

   Each individual document published by the DHS on the World Wide Web may
   contain other proprietary notices and copyright information relating to
   that individual document. Nothing contained herein shall be construed
   as conferring by implication or otherwise any license or right under
   any patent or trademark of the DHS or any third party. Except as
   expressly provided above, nothing contained herein shall be construed
   as conferring any license or right under any DHS copyright.

   Although the DHS strives for accuracy in its publications, any
   publication may contain inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes,
   corrections and improvements may be made periodically to these
   publications, and will be incorporated in new versions of these
   publications. The DHS may make changes, corrections and/or improvements
   in its publications, and/or the products, programs or services
   described in those publications, at any time without notice.

   Unauthorized Use/Access
   This computing system is operated by the State of California and is for
   official use only. Unauthorized access, unauthorized attempted access,
   or unauthorized use of any State computing system is a violation of
   Section 502 of the California Penal Code and/or applicable federal law,
   and may be subject to prosecution.

   Individuals using this computing system without authority, or in excess
   of their authority, are subject to having their activities on this
   system monitored and recorded by system personnel. All http and ftp
   accesses are logged. In the course of such monitoring, or in the course
   of system maintenance or trouble shooting, the activities of authorized
   users also may be monitored.

   Anyone using this system expressly consents to such monitoring and is
   advised that if such monitoring reveals possible evidence of criminal
   activity, further legal action may be taken.


   Back to Top of Page
   Read Privacy Policy

   This page last updated on: Thursday, July 19, 2001
   The Terms of Use last updated on: Thursday, July 19,2001
       _______________________________________________________________

                 DHS Home | Comments | Organization | Search
    About DHS | Health Warnings | Health-Related Sites | Press Releases |
                 Privacy Policy & Terms of Use | What's New
