http://www.bt.cdc.gov/EpiSurv/index.asp

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Public Health/Bioterrorism Preparedness & Response
   Site-wide Links


                Department of Health and Human Services - USA
   Agents & Threats
   Biological (listing)
   Chemical (listing)
   Radiological Emergencies
   Site Topics
   Preparation & Planning
   Emergency Response
   Lab Information
   Surveillance
   Media & Press Center
   Training
   Resources/Links
   En Español
   Página Principal del Terrorismo Biológico
   Public Inquiries
   English (888) 246-2675
   Español (888) 246-2857
   Mon-Fri 8am-11pm EST
   Sat-Sun 10am-8pm EST
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   1600 Clifton Rd.
   Atlanta, GA 30333
   U.S.A
   (404) 639-3311
   FirstGov
   Lab & Health Professionals
   Surveillance

   Case Definitions

   • Anthrax
   • Botulism
   • Plague
   •

     Tularemia
   •

     Brucellosis
   Illness Recognition

   •

     Recognition of Illness Associated with the Intentional Release of a
     Biologic Agent
     MMWR. October 19, 2001;50(41):893-7.
     Provides guidance for healthcare providers and public health personnel
     about recognizing illnesses or patterns of illness that might be
     associated with intentional release of biologic agents.
   Surveillance Planning

   • General Health Surveillance and Epidemiologic Investigation
     Considerations.
     See Chapter 3. Planning assistance for state public health officials.
     Includes a portion of The Public Health Response to Biological and
     Chemical Terrorism: Interim Planning Guidance for State Public Health
     Officials
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (1.16 MB)
   Surveillance Systems

   • Enhanced Surveillance Project (ESP)
     Brief project description.
   • National Electronic Disease Surveillance System (NEDSS)
     Web site. Project description, draft standards, and documentation. From
     HISSB (Health Information and Surveillance Systems Board).

   Related Resources

   • See Media and Press Center for case updates and other
     incident-specific reporting.

   Top of Page

   PHEPR Home | Lab & Health Professionals | About | FAQ | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   In general all information presented in these pages and all items
   available for download are for public use. However, you may encounter
   some pages that require a login password and id. If this is the case
   you may assume that information presented and items available for
   download therein are for your authorized access only and not for
   redistribution by you unless you are otherwise informed.
   Content-related questions should be directed to: Content Administrator
   Site-related questions should be directed to: Webmaster
   This page last reviewed:
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
   ** Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 may be required for large documents**
