http://www.usaid-ph.gov/other%20activities_usaid.htm

                                 USAID Logo


   Security and Monitoring Statement Security and Monitoring Statement
   Search Links

                               Description Bar

                                Home
                                About USAID
                                Programs
                                Partners
                                Achievements
                                Key Documents
                                Sitemap


   Programs

   Other Activities

   In addition to the major programs discussed, USAID/Philippines is
   engaged in a variety of other activities including:
     * Civil society grants.  USAID has provided hundreds of millions $US
   to NGOs and civil society organizations in the Philippines.
   Current civil society grants support the effective participation of
   the disadvantaged in the policy arena through coalition-building,
   agenda formulation, and policy research and advocacy.

     * Humanitarian assistance.  In times of calamity, USAID provides
   short-term humanitarian assistance to the Philippines as well as
   other countries within the region.

     * Gender and development. USAID recognizes that effective development
   assistance strategies which stimulate economic growth, alleviate
   poverty, prevent environmental degradation, improve health and
   quality of life, and support human rights, must take into account
   the situation of women. USAID programs in the Philippines take into
   consideration how activities should be designed to ensure women's
   participation in all sectors.

     * Participant training.  USAID supports and funds training
   (in-country, to another country, or to the U.S.) for participants
   under specific areas of our programs.

   Last updated: January 2000

   Information


         Civil Society Grants

   Humanitarian Assistance
        Gender and Development
         Participant Training

                         Home >> Other Activities >>

                              Other Activities




                    Copyright © 2000 USAID/Philippines.
