http://www.coast2050.gov/watermarks/wrda.htm

                               [LAsmall3a.gif]

   [2050logo.jpg]
   [listtop.gif]

                           One Voice, One Mission



   Public Area
   Event Calendar
   Study Milestones
   Maps
   Reports
   Press Releases
   Survey
   Related Links
   Request Info
   Points of Contact
   LA Wetland Values
   [listbottom.GIF]
   [space.gif]

   [listtop.gif]
   Technical Area

                                (restricted)

   [listbottom.GIF]


   [left_tip.gif] WaterMarks [right_tip.gif]

   WaterMarks October 2001 Number 19
   Louisiana Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration News
   Special Issue: Louisiana Coastal Area Feasibility Study WaterMarks
   Cover
   PDF (1.2 MB)

     WRDA Funding | Barrier Shoreline Restoration | Wetlands Creation &
        Restoration | The Cost of Doing Nothing | Governor's Message

   WRDA Funding: A crucial Step in Saving Louisiana's Coast
   For nearly 70 years Louisianas complex system of coastal marshes,
   waterways, lakes and barrier islands has been radically changed by the
   influence of man and industry. While land subsidence and sea level rise
   have taken their toll, the development of oil and gas resources, the
   shipping industry and flood control levees have exacted a price as
   well. Alligator Countless channels and canals have been carved through
   protective reefs and deep into freshwater wetlands, redirecting flows
   and providing avenues for salt-bearing tides. Spoil banks and levees
   have isolated marshes from their natural supplies of fresh water,
   sediment and nutrients, causing vegetation to fail and exposing a
   weakened environment to erosion. As a result, this remarkable ecosystem
   is being converted to open water at the rate of 25 to 35 square miles a
   yearthe equivalent of a football field every 30 minutesputting southern
   Louisiana on track to lose 1,000 additional square miles of coastal
   wetlands by the year 2050.
 Shipping As disheartening as those figures are, the story of Louisianas
          disappearing coast goes beyond the loss of land. Its about an American
          environment thats vanishing at a catastrophic rate. Its about
          communities, industry, infrastructure, wildlife habitat, fisheries and
          economies at risk. And, most important, its about the loss of the
          national treasure found in coastal Louisianas unique culture.
          Faced with this grim reality, Congress responded in 1990 with the
          passage of the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration
          Act (CWPPRA). Over the next ten years, this crucial piece of
          legislation provided up to $53 million per year in federal funding to
          protect and restore coastal wetlands in Louisiana. More than 100
          projects of varying size were started or completed with others
          identified, evaluated and recommended for implementation. These
          projects are expected to protect 86,000 acres of wetlands in nine
          hydrologic regions across Louisianas coastal zone.

   Louisiana Coast at Risk With the CWPPRA effort well under way, private
   citizens, local governments, state and federal agency personnel and the
   scientific community began the massive task of developing a
   comprehensive, ecosystem-based plan to address coastal wetland loss
   throughout southern Louisiana. In December 1998, this group completed
   Coast 2050: Towards a Sustainable Coastal Louisiana, in which they
   referenced the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana (1998) in saying
   . . restoration requires a single coastal plan with a clear,
   overarching strategic vision; a process for ensuring effective public
   input to restoration planning; and integration of restoration projects
   into the overall coastal management system. Coast 2050 successfully
   achieved each of those objectives. From lessons and data gathered from
   CWPPRA, from new quantitative techniques for projecting land-loss
   patterns and the first coastwide assessment of subsidence rates, the
   plan outlined a conceptual framework that clearly articulates the
   future course of coastal restoration.
   It was, however, beyond the scope of Coast 2050 to produce the
   technical analysis to put projects on the ground. Consequently, the
   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Louisiana Department of Natural
   Resources began to develop the Louisiana Coastal Area Feasibility
   Study. This study, which will contain the engineering and technical
   work absent from Coast 2050, is a key step in securing funding under
   the Water Resources Development Act 2002 (WRDA)the nations single
   largest source of water-project dollars. Because WRDA is so crucial and
   the feasibility study plays such an important role in the funding
   justification, this special issue of WaterMarks will introduce and
   highlight some of its essential components.
   The Thrust of the Study
   As an integral step in the overall restoration plan, the Louisiana
   Coastal Area Feasibility Study takes into consideration the need to:

     Design restoration projects to mimic natural landforms and processes
     as closely as possible;

     Protect communities and infrastructures such as highways, pipelines,
     wells and ports;

     Proceed from the perimeter to the interior of a basin, building the
     framework for landforms that will facilitate interior restoration;

     Develop a computer model to give insight into water movements,
     allowing better project planning.

   Cypress Swamp Over the next 10 years, the Louisiana Coastal Area
   Feasibility Study will cover the nine Coastal Area Risk hydrologic
   basins that represent the Louisiana coast. The first phase of this
   coast-wide effort focuses on the Barataria Basin.
   The Barataria Basin was chosen as the starting point because it is
   experiencing the highest rate of land loss in the Louisiana coastal
   area estimated at 11 square miles per year. From 1932 to 1990, 35
   percent of its marsh was converted to open watera land loss approaching
   360,000 acres. A best estimate predicts that an additional 19 percent
   of the remaining marsh, including 32 percent of the saline marsh, will
   be lost by 2050. As the marshes vanish, the protective barrier islands
   on the basins coast are disappearing as wellsuccumbing to some of the
   highest shoreline erosion rates in the nation.
   It is expected that without increased restoration efforts, the barrier
   islands within the study area will be gone by 2050, and the headland
   will continue to retreat at an average rate of 44 feet per year.
   The Barataria study will develop project plans to restore the fringe of
   the basin and develop a hydrologic and hydrodynamic computer model that
   will enable a basinwide assessment of other ecosystem restoration
   strategies. The study is divided into three closely inter-related
   components:
   1) Barrier Shoreline Restoration,
   2) Wetlands Creation and Restoration and
   3) Hydrologic and Hydrodynamic Model Development.
   Public Meeting at the Corps of Engineers The first component, Barrier
   Shoreline Restoration, will develop projects that sustain the
   ecological attributes of the basin, including a unique arrangement of
   habitats such as shallow intertidal zones, beaches, dunes,
   back-marshes, bays and passes. The barrier shoreline is the first line
   of defense against the Gulf of Mexicos waves and salinity, providing
   protection to the remaining marsh and aquatic habitats behind the
   islands. The second component, Wetlands Creation and Restoration, will
   develop projects to create and restore the basins marshes on the
   southwestern fringe, as well as wooded stop-over habitat for
   neotropical migratory birds. The third component, Hydrologic Model
   Development, will build a basin-wide hydrologic and hydrodynamic
   computer model of the water circulation and salinity patterns within
   the entire basin. This model will be used as the operations and
   planning guide for both existing and future projects, and freshwater
   diversions.
   Scientists and engineers will learn a great deal during the first phase
   of their work in the Barataria Basin. For example, the hydrologic and
   hydrodynamic computer model will be used extensively as projects
   planned for the basin interior are evaluated, constructed and placed in
   operation. The model and the lessons learned will then be exported for
   use in other basins of the coastal zone.
   Public Involvement
   Consistent with the approach in developing the Coast 2050 Plan, public
   comment on the feasibility study has been instrumental in establishing
   concepts, goals and strategies. During the early stages of planning,
   project managers held a series of public meetings.

     In March and May 2000, the public was provided information and asked
     for general guidance during two informal meetings in Thibodaux.
     Additionally, two presentations made to the Barataria-Terrebonne
     National Estuary Program Management Conference were attended by many
     stakeholders from business and industry, federal and state agencies and
     nonprofit organizations.

     In June 2000, two formal public scoping meetings were held during the
     formation of the studys environmental impact statement for the Barrier
     Shoreline Restoration and Wetland Creation and Restoration components.
     Comments in these meetings formed the basis for much of the planning
     that guided development of the restoration measures.

     In February and March 2001, as restoration project plans were
     formulated, formal public meetings were held in Baton Rouge, Larose and
     Belle Chasse.

   Project managers provided information about study areas and objectives,
   and solicited information on alternate locations and methods. Two
   additional series of public meetings will be held. The first will seek
   comment before finalizing a recommended plan. The second will be held
   when the plan is completed, prior to its submission to Congress. For
   more information on the Feasibility Study, see www.coast2050.gov.

     WRDA Funding | Barrier Shoreline Restoration | Wetlands Creation &
        Restoration | The Cost of Doing Nothing | Governor's Message


                         [left_tip.gif] Project Components [right_tip.gif]

                       Click to see full size (190KB)
        Barrier Shoreline Restoration from Belle Pass to Sandy Point

                       Click to see full size (226KB)
                Wetland Creation in southwest Barataria Basin



                         Coast2050 Feasibility Study
     New Orleans District of the US Army Corps of Engineers   Louisiana
                       Department of Natural Resources
    Site Maintained by US Geological Survey - National Wetlands Research
                                   Center

     Please report problems with this site to coast2050@condor.nwrc.gov
