http://www.catc.ca.gov


         California Transportation Commission (CTC) California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                         CTC Home
                         CTC Commissioners
                         CTC Staff
                         Committees and Task Forces
                         Meetings and Events
                         Agendas and Minutes
                         Commission Reports
                         Archives





                                                               Contact CTC
                                                             1120 N Street
                                                         Room 2221 (MS-52)
                                                      Sacramento, CA 95814
                                                 Telephone: (916) 654-4245
                                                       FAX: (916) 653-2134
                                         Send Comments or Questions to the
                                                            CTC Web Master
                                                        Get Acrobat Reader
      You must have Adobe Acrobat Reader 4.0 (or higher) to view and print
   the PDF files on this site. For a FREE copy of Acrobat Reader, click on
                                                     "Get Acrobat Reader".


                 California Transportation Commission (CTC)

   California Transportation Commission Logo The California Transportation
   Commission (CTC) was established in 1978 by Assembly Bill 402 (Chapter
   1106, Statutes of 1977) out of a growing concern for a single, unified
   California transportation policy. The Commission replaced and assumed
   the responsibilites of four independent bodies: The California Highway
   Commission, the State Transportation Board, the State Aeronautics
   Board, and the California Toll Bridge Authority.

   The California Transportation Commission consists of nine members
   appointed by the Governor, all appointed to staggered four-year terms,
   and two non-voting ex-officio members, one from the State Senate and
   one from the State Assembly.

   The Commission is responsible for the programming and allocating of
   funds for the construction of highway, passenger rail and transit
   improvements throughout California. The Commission, also advises and
   assists the Secretary of Business, Transportation and Housing Agency
   and the Legislature in formulating and evaluating state policies and
   plans for Californias transportation programs. The Commission is also
   an active participant in the initiation and development of State and
   Federal legislation that seeks to secure financial stability for the
   States transportation needs.

   wedge more...

                                 HIGHLIGHTS

   Diane Eidam Diane Eidam Appointed as Executive Director of CTC
   On September 24, Chairman Allen Lawrence announced the appointment of
   Diane Eidam as Executive Director of the California Transportation
   Commission, effective October 1, 2001.
   Ms. Eidam comes to the position of the Commission's Executive Director
   with 22 years of experience with the State of California. She most
   recently has served as Deputy Director of the California Department of
   Transportation's District 3 and previously served as the Department's
   Deputy Director for Audits and Investigations.
   wedge more...
   Job Vacancies at CTC CTC Employment Opportunities
   There is currently one staff vacancy and two Commissioner vacancies at
   the California Transportation Commission. The Commissioner positions
   are appointed by the Governor and applications must be made through the
   Office of the Governor.
   wedge Applications for Appointed Positions



                              __________ search
                                 (*)  My CA



   AB 1012 State Highway Account Program
   The main intent of AB 1012 is to reduce the large cash balance in the
   State Highway Account in the State Transportation Fund.
     * General Information
     * SHA Loan Application and Agreement (PDF)
     * SHA Loan Guidelines and Procedures (PDF)
     * SHA Independent Fiscal Consultant List (PDF)


   Additional CTC Information
   For additional CTC related information and adopted resolutions, please
   see Caltrans, Transportation Programming, and the Office of CTC
   Liaison.
     * Caltrans CTC Liaison
     * Caltrans Home
     * Transportation Programming Home

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2001 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
   Last Update October 18, 2001—Desktop Advantage, Network Support to CTC
