http://flightprojects.msfc.nasa.gov


     Flight Projects Directorate

   Flight Projects Logo


                                                                     FD 02
                                                                  Advanced
                                                                  Projects


                                                                     FD 03
                                                                   Chandra

                                                                     FD 10
                                                Business Management Office

                                                   FD 11 - Resources Group


                                                                     FD 20
                                                            Flight Systems

                                                       FD 21 - ECLSS Group
                                           FD 22 - Nodes 2/3 Program Group
                                           FD 23 - External Carriers Group


                                                                     FD 30
                                                                   Payload
                                                              Operations &
                                                               Integration

                                           FD 31 - Multi-Use Payload Group

                                FD 32 - Payload Operations Directors Group

                                             FD 33 - Payload Systems Group

                                              FD 34 - Mission Design Group

                                      FD 35 - Training and Crew Operations
                                                                     Group

                                      FD 36 - Operations Development Group


                                                                     FD 40
                                                            Ground Systems

                                 FD 41 - Mission Systems Development Group

                                     FD 42 - Mission Support Systems Group

                                                   FD 43 - Mission Systems
                                                                Operations
                                                                     Group


     Animated images of the different Flight Projects areas

     The mission of the Flight Projects Directorate is to provide project
     management, design, development, integration, testing, and
     operations of ground and flight systems for the International Space
     Station, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and other customers. To
     develop innovative solutions for the business of flight operations
     and to pursue the definition and development of future space
     projects.

     The Flight Projects Directorate supports the International Space
     Station (ISS) Program through task agreements with the ISS Program
     Office at the Johnson Space Center (JSC). We have a vital role in
     building, operating, and utilizing the ISS for NASA. We are
     responsible for development of the regenerative life support systems
     for ISS's crew and research animals; management oversight of two
     node elements, and the Multi-Purpose Logistics Module being built by
     the Italian Space Agency; the EXPRESS rack and other payload support
     equipment; integration support of Spacelab pallets and support
     equipment for ISS assembly; and environmental qualifications.

     Space Station Picture The broad task assigned to MSFC by the ISS
     program office is that managing the daily business of payload and
     science operations. NASA has the role of leading the International
     Partners in the integration of ISS overall station operations, and
     the MSFC operations team in the HOSC has been delegated
     responsibility for payload operations.

     At the international level, the team performs the planning and
     real-time control functions of the Payload Operations Integration
     Center (POIC). This means planning and conducting the payload
     activities for all International Partners, to insure safety, mission
     success and efficient use of the ISS crew and resources.

     For US payloads, there is a more detailed role of integration to
     conduct detailed operation of NASA's onboard science assets. This
     includes more detailed real-time management and planning of the
     payload operations. For the US Payloads, the MSFC team also develops
     and orchestrates the astronaut payload training activities at the
     Payload Training Center in Houston.

     MSFC also provides resources in the HOSC for a team of Boeing
     experts to perform engineering analysis of the ISS systems in
     real-time. These experts are the team who developed critical ISS
     components. They are called to support Mission Control Houston
     during on-orbit assembly, and whenever there are problems that need
     the manufacturing team's analysis capabilities.

     Chandra Space Telescope Picture For the Chandra X-Ray Observatory
     (CXO) program, MSFC has supported the CXO mission operations work by
     providing some initial mission operations expertise and staffing,
     and by developing the ground system in the Operations Control Center
     in Cambridge Massachusetts. Also, a test and integration facility at
     MSFC in the Huntsville Operations Support Center remains online to
     support the CXO OCC in case of operations problems.


                           Visit the NASA website

                                International
                                Space Station
                      Marshall Media Relations Website
                              Science Operation
                                  News Site


                                Download the
                                Space Station
                                 Screensaver
                                 CLICK HERE


                                 In the News

   January 9 , 2002

   Chandra takes in bright lights, big city of Milky Way

                        In The News - Chandra Picture

   NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory has made a stunning, high-energy
   panorama of the central regions of our Milky Way galaxy. The findings
   are an important step toward understanding the most active area of the
   Milky Way as well as other galaxies throughout the universe. The
   Marshall Center manages the Chandra program.

   For more information on this article, click HERE.

   To visit our Archive of past In The News stricles, click HERE.

   Click HERE for more NASA news.


                                 Our Charter

                                  ISO Files

                         Frequently Asked Questions


                            Links for Kids Image

                               Links for Kids





                  ________________________________________
                       Search Flight Projects Website
                            Need Help Searching?


                           Visit the NASA website

                             George C. Marshall
                             Space Flight Center





         Owner: Flight Projects Directorate Curator: Sherry Wallace
      Web Services Provided by: IDS (Internet Delivery Services) - CSC
                           NASA Privacy Statement
