http://www.apfo.usda.gov

   [ISMAP:usda.gif]-USDA Logo and Link to the USDA Home Page
   Link to Aerial Photography Home page


   Link to information to help you order imagery from the Aerial
   Photography Field Office
   Link to the status of imagery acquisition and fiscal year contracts
   Link to contract administration and acquisition services for aerial
   photography and digital imagery
   Link to useful information for visiting our facility
   Link to documents and presentations presented by APFO staff and Agency
   partners
   Link to information on APFO business operations
   Email your comments and questions to the FSA and APFO webmasters.
   Link to articles that spotlight aerial imagery.
   [ISMAP:servicecenters.gif]-Link to USDA Service Centers Home Page
   [ISMAP:fsa.gif]-Link to the Farm Service Agency Home Page
   FSA - GIS Support Services Link.
   [ISMAP:nrcs.gif]-Link to Natural Resouce and Conservation Service Home
   Page
   [ISMAP:rd.gif]-Link to Rural Development Home Page
   [ISMAP:usdapt.gif]-Link to the U.S. Department of Agriculture Home Page


   Link to FirstGov Search Engine

            Graphic Art Representation of Imagery Available from the APFO

   The Aerial Photography Field Office, Farm Service Agency is the primary
   source of aerial imagery for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Over
   10,000,000 images are libraried at the APFO, dating from 1955 through
   the present.

   Browse this site for information on the availability of imagery for
   your area of interest.

   Publications and presentations developed by APFO staff and Agency
   partners are available from the white papers link. Many of the
   documents reference material of particular interest to FSA Service
   Center personnel.

   Visit the SPOTLIGHT to read about morphed digital mosaics and view
   images comprised of historical photography of Arlington, Texas, circa
   1956, 1970 and 1995.


   | USDA | FSA | RD | NRCS | FS | NASS | Send comments to the webmaster.
   |

   This is an Official United States Government system which may be used
   only for authorized purposes. Unauthorized modification of any
   information stored on this system may result in criminal prosecution.
   The Government may monitor and audit usage of this system, and all
   persons are hereby notified that use of this system constitutes consent
   to such monitoring and auditing. Visit the legal information and
   disclaimers page and the privacy policy page for more information.
