http://www-mgcm.arc.nasa.gov

   thumbnail of MarsToday poster links to gif image

                                   Mars Today

  Mars Today, created by Howard Houben of the Mars Global Circulation Model
  Group, is a poster produced daily by the Center for Mars Exploration at NASA's
  Ames Research Center. The updated poster depicts current conditions on Mars
  and its relationship to Earth in six panels.

   upper left panel The upper left panel diagrams the current positions of
   Mars and Earth in their orbits around the Sun. Note that Mars has a
   highly elliptical orbit compared to the Earth. For much of the time,
   Mars is too close to the Sun (as viewed from Earth) to be observed by
   Earth-based telescopes. For a QuickTime animation [1.1 MB] of the
   orbits of Earth and Mars and their relative positions through 2000 and
   2001 click here. The panel also shows the interplanetary trajectory of
   Mars Global Surveyor. That spacecraft entered Mars orbit in 1997. Much
   information on the Martian surface and atmosphere is being gathered by
   the Global Surveyor which began the mapping phase of its mission in
   spring 1999.

   upper middle panel The upper middle panel shows two views of the
   positions of Mars and Earth from vantage points near the ecliptic (the
   plane of the Earth's orbit). This allows visualization of the tilts of
   the rotation axes of the planets that are responsible for the seasons.
   Two views are necessary because Mars and Earth are tilted in nearly
   orthogonal directions. At this time, midsummer in the Earth's northern
   hemisphere, the north pole is pointed towards the sun. In contrast, it
   is late summer in the northern hemisphere of Mars and the sun is nearly
   over that planet's equator. The changes in seasons on the Earth and
   Mars can be visualized in a 1.2 MB QuickTime animation of this panel
   through 2000 and 2001.

   upper right panel The panel on the upper right compares the apparent
   size of the Martian disc as viewed from Earth with the size of Earth's
   disc as viewed from Mars. (Since the diameter of Mars is about half
   that of the Earth, Mars appears to be about half the size of the Earth
   when viewed from the same distance.) Both of these discs are compared
   to a circle 25 seconds of arc in diameter. This circle represents the
   largest possible apparent size of Mars as viewed from Earth (which is
   achieved only on those very rare occasions when the planets are both
   favorably positioned at the nearest points in their orbits). Even at
   these times, Mars -- a very difficult telescopic object to observe in
   detail -- is only about half the apparent size of the much more
   distant, but much larger planet Jupiter. For a QuickTime animation [1.5
   MB] of this view of Mars through the years 2000 and 2001 click here.

   lower left panel The lower left hand panel displays a simulated image
   of Mars as it would appear at the present time to a very high
   resolution Earth-based telescope. At this time, near the autumnal
   equinox, some haze is visible in the southern hemisphere. Sharp
   brightness contrasts have allowed telescopic observers to follow
   Martian surface features for many years. Unlike the Earth, the Martian
   atmosphere is usually free of obscuring clouds. One exception is the
   cold region surrounding the winter pole that may be covered by a polar
   hood of water or even carbon dioxide clouds. Another exception occurs
   during periods of widespread dust storm activity, usually in southern
   spring and summer.

   lower middle panel The lower middle panel shows a model prediction of
   the meteorology at the present time (from the Ames Mars Climate Model).
   Daily average temperatures in the lower atmosphere are color coded,
   while predicted wind speeds and directions are indicated by the arrows.
   In the equatorial regions near the surface, the atmospheric flow is
   dominated by the Hadley circulation that transports air from the cold
   winter hemisphere southwards across the equator. (A rapid transition to
   northward winds at this altitude is expected as the season changes to
   southern spring.) Because the equator rotates at a faster speed than
   other parts of the planet, this leads to a tradewind-like pattern of
   easterlies in the winter hemisphere and westerlies in the summer
   hemisphere. Strong westerlies are also apparent in the region of the
   polar night while light easterlies are prevalent in the vicinity of the
   summer pole. For a QuickTime animation [2.6 MB] of the predicted Mars
   meteorology over a one-year period click here.

   lower right panel The lower right panel shows model predictions of the
   atmospheric water vapor column on Mars. At the present season -- late
   northern summer -- there is a nearly uniform distribution of water
   vapor over the low latitude regions of Mars best observed from Earth.
   The atmospheric inventory of water should continue to increase for
   several months. For more information on Martian water, see the Mars
   water page. For a 2.5 MB QuickTime animation of the Martian water
   column predictions for 2000 and 2001 click here.

   The statistics printed below the image indicate the apparent diameter
   of Mars (in seconds of arc); the angle between the Sun and the Earth as
   viewed from Mars (in degrees); an angular measure of the season in the
   Martian northern hemisphere (Ls= 0 at the vernal equinox, 90 at the
   summer solstice, 180 at the autumnal equinox, and 270 at the winter
   solstice); the sub-solar latitude in degrees (another indicator of the
   season); the longitude of the sub-Earth point in the image; and the
   latitude of the sub-Earth point.

   Click here to display the full GIF or JPEG image. Both images are about
   170 kB in size.

   You can also display the classical 4-panel Mars Today poster (about 120
   kB).
   thumbnail of 4-panel MarsToday links to gif image

   D

   View a 600 kB Mpeg or a 3.3 QuickTime animation of the full MarsToday
   poster through 2000 and 2001.

Other Mars Images

     * Global Images of Mars
     * Surface Images of Mars
     * Other Images of Mars

   Back to the CMEX home page
