http://pubweb.epa.gov

   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: protecting human health,
   safeguarding the natural environment
   Recent Additions | Contact Us Search: __________ Search Advanced Search


                                Information on Mail
                               Delivery to U.S. EPA
                      Skip common site navigation and headers


   EPA Newsroom
   Browse EPA Topics
   Laws & Regulations
   Where You Live
   Information Sources
   Educational Resources
   About EPA
   Programs
   Business Opportunities
   Jobs
   Recursos en Español
   EPA's Explorer's Club for Kids

                                     FirstGov

                        America's Fund for Afghan Children




   Current Issues

     Response to Sept. 11

     Brownfields

     Anthrax

     Global Climate Change

     Arsenic in Drinking Water

     ENERGY STAR

                     January is Voluntary Programs Month

   Photo of a bottom of a watershed overlooking the missisippi river EPA
   Announces New Initiative to Protect and Preserve Americas Waterways -
   President Bush will include $21 million in his 2003 budget for a new
   EPA initiative to protect, preserve, and restore waterways across the
   country. This effort was announced by EPA Administrator Christie
   Whitman during a visit to the Minnesota Valley National Wildlife Refuge
   in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area. The Administrator announced as part
   of this community–based initiative, EPA will target up to 20 of this
   country’s most highly-valued watersheds for grants.

   President Bush signs the legislation to clean up thousands of polluted
   industrial sites, Friday, Jan.11, 2002, in Conshohocken, Pa.. Standing
   behind Bush are left to right, Rep. Paul Gillmor,R-Ohio, Rep. Robert
   Borski, D-Pa, State Attorney General Mike Fisher, EPA Administrator
   Christie Todd Whitman, Rep. Joseph Hoeffel, D-Pa., and Pennsylvania
   Governor Mark Schweiker. (AP Photo/Ron Edmonds) President Bush Signs
   Brownfields Legislation to Clean Environment and Create Jobs - The
   President's FY 03 budget will double the funds available through the
   EPA in FY 02 - from $98 million to $200 million - to help states and
   communities around the country clean up and revitalize brownfields
   sites.

   Photo of automobiles on an city street Consumer Reports Features EPA's
   Green Vehicle Guide Website - EPA's consumer-oriented Green Vehicle
   Guide Website that rates new cars and trucks according to their
   environmental performance is being featured in the February 2002 issue
   of Consumer Reports. Tailpipe emissions and fuel economy information
   are given for each model, and a rating is assigned. Tailpipe emissions
   from cars and trucks account for almost a third of the air pollution in
   the United States.The magazine is incorporating EPA's emission rating
   system into its reviews of new vehicles. Readers will be able to see
   how vehicles compare environmentally.

                       [ More from the EPA Newsroom ]

   Photo of Administrator Christine Whitman
   Message from Administrator
   Christie Whitman



     Key Topics
     Air
     Cleanup
     Compliance & Enforcement
     Economics
     Ecosystems
     Emergencies
     Environmental Management
     Human Health
     Industry
     International Cooperation
     Pesticides
     Pollutants / Toxics
     Pollution Prevention
     Research
     Treatment & Control
     Wastes
     Water
           [Browse EPA Topics]


                   Begin Site Footer

   EPA Home | Privacy and Security Notice | Contact Us
