http://www.wiw.uscourts.gov

   U.S. Court, Western District of Wisconsin

         Western District of Wisconsin

   Court Offices
          Specific information about the U.S. Bankruptcy Court , U.S.
          District Court , and U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services.

   About The Western District of Wisconsin
          General information about the U. S. Court for the Western
          District of Wisconsin (WIW) including a jurisdiction map and
          contact information for the U. S. Court for the Eastern District
          of Wisconsin.

   United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
          While the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
          is an organization separate from the United States Court, the
          two groups do have certain related goals. However, the court
          does not have staff that is knowlegble about immigration and
          naturalization issues. Visit the Immigration and Naturalization
          Service web site for answers to common questions, copies of
          forms, and general information about the United States
          Immigration and Naturalization Service.

   Case Information
          P.A.C.E.R. is a national program that grants public access to
          court electronic records. Through P.A.C.E.R. you can access
          docket sheets, calendars, and indexes for courts throughout the
          country. Look here for more detail.

   Driving Directions
          Are you trying to get to the Robert W. Kastenmeier United States
          Courthouse? Follow these directions.

   Employment Opportunities
          Periodically we will list employment opportunities in the
          Western District of Wisconsin.

   Related Sites
          A list of related Internet sites.

   What's New
          Here is where we will let you know when we've added something
          new.

   Feedback
          Do you have a comment or an idea about our web site? Let us know
          what you think.


                               [barrulec.gif]

                                 U.S. Court
                        Western District of Wisconsin
                      Bankruptcy Court: (608) 264-5178
                       District Court: (608) 264-5156
               Probation and Pretrial Services: (608) 264-5165
                         webmaster@wiwd.uscourts.gov

                           Last Modified: 07/18/00
