http://www.doe-md.gov

                          U.S. Department of Energy

                 Miamisburg Environmental Management Project

                          doelogo.gif (6469 bytes)

   Annual Site Environmental Report  2000
   Separation Line


                          Mound Info.
                          Separation Line
                          Projects
                          Separation Line
                          Notice of Public Comment
                          Separation Line


   Transition/Auctions

   Separation Line
   Community Involvement

     Separation Line
   Technology Programs

   Separation Line
   Environmental Restoration Activities
   Separation Line
   Post Closure Stewardship

   Separation Line
   Back to Main Page

   Questions?
   Contact our Public Affairs Officer (937)865-3116
   or
   e-mail:
   jane.greenwalt@
   ohio.doe.gov
   ohio.doe.gov



   More Milestones Reached at Mound Facility

   Miamisburg, Ohio - BWXT of Ohio, Inc., remediation contractor at the
   U.S. Department of Energy Miamisburg Environmental Management Project
   in Miamisburg, Ohio, has accomplished two more major milestones in the
   cleanup activities at the Mound facility. The removal of a processing
   line and the demolition of  B Building put BWXTO on track for site
   closure in 2006.  more>>


                   BWXT of Ohio Receives Governor's Award

   BWXT of Ohio, Inc., remediation contractor at the Department of
   Energy's Mound facility has recently been selected as a winner of the
   prestigious Governor's Excellence in Workers' Compensation Award. This
   award was presented to only 12 stellar organizations from among the
   more than 280,000 employers across Ohio.

   This award recognizes and thanks Ohio businesses and public employers
   who provide safe and cost-effective workplaces for their employees,
   while supporting their injured workers. It also recognizes BWXTO's
   commitment to workplace safety and getting employees back to work in a
   timely manner.

   The 12 organizations including BWXT of Ohio, Inc. will be honored at a
   luncheon on August 22, 2001 in Columbus, Ohio.

   aerial photo of Mound Facility 1998
   Welcome!
   Welcome to the Miamisburg
   Environmental Management
   Project Web Site.

                        Mound Monthly Progress Report
                                DECEMBER 2001
                     Follow the progress of the clean-up
                              Report Archives>>

    Mound Action Committee Meeting to be held Friday, February 8, 2002 at
                        the Miamisburg Civic Center,
                9:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m.  All welcome to attend.


   BWXT of Ohio receives "Corporation of the Year" Award

   Miamisburg, Ohio - BWXT of Ohio, Inc., (BWXTO), has received the
   "Corporation of the Year" Award by the South Central Ohio Minority
   Business Council (SCOMBC). The award was presented to BWXTO for its
   outstanding leadership in minority procurement at the SCOMBC "Toast to
   the Best" reception at the Dayton Racquet Club on December 5, 2001.
   more>>

                    Go to the Ohio Field Office Web Site


    Links to other sites:

                         altapproved.gif (2389 bytes)

    City of Miamisburg

                         The following pages are not yet Bobby Approved:
                         Mound Land Transfer Process
                         Some Fact Sheets

   In cooperation with the following companies:
   BWXT, Inc. Click here to go to the BWXT, Inc. Web Site Weston. Click
   here to go to the Weston Web Site.     Unisys. Click here to go to the
   Unisys Web Site       Los Alamos Technical Associates. Click here to go
   to the LATA Web Site    washsamll.jpg (10719 bytes)     Hit Counter
   hits to date.


   CAPTION: Footer Navigation Bar

   Mound Information /  Projects  /  Potential Release Sites  /  Points of
                    Contact  /  Notice of Public Comment

      Transition/Auctions  /  Post Closure Stewardship /  Mound Action
                   Committee  /  Technology  / Content Map
   /  LARGE TEXT CONTENT MAP / HOME
