http://santa.lanl.gov

                          Where's Santa Claus Now?

                               [hollybar.gif]

     The satellite tracking group from the Nonproliferation and
     International Securities (NIS) Division of Los Alamos National
     Laboratory will be helping KRSN (AM 1490) keep track of Santa Claus'
     where abouts on December 24th. To monitor his progress as he races
     around the world delivering presents and goodies to good children
     everywhere, we will be using the satellite tracking dishes both in
     Los Alamos, New Mexico and Fairbanks, Alaska as well as sensors on
     both the ALEXIS and FORTE satellites . In addition, the Air Force
     with 9 tracking stations around the world will also be helping us.

     How are we able to track Santa with our satellites? Both the ALEXIS
     and FORTE satellies are in highly inclined, 70 degree (measure of
     the angle between the orbit plane and the plane of the Earth's
     equator,) orbits. Their altitudes above the earth's surface is 500
     miles. From this orbit, the satellites travel between the latitudes
     of +/- 70 degrees and can monitor the whole world for signs of Santa
     whenever they are in view.

     We believe that Rudoph's red nose not only puts out optical and
     infrared light, but also puts out x-rays which we have detected in
     the ALEXIS telescopes. In addition, we think the FAA has required
     Santa to fly with a radio transponder on his sleigh, similar to what
     airplanes all use, to help them insure safe flights around the world
     in the air space. This radio transponder has been detected with the
     radio receiver that flys onboard the FORTE satellite. There is also
     an optical camera on FORTE that we will use to try to get a glimpse
     of Santa and his team.

                               [hollybar.gif]

   World Weather Map North Pole Weather Forecast: US Weather Service
   National Weather Service--New Mexico Radar North Pole Weather Forecast:
   Weather Elf

                               [hollybar.gif]

     Although we never know for sure where he will be, we think the
     preliminary flight plan will be as follows:

     December 24 (times are local time in New Mexico, USA)

     6 am: Santa Claus departs from the North Pole and heads west towards
       the International Date Line
     7 am: Siberia
     8 am: Japan
     9 am: Philippines
     10 am: Australia
     11 am: China
     12 noon: India
     1 pm: Russia
     2 pm: Europe
     3 pm: Scandinavia
     4 pm: British Islands
     5 pm: Africa
     6 pm: South America
     7 pm: Mexico
     8 pm: Nova Scotia
     9 pm: New England
     10 pm: Chicago
     11 pm: Mid-West
     12 midnight: New Mexico

       [sulingadvent_160x50.gif]
     An advent calendar made by the students at The International School
     in Denmark with links about Christmas around the world
     In addition to leaving out a plate of cookies and a glass of milk
     for Santa, you might want to send an e-mail to our servicemen who
     are not able to be home this holiday season. E-mails can be sent
     from the website: http://AnyServiceMember.Navy.mil

                              [merry_xmas.gif]
