http://cslp.gsfc.nasa.gov

   skip to main content

   [USEMAP:navbar2.gif]

               Collage of student activities & space pictures

                       Welcome to the CSLP Home Page!

   You have reached the home page for the Cooperative Satellite Learning
   Project (CSLP). The CSLP is a business, government, and educational
   partnership, focusing on space sciences and engineering. Current
   sponsors are The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
   and Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc.. Students at the participating
   high schools learn about all aspects of how NASA satellite systems
   work. They also receive valuable training about the workplace through
   Work Environment Program presentations. These presentations emphasize
   skills such as Total Quality Leadership (TQL), Planning Processes, and
   Oral Presentation Skills.



The Mission

   ; The Cooperative Satellite Learning Project (CSLP) will motivate
   students regardless of age, race, or sex into science, engineering,
   math, and computers; educate students, and the community about space
   science; and prepare students for careers after school, through
   hands-on involvement in scientific missions.

The Goals

    1. CSLP will encourage community involvement in education, and will
       educate the community by distributing, and presenting information
       about space science.
    2. CSLP will provide teachers a resource for developing space science
       education programs and partnerships.
    3. CSLP will provide the science community a resource for developing
       space science outreach/education programs, and partnerships.
    4. CSLP will encourage the development of partnerships with
       businesses, education institutions, students and the community at
       large.
    5. CSLP will prepare students for the future work force, by developing
       the skills required for professional careers.
    6. CSLP will support local, state, and national efforts to reform
       science, mathematics and technology education.
    7. CSLP will encourage community involvement in education, and will
       educate the community by distributing, and presenting information
       about space science.
    8. CSLP will provide teachers a resource for developing space science
       education programs and partnerships.
    9. CSLP will provide the science community a resource for developing
       space science outreach/education programs, and partnerships.

The Sponsors

   Triana logo Triana is a NASA project a the Goddard Space Flight Center

   ;
   Honeywell logo Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc.

A Quote

       "I guess the reason many people work so hard to create and maintain
   a program such as CSLP. There are obviously as many reasons as there
   are volunteers, but I will give you one. The ATSC and NASA volunteers
   who come to your schools are what you might call the second generation
   of space pioneers. The first generation put humans into space and
   eventually on the Moon. My generation concentrated on exploring Earth
   and near space, but also on building the aerospace infrastructure. But
   I think its going to be the third generation, your generation, which is
   going to have all the real fun.

       I believe you will put humans back on the Moon, permanently. You
   will complete and operate the first permanently occupied space station.
   You will exploit the emerging technology to clean the air and water, to
   feed 10 people where one can be fed now, and to create medical
   breakthroughs which can only be dreamed of today. You will also be the
   first generation which will routinely travel on transcontinental
   shuttles above the Earth's atmosphere. And you will go to Mars, and to
   Europa, and perhaps even beyond. You CSLP students have the unique
   opportunity to be the leaders in the inevitable technical and cultural
   evolution which will take shape over the next four decades. So, perhaps
   a little selfishly, we do what we do because we understand how vital
   your leadership will be to the successful continuation of our own
   life's work. So welcome, please take full advantage of opportunities
   like today, and, above all, have fun!" --An excerpt from Kevin
   Griffin's welcoming speech at the Spring 1997 CSLP student conference.

Respond to the CSLP

   This page is updated and edited by Marilyn Glass, CSLP director. We
   appreciate any comments you have to offer the program. Please let us
   know how you feel. E-mail: Marilyn.Glass@honeywell-tsi.com.
   Please contact Marilyn Glass for text versions of all PDF files.
   Responsible NASA Website Official: John Catena
