http://erp-web.er.usgs.gov

   Link to USGS home page


                                    Home


                                Introduction


                                Announcement


                              Current Projects


                                   Reports


                                    Links


                                 Contact Us


   spacer



      What's New (1/3/02)

   Rosie Gee's Retiring

      We would like to thank Mrs. Rosie Gee for her hard work and dedication.
      Rosie has been a part of the External Research Program for 14 years. We
      wish her luck and hope she enjoys her retirement.

   FY2002 Projects

      We now have a table of the FY2002 projects that will be funded by the
      USGS NEHRP External Grants Program on the website. Just click on the
      Current Projects tab at the top of the page. You can also see the
      FY2001 projects. The FY2002 table includes all the awards that will be
      funded including new grants, the second year of two-year FY2001 grants,
      network cooperative agreements, and other cooperative agreements.

   Still looking for FY2001 Annual Summary Reports

      If you had an active award (grant or Cooperative Agreement) during the
      period October 1, 2000 through September 30, 2001, you are required to
      submit an Annual Summary Report to the USGS NEHRP Program. These
      reports were due on November 1, 2001, but we will accept reports up
      through December or even beyond if you have not had a chance to
      complete yours yet. Remember, this report gives you the opportunity
      show the rest of the earthquake research community the work you have
      accomplished.

   FY2003 Announcement

      We are currently working on the Announcement for the next proposal
      cycle.

      [Other USGS Earthquake Hazards Websites] [BUTTON Input] (not
      implemented)__


   U.S. Geological Survey, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior
   This page is brought to you by the External Research part of the
   Earthquake Hazards Program
   URL: http://erp-web.er.usgs.gov/
   Last modification: Tuesday, 11-Dec-2001 15:45
   Contact Us: junger@usgs.gov
   USGS Privacy Statement | | Disclaimer

                                                  First Government graphic
