http://materials.pnl.gov

                         |Security and Privacy Statement|

                       Pacific Northwest National Laboratory


   Materials Resources



                                                                     R & D
                                                            Meet Our Staff
                                                               Collaborate
                                                                    Awards

                                 Our Vision

   Our vision is to be nationally recognized for excellence in discovering
   new knowledge about the materials and chemical science disciplines, and
   in developing and deploying innovative, cost-competitive, and
   environmentally acceptable materials and processing technologies.

                                 Our Mission

   Advanced materials research is a critical technology heavily relied on
   in a fundamental or supporting role for activities in many market
   sectors throughout Pacific Northwest. Excellence in fundamental
   materials research underpins the more applied program areas that have
   had major national and international impact in the transportation,
   power generation and storage, photonics, and building industries.
   Cutting edge developments in the ceramic powder processing, web
   coating, and waste treatment areas have garnered national recognition
   through IR&D 100 and FLC awards. An advanced materials design
   capability affords the prospect of developing materials with tailored
   nanoarchitectures and concurrent properties enhancement. Such
   approaches lend themselves to the control of transport phenomena in
   materials, which is the basis for more efficient separations and
   enhanced performance of batteries and fuel cells. The laboratory has
   developed advanced metal alloys and the corresponding manufacturing
   technology needed to reduce vehicle weight and address a critical
   thrust area called out in the Partnership for the Next Generation
   Vehicle (PNGV).

              Developing Materials for Tomorrow’s Technologies

   Technological advancement and economic survival in the world
   marketplace depend on innovative process for producing new and improved
   materials.  Our staff – with expertise in chemistry, materials
   sciences, chemical engineering, and computer science – is developing
   synthesis process and evaluating material performance for a wide range
   of needs. For example, research on the relationships between structural
   and optical properties has led to technology that allows fabrication of
   multi-layer optical coatings on large surfaces.

   We also are looking to nature to unlock some mysteries of material
   synthesis. By imitating the mechanisms by which nature controls the
   formation of the shells of mollusks and other shellfish, we are
   developing a new generation of ceramic composites. Potential
   applications of these bio-mimetic materials include high-density
   magnetic storage tapes, adhesives, sensors, laser optics, and
   bio-active bone implants.

   Expensive ultra fine ceramic powders can be simply and economically
   produced in significant quantities using a high-temperature combustion
   synthesis technique we discovered. This glycine-nitrate process may
   contribute to the commercialization of solid oxide fuel cells and other
   important new technologies of 1992.

   Basic-to-applied research on materials interfaces and
   materials-environmental interactions elucidate mechanisms of failure in
   engineering components and have led to improved structural materials
   for use in aggressive environments.

                      Other areas of research include:

   [bullet1.gif]

   Composite materials for lightweight armor
   [bullet1.gif]

   Superplastic forming of lightweight automotive components
   [bullet1.gif]

   Polymer multi-layer thin film deposition
   [bullet1.gif]

   Interfacial Science to Optimize Materials Behavior
   [bullet1.gif]

   Corrosion-Resistant Materials for Use in Aggressive Environments
   [bullet1.gif]

   Superconducting thin films
   [bullet1.gif]

   Advanced sensors
   [bullet1.gif]

   Fission and fusion reactor materials
   [bullet1.gif]

   Glasses and grouts for stabilization of nuclear and hazardous wastes
   [bullet1.gif]

   Solid Oxide Fuel Cells


                                [divider.gif]

                           Company Profile -- PNNL

                                [divider.gif]

                             Contact Information

          Telephone (509) 375-3676

          FAX (509) 375-2167

          Postal address

          PO Box 999, MSIN K2-50

          Electronic mail

          General Information: larry.pederson@pnl.gov
          Webmaster: wendy@pnl.gov


      Home Feedback Site Map Search

   Send mail to wendy@pnl.gov with questions or comments about this web site.
   Copyright © 1998 Materials Sciences
   Last modified: July 24, 2000
