http://infocus.gsfc.nasa.gov

                               InFocus plaque

   InFOCmS is a balloon-borne instrument incorporating recent
   breakthroughs in focusing optics and detectors to achieve order of
   magnitude improvements in both hard X-ray sensitivity (~100 mCrabs in
   12 hours, 20 mC for LDB) and imaging resolution (~1 arcmin), with high
   resolution spectroscopy (~2 keV FWHM). This instrument will pioneer the
   extension into the hard X-ray energy range of the power of focusing
   optics that has revolutionized X-ray astronomy with missions like ROSAT
   and ASCA. ROSAT covered the X-ray range of 0.1 - 2.5 keV, and ASCA the
   0.5 - 10 keV range. We expect exciting new results such as direct
   imaging of cosmic-ray acceleration and nucleosynthesis (^44Ti lines) in
   the Cas A supernova remnant and the first measurement of intergalactic
   magnetic field strengths. Our international collaboration includes
   world leaders in the development of foil mirrors, multicoated optics,
   CdZnTe detectors, and balloon payloads with the experience and
   resources necessary to successfully exploit these promising new
   technologies from the Constellation-X concept study.

                    sketch of InFOCuS. Description below

   A visualization of the InFOCmS balloon-borne gondola in flight. The
   main elements are the four mirror assemblies at the top and the
   pressure vessel containing the CdZnTe detector and CsI shield
   assemblies at the bottom of the 8-meter truss. The electronics and
   pointing control systems are on the other side of the "floating ball"
   single-point suspension.
   Palestine Pictures: - May 2001 campaign.

               To return to the InFOCuS Home Page click here.
     Questions or comments regarding this Web site may be sent to Eunice
                                    Eng.
                     Please include the URL of the page.
              This Web site is a service of LHEA at NASA/ GSFC.
             Our LHEA Technical Representative is Jack Tueller.
           To see the NASA Web site privacy statement click here.
             To see the NASA Web site warning banner click here.
