http://www.tn.nrcs.usda.gov

   [nrcsbanner.gif]

   [fallscene2.jpg]                       Unity Ribbon


                                  Tennessee

                              State Information

                             Personnel Directory

                             Program Information

                         Natural Resources Inventory

                                News Letters

                               Success Stories

                              Partnership Links

                               Upcoming Events

                           Civil Rights Committee

                      Tennessee and National Bulletins

                             Technical Resources

                     Tennessee General Manual Amendments

   Draft Standards and Specifications

   The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits
   discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race,
   color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political
   beliefs, sexual orientation, and marital or family status.  (Not all
   prohibited bases apply to all programs.)  Persons with disabilities who
   require alternative means for communication of program information
   (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET
   Center at (202) 720-2600 (Voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
   Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence
   Avenue, SW, Washington, DC  20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (Voice
   and TDD).  USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.

    NOTICE! You are entering an Official United States Government System,
                              which may be used
       only for authorized purposes. Unauthorized modification of any
                         information stored on this
    system may result in criminal prosecution. The Government may monitor
                           and audit usage of this
     system, and all persons are hereby notified that use of this system
                         constitutes consent to such
                          monitoring and auditing.

     Last Updated: 01/24/02                            Copyright © 2000,
     2001, 2002                             Comments
