http://cox.house.gov

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.
   [flagone.jpg] Order a Flag

                                 [but3a.jpg]

   Representative Cox's Television Appearances

   Washington Report: Rep. Cox's television show, featuring his interviews
   with the nation's political leaders, opinion shapers, and policy makers
   about the most pressing issues of the day. Now showing: Kate O'Beirne,
   Washington Editor, National Review. Click here for information about
   program dates and times in your area.

   Recent News from Representative Cox

   Lower the Debt Ceiling: Chairman Cox's op-ed in The Wall Street Journal
   arguing that Congress doesn't need to raise the limit on the public
   debt. In fact, we should lower it.

   Statement on Loral Penalty: Rep. Christopher Cox (R-CA) and Rep. Norm
   Dicks (D-WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Select
   Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns
   with the People’s Republic of China, released a statement on January
   10, 2002, in connection with the announcement of the record $14 million
   civil penalty imposed on Loral Space & Communications.

   President Bush Signs Chairman Cox’s Internet Tax Freedom Bill Into Law:
   President George W. Bush signed into law H.R. 1552, House Policy
   Chairman Christopher Cox’s Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act, on
   November 28, 2001. The new law extends through November 1, 2003 the
   moratorium on new, special, and discriminatory Internet taxes that was
   originally enacted in 1998 and also authored by Chairman Cox.

   President Bush, Chairman Cox Discuss Economic Security: Meeting with
   President Bush this evening at the White House, House Policy Chairman
   Christopher Cox and the House majority leadership agreed that economic
   security legislation must be enacted before year end.

   Mrs. Payne Comes to Washington: Anyone calling U.S. Representative
   Christopher Cox’s office these days might be surprised at the mature
   voice answering the phone some days.  That’s because 73-year-old Joy
   Payne of Laguna Woods, California, has an internship with the office
   until mid-December.

   CGC Narwhal

               Rep. Cox Keynotes U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Narwhal Commissioning
               Ceremony.

   Environmental Protection for Orange County on its Way to President
   Bush: The House gave overwhelming final approval to a House-Senate
   compromise of the legislation containing ten Orange County
   environmental projects sought by House Policy Chairman Christopher Cox.

   Gerald Solomon: Freedom's Hero

   House Unanimously Renews Rep. Cox’s Ban on Internet Tax Discrimination:
   The House of Representatives unanimously approved the Internet
   Non-Discrimination Act, a two-year extension of the existing Cox-Wyden
   moratorium on new, special, and discriminatory Internet taxes that was
   enacted in 1998.

   Rep. Cox Leads Congress in Joining 'Pledge Across America': At 11:00
   a.m. PDT on Friday, October 12th, Chairman Cox led the U.S. House of
   Representatives in the Pledge of Allegiance as millions of
   schoolchildren across America and the President of the United States
   did the same. Click here for Chairman Cox's remarks about the event,
   which was initiated by Celebration U.S.A., based in Villa Park,
   California.

   Now available from Chairman Cox: Policy Perspective on Tax Relief for
   Economic Growth and Policy Statement on Permanent Tax Relief.

   War and the Law: Rep. Cox's article in the October 15 issue of Forbes
   magazine outlining why liberties needn't be a casualty of conflict if
   we respect constitutional guarantees.

   War Medals Presented to Family of Deceased Army Veteran: As America
   honored its heroes of the September 11 terrorist attacks, U.S.
   Representative Christopher Cox presented Mary Virginia Adams with seven
   war medals owed to her now-deceased husband, Charles Dederer Adams. Mr.
   Adams was a first lieutenant who served in Europe during World War II
   and in Japan during the Korean War.

   Policy Statement on the Defense of the United States.

   Chairman Cox's Floor Statement on H.J. Res. 61: Expressing the sense of
   the Congress regarding the terrorist attacks launched against the
   United States on September 11, 2001.

   September 11, 2001:  Chairman Cox's op-ed on the terrorist attack on
   America.

   Click here for a comprehensive list of news from Representative Cox.

   Recent News about Representative Cox

   The Wall Street Journal - January 15

   Associated Press - December 6

   The Orange County Register - November 28

   The Orange County Register - November 19

   Bloomberg News - November 16

   Los Angeles Times - November 8

   Daily Pilot - November 3, 2000

   Daily Pilot - November 3, 2000

   Associated Press - October 17

   The Wall Street Journal - October 16

   Daily Pilot - October 1

   The Orange County Register - July 24

   Congress Daily - July 18

   Washington Times - July 2

   Daily Pilot - June 30

   Business World - June 28

   San Jose Mercury News - June 27

   Washington Internet Daily - June 27

   United Press International - June 26

   The Washington Times - June 24

   The Washington Post - June 24

   The Orange County Register - June 15

   Los Angeles Times - June 12

   USA Today - June 1

   The American Prospect - May 21

   TASS (Russia) - Friday, May 18

   Dow Jones Newswire - Thursday, May 17

   Associated Press - Thursday, May 17

   Orange County Business Journal - Monday, May 7

   Defense Week - Monday, April 30

   Business Week - Monday, April 30

   Dow Jones - Thursday, April 26

   Bloomberg News - Wednesday, April 25

   Financial Times - Wednesday, April 25

   The Hill - Wednesday, April 25

   The Hill - April 18

   Associated Press - April 13

   Chicago Tribune - April 12

   Los Angeles Times - April 5

   Associated Press - April 1

   The Bulletin's Frontrunner - Wednesday, March 21

   The Orange County Register - Wednesday, February 28

   C-Span - Tuesday, February 27

   Investor's Business Daily - Friday, February 23

   Los Angeles Times - Sunday, February 18

   United Press International - Friday, February 16

   The Washington Post - Wednesday, February 7

   The Washington Times - Tuesday, February 6

   Click here for a comprehensive list of news about Representative Cox.

   Last Updated:  Tuesday, January 22, 2002 05:26 PM

   Privacy Policy: The House of Representatives provides Rep. Cox's office
   a list of domains and nations from which this site is visited.  Further
   information is not collected unless you provide it, which you may do by
   contacting Rep. Cox directly.  Protecting your privacy is a top
   priority, no matter how you contact Rep. Cox's office; if you seek Rep.
   Cox's assistance with a federal agency, the Privacy Act applies.
