http://shuttle-mir-stage.jsc.nasa.gov


                                                                   Welcome
                                                                   History
                                                                   Science
                                                                Spacecraft
                                                                    People
                                                                References
                                                     Multimedia  _________

                                                                      Home
                                                                    Search
                                                                     Tours
                                                                  Site Map


   Shuttle-Mir History/Welcome

     The Shuttle-Mir History Web Site will be released soon!

     Welcome to the future home of the Shuttle-Mir History Web Site. Here
     you will soon see sights, sounds, and first-person stories, plus
     historical background, official documents, chronologies, and guided
     tours.

     From early 1994 into 1998, American astronauts spent nearly 1000
     days living in orbit with Russian cosmonauts. American space
     shuttles rendezvoused ten times with Russia's space station Mir.
     Called "Phase 1," the Shuttle-Mir Program prepared the way for the
     International Space Station and began an era of cooperation and
     exploration, rarely seen in human history.

Overview   [thinbar_short.gif]

     Welcome will introduce the site and present the four main
     Shuttle-Mir Goals.

     Tours will offer specially designed pathways through the site.

     History will present what happened and when, including the
     historical context of the Shuttle-Mir program.

     Science will report on over 100 investigations conducted during
     Shuttle-Mir.

     Spacecraft will describe both the American and Russian space
     vehicles.

     People will profile those who helped make Shuttle-Mir happen: the
     astronauts, cosmonauts, and the team working on Earth. This section
     will include many Oral Histories -- first-person narratives of hard
     work and adventure.

     References will include glossaries, documents, reports, other
     histories, and links outside this web site.

     Multimedia will compile many photos, videos, and diagrams.

     Site Map will display all the upper level pages and links in this
     web site.

     [thinbar_short.gif]

     Text only version available

     This page is best viewed with Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0 or
     higher or Netscape 4.0 or higher.
     Other viewing suggestions.

     NASA Web Policy



                                      NASA

                                        Curator: Sandra Johnson
                                        Responsible NASA Official: Glen Swanson

     Page last updated: 07/06/1999

   PSINet
