http://asc.jpl.nasa.gov

   [jpllogo.gif] Projects: ASC, CASPER, Planning and Scheduling,
                 Artificial Intelligence Group                  [Nasalogo.gif]
                   [asc_title.gif]

   nothing

   artificial intelligence group [_line.gif] planning and scheduling
   [_line.gif] machine learning systems [_line.gif] jpl [_line.gif]
   caltech [_line.gif] nasa

   [dot.gif] [earth.gif]
   nothing
   background description impact technology status significance problem
   sponsors moreinfo publications the team contacts
   [ts21.gif]    [asc_screen.gif]

   Background top

   Since the dawn of the space age, unmanned spacecraft have flown blind
   with little or no ability to make autonomous decisions based on the
   content of the data they collect.  The Autonomous Sciencecraft
   Constellation flight experiment (ASC) will fly on the Air Force
   TechSat-21 constellation (an unclassified mission scheduled for launch
   in 2004).  ASC will use onboard science analysis and replanning to
   radically increase science return by enabling intelligent downlink
   selection and autonomous retargeting.


   AI Technology top

   The onboard processing package will consist of three software
   components: (1) a synthetic aperture radar (SAR) image formation
   module, (2) onboard science algorithms that will analyze the image
   data, generate derived science products, and detect trigger conditions
   such as terrain boundaries and change relative to previous
   observations, and (3) a low-latency continuous planner that will replan
   activities, including downlink, based on science observations in the
   previous orbit cycles.  The ASC demonstration will also utilize cluster
   management and execution management software flying onboard the
   constellation.  Techsat-21 will be flying the TeamAgent and ObjectAgent
   cluster management software to enable the distributed spacecraft to be
   treated as a single virtual instrument.  This software enables
   functions to be migrated from spacecraft to spacecraft as operations
   dictate.  Techsat-21 will also be flying the spacecraft command
   language (SCL) execution system to enable low-level autonomous
   responses and automation.

   The image formation module will transform the raw radar instrument data
   into a possibly reduced-resolution SAR image. Preliminary calculations
   indicate that this processing is feasible, based on the complexity of
   SAR processing and the number of compute cycles available per orbit.

   The onboard science algorithms will analyze the images to extract
   static features and detect changes relative to previous observations.
   This module will enable downlinking only regions of interest, e.g.,
   regions where change such as flooding, ice melt, and lava flows have
   occurred and will also enable retargeting and search, e.g., shifting
   the radar aimpoint on the next orbit cycle to identify and capture the
   full extent of a flood. On deep space missions, onboard science
   analysis will enable capture of short-lived science phenomena at the
   finest time-scales without overwhelming onboard caching or downlink
   capacities. Examples include eruption of volcanoes on Io, formation of
   jets on comets, and phase transitions in ring systems. Generation of
   derived science products (e.g., boundary descriptions, catalogs) and
   change-based triggering will also reduce data volumes to a manageable
   level for extended duration missions that study long-term phenomena
   such as atmospheric changes at Jupiter and flexing and cracking of the
   ice crust on Europa.

   Onboard conversion of raw data to derived science products constitutes
   a form of intelligent data compression. Examples of derived products
   include compact descriptions of terrain boundaries (the outline of a
   flooded region or a fresh lava flow), histograms of heights, slopes, or
   reflectivities (volcano hypsometry), vector field descriptions of flows
   (wind vectors, ice migration), catalogs of features including type,
   location, and size information  (lakes, sand dunes), and image data of
   regions of interest, particularly regions where change has occurred or
   which stand out from the local surroundings (flooding, lava, forest
   regrowth). We note that downlinking such summarizations is
   complementary with traditional data compression techniques.

   The onboard planner will generate low-level command sequences from
   goals provided by the onboard science analysis module. The model-based
   planning algorithms will enable rapid response to a wide range of
   operations scenarios based on a deep model of spacecraft constraints,
   including faster recovery from spacecraft anomalies.   The onboard
   planner will accept as inputs the science and engineering goals and
   ensure high-level goal-oriented behavior for the constellation.


   Problem top
   Constrained downlink resources limit the science return of current and
   future space missions.


   Impact top
   Demonstration of these capabilities in a flight environment will open
   up tremendous new opportunities in planetary science, space physics,
   and earth science that would be unreachable without this technology.
   This technology would:
     * dramatically increase the science per fixed downlink by enabling
       downlink of the highest priority science data.
     * enable study of short-lived science events (such as volanic
       eruptions, dust storms, etc.)
     * reduce downtime lost to anomalies due to robust execution enabled
       by autonomy software
     * reduce instrument setup time by using autonomy software take
       advantage of execution information to streamline operations.


   Status top
   Autonomous Sciencecraft Constellation selected for New Millennium ST6
   study. Study phase begins in February 2001 and ends in August 2001.

   Implementation phase would result in delivery of software for
   spacecraft completion in Fall 2003 and scheduled launch in Fall 2004.


   Description top

   To further illustrate the ASC concept, consider a volcano observation
   scenario that involves monitoring of lava flows in Hawaii. SIR-C radar
   data have been used in ground-based analysis [Zebker et al., 1996;
   2000] to study this phenomenon. The ASC concept would be applied as
   follows:

   1) Select volcano region
   2) Radar image volcano
   3) Form reflectivity image
   4) Compare image with previous image (which may simply be a comparison
   of previous boundary position, if that was all that was returned)
   5) Determine area of new flow
   6) Downlink imagery of identified new flow areas; alternatively
   downlink a higher-level characterization of the flow.

   A more aggressive example would involve re-prioritize observation for
   high-resolution and/or repeat imaging.  As demonstrated by this
   scenario, onboard science processing and spacecraft autonomy enable
   focus of mission resources onto science events such that the most
   interesting science data is downlinked.  In this case, a large number
   of high priority science targets can be monitored and only the most
   interesting science data (during times of change and focused on the
   areas of change) need be downlinked.
   This important flight validation will enable radically different
   missions with significant onboard decision-making leading to novel
   science opportunities. The paradigm shift toward highly autonomous
   spacecraft will enable future NASA missions to achieve significantly
   greater science returns with reduced risk and cost.

Possible Science Missions

Tracking Europa Surface Ice

   [europa.jpeg]

Monitoring Io Volcanoes

   [io.jpg]




   Publications top

   Please Note:
   This material is provided for your personal use only and may not be
   retransm itted or redistributed without permission in writing from the
   paper's publisher and/o r author. You may not upload this material to
   any public server, on-line service, network, or bulletin board without
   prior written permission from the publisher and/or author. You may not
   make copies for any commercial purpose. This material is not public
   domain. Repro duction or storage of materials retrieved from this web
   site are subject to the U.S. Co pyright Act of 1976, Title 17 U.S.C.

   S. Chien, R. Sherwood, M. Burl, R. Knight, G. Rabideau, B. Engelhardt,
   A. Davies, P. Zetocha, R. Wainright, P. Klupar, P. Cappelaere, D.
   Surka, B. Williams, R. Greeley, V. Baker, J. Doan, "The Techsat-21
   Autonomous Sciencecraft Constellation Demonstration", Proceedings of
   i-SAIRAS 2001, Montreal, Canada, June 2001. (PDF)

   ASC Lunchtime Talk 7/24/2001 von Karman Auditorium (Slides, 10MB) (PDF)

   A. Davies, R. Greeley, K. Williams, V. Baker, J. Dohm, M. Burl, E.
   Mjolsness, R. Castano, T. Stough, J. Roden, S. Chien, R. Sherwood, "ASC
   Science Report," August 2001. (7.6MB) (PDF)

   Contacts top

   Dr. Steve Chien
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   Robert Sherwood
   Robert.Sherwood@jpl.nasa.gov

   The Project Team top

   JPL: Steve Chien, Rob Sherwood, Russell Knight, Gregg Rabideau, Daniel
   Tran, Ashley Davies, Steve Schaffer

   Air Force Research Laboratory, Kirtland: Paul Zetocha, Ross Wainright,
   Pete Klupar

   Interface and Control Systems: Pat Cappelaere, Dean Oswald

   Princeton Satellite Systems: Derek Surka, Margarita Brito

   Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Space Systems Laboratory:
   Professor Brian Williams

   Arizona State University: Professor Ronald Greeley, Kevin Williams

   University of Arizona: Professor Victor Baker, James Dohm

   Sponsors top

   New Millennium Program

   JPL Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Program

   [jpllogo.gif] Questions: www@www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov
