http://www.ctb.uscourts.gov

   U.S. Flag and Gavel

           United States Bankruptcy Court District of Connecticut

                          U.S. Flag and Bald Eagle

                Welcome to the United States Bankruptcy Court
                District of Connecticut website


   Addresses
   Bankruptcy Judges
   Court Calendar
   Directions
   Fees
   Forms
   Holiday Schedule
   Local Rules
   Opinions
   Phone Numbers
   Procedures
   Public Information
   Standing Orders
   Table of Contents
   Trustees
   Blank Spacer
   Voice Case Information
   Web Pacer Facts
   Customer Service Survey
   Home
   Scales of Justice

   Welcome to the Internet home of the United States Bankruptcy Court for
   the District of Connecticut. We strive to provide the same high quality
   of service online as that which you receive when you visit or call us
   personally. Our Internet site is here for your convenience and is an
   integral component of our service to the bench, bar, public, court and
   government families. We hope you find the site useful and easily
   navigated. It is an evolving site and will change as we acquire
   experience and  improve our technology, and as you let us know what
   works and what doesnt. Please let us know how we can improve our
   services, both on line and in person, by completing our Customer
   Service Survey (available at all of our Intake counters and on our
   website), giving us a call, or e-mailing me at
   Deborah_Hunt@ctb.uscourts.gov.


                                          Deborah S. Hunt

                                         Clerk of Court


                      Images are now available through
                               Web Pacer (RACER)

   Notice: a user fee of $.07 per page was approved by the Judicial
   Conference of the United States during its Sept. 1998 meeting. The
   USBC-CT will be implementing this billing requirement.  Charges will
   appear on your PACER billing statement.

       Learn how to receive notices through e-mail or fax   click here

                        You are visitor # Hit Counter

                      This site best seen at 800 x 600
