http://www.regcolab.cahwnet.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




    HomePage
    Policy Framework
    California Workforce Investment Board
    Agency Contacts
    Funded Collaboratives
    Advisory Group
    Documents in Adobe Portable Document Format
    Memorandum of Understanding
    Regional Workforce Preparation and Economic Development Act (AB 1542)
    Regional Workforce Preparation and Economic Development Act (SB 1744)



   Regional Workforce Preparation and Economic Development



                                                          __________ search
                                                             (*)  My CA


   HomePage

        Regional Workforce Preparation and Economic Development Logo

   The Regional Workforce Preparation and Economic Development Act
   (RWPEDA) was created when Governor Pete Wilson signed into law Assembly
   Bill 1542, the Welfare-to-Work Act of 1997 on August 11, 1997. The Act
   was then amended by Senate Bill 1744 in 1998. The Act directs the
   Secretary of Health and Welfare, the Secretary of Trade and Commerce,
   the Chancellor of the California Community Colleges and the
   Superintendent of Public Instruction to enter into a Memorandum of
   Understanding to develop an integrated state workforce development
   plan, as well as fund through a competitive process five or more
   regional collaboratives integrating workforce preparation and economic
   development.
   The Joint Management Team consists of executive staff from each Agency
   and is charged with implementing the Act on behalf of the four entities
   named in the legislation. The Team operates under a Memorandum of
   Understanding signed by all Partner agencies on April 1, 1998. The
   Joint Management Team initiated a competitive process and funded six
   regional collaboratives for a total of $4.5 million. See funded
   collaboratives for more information.
   The Joint Management Team met with public policy experts, Advisory
   Group members, and local stakeholders to assist in the preparation of a
   workforce development policy framework. The Advisory Group was made up
   of representatives of statewide organizations that represent key
   constituents responsible for workforce preparation, education and
   economic development in the state. The Team wishes to thank all those
   who contributed to the development of the framework, California
   Workforce Development: A Policy Framework for Economic Growth, which is
   now available on this page.

                     Comments, Complaints or Suggestions
                         Last Updated April 17, 2001
                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
