http://propellants.ksc.nasa.gov

   John F. Kennedy Space Center - Liquid Propellants and Fluids Management

     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines


                      You Can't Leave Earth Without Us!
   STS-3 Space Shuttle Columbia The KSC Propellants and Life Support (PLS)
   Office offers one-stop access to over 24 liquid-propellants,
   pressurants, chemicals, and special fluids. PLS schedules, coordinates,
   and implements delivery, storage, chemical analysis, and distribution
   of more than $40,000,000 of propellants each year to support the Space
   Shuttle, Titan, Atlas, and Delta launch vehicles, and the payloads
   which fly aboard them. Over 200 delivery containers (tankers, tube
   trailers, etc.) are used to support KSC/CCAFS propellant customers. PLS
   services are performed by the Joint-Base Operations and Support
   Contractor (J-BOSC, primarily Wyle Labs and United Paradyne Corp. as
   first and second tier subcontractors to Space Gateway Services, SGS)
   under contract to NASA Kennedy Space Center. Propellants logistics
   services are a joint-services function supporting all KSC and CCAFS
   programs.

                              Table of Contents
   The PLS/SGS Team is the sole provider of these core capabilities which
   support current programs at KSC and CCAFS and those required for future
   space launch programs. If you have comments or suggestions, you may
   email H.T. Everett.

     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines

                              Page Last Revised

                         Page & Curator Information

                                 03/09/2001

           Curator: Herman Everett (herman.everett-1@ksc.nasa.gov)
              Author:  Chuck Davis (chuck.davis-1@ksc.nasa.gov)
                 Web Development: JBOSC Web Development Team
       Propellants and Life Support Office,  H.T.  Everett, Jr., Chief
       A Service of the Spaceport Services Directorate,  Chris Fairey,
                                  Director
