http://pcb.volpe.dot.gov


   graphic layer element

   [USEMAP:left_nav.gif]




                                  Training

   Click here for the ITS PCB courses and seminars currently available at
   your fingertips. Course slides and instructor notes are also available
                       for download on select courses.

                           Free Web-Based Training
                                  Education

   Colleges and universities offer undergraduate, graduate, and extension
   programs to prepare current and future transportation professionals to
    deploy ITS projects. Click here for an online catelog that documents
            courses offered at institutions of higher education.
                            Technical Assistance

       Hands-on technical assistance assists professionals in solving
    transportation problems as they arise. Click here for information and
    links to the Peer-to-Peer Program, ITS Specialists, and FTA Regional
                    Offices, and LTAP center information.
                                Info Outreach

     Click here for information about ITS events, projects, studies, and
    other publications by numerous organizations including: The National
      Association Working Group for ITS, ITS America, and the ITS Joint
      Program Office. The PCb Program reports discuss the training and
              education needs of transportation professionals.


   The ITS PCB Program was formed to assist transportation professionals
   in developing the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to deploy,
   operate and manage ITS projects. The Program is comprehensive and
   multi-modal in nature, addressing the needs of professionals at all
   levels of government and within academia, professional associations,
   and public and private sector transportation agencies.
   The Program is coordinated through U.S. DOT's PCB Program, but is a
   collaboration involving many organizations that bring different
   strengths and expertise to support building ITS professional capacity.
   The ITS PCB Program provides professional capacity building materials
   and activities that are tailored in content, targeted to meet
   professionals' needs, and accessible. These activities include
   training, education, technical assistance, and information outreach and
   dissemination. In order to ensure these initiatives are accessible, the
   Program utilizes the most effective forms of delivery media including
   traditional classroom, distance learning, hands-on instruction, and
   peer-to-peer networking.
   This web site provides a comprehensive list of ITS PCB Program
   offerings available to transportation professionals. It also includes
   links to other relevant web sites and names of individuals that can
   assist you in further building ITS professional capacity.

   Training
   This section includes all the ITS PCB courses and seminars available at
   your fingertips. Search through the database of the ITS PCB Program,
   National Highway Institute, National Transit Institute, Office of Motor
   Carrier & Highway Safety, and ITS America for training in critical ITS
   subjects. This function provides course objectives, contact names and
   schedule information. Course slides and instructor notes are available
   for download on select courses. These courses can then be tailored to
   meet the needs of your local audience.
   Education
   Colleges and universities offer undergraduate, graduate, and extension
   programs to prepare current and future transportation professionals to
   deploy ITS projects. The ITS Education & Training Efforts at U.S.
   Universities catalog documents courses offered at higher education
   institutions.
   Technical Assistance
   Hands-on technical assistance assists professionals in solving
   transportation problems as they arise. The Peer-to-Peer Program
   provides at desk-reviews, telephone and documentation support, and site
   visits. ITS Specialists located at FHWA Resource Centers and FTA
   Regional Offices are also listed.
   Information Outreach and Dissemination
   Information about ITS events, projects, studies, and other publications
   is supplied by numerous organizations. The National Association Working
   Group for ITS electronically distributes the newletter of the ITS
   Cooperative Deployment Network monthly. ITS America also offers an
   electronic newsletter. The ITS Joint Program Office sponsors the
   Electronic Document Library where one can access ITS studies, lessons
   learned, and guidelines documents. A series of five PCB reports are
   available to download to your desktop computer or to view online. These
   reports discuss the training and education needs of transportation
   professionals, including a strategy to meet those needs both now and in
   the future.
   Other
   Links to Related Sites
   The related links for PCB training opportunities and additional
   educational and training resources are located in this area.



   [training] [education] [technical assistance] [info outreach] [related
                                   links]
                   [about us] [contacts] [feedback] [home]
       ITS Professional Capacity Building Progam, Joint Program Office
                      U.S. Department of Transportation
                            Privacy & Disclaimer
