http://forum2000.boulder.nist.gov





                            Fluid Properties for

                              New Technologies

               Connecting Virtual Design with Physical Reality
                                [spacer.gif]


     [pvt.JPG]

                        A Strategic Forum during the

                 14th Symposium on Thermophysical Properties

                                  Thursday,
                                June 29, 2000
                                    Time
                             1:45 to 5:35 p. m.
                             (13:45 to 17:35 h)
                                  Location
                     MATH100 in the Mathematics Building

   [dv.JPG]

                                 [image.gif]


                                  [pcp.gif]



                             About the Surfaces

                                   Format

                                  Panelists



                                  Abstract

                                 Publication

                                   Contact



   Advances in miniaturization, decentralization, demand-controlled
   production, flexible feedstocks, and information technology will
   catalyze dramatic changes in the fluids-based industries in the 21st
   century. New technologies are emerging in areas such as waste
   minimization, advanced fuels, modular power plants, and high-value
   chemicals. Accelerated design, evaluation, and optimization of these
   processes require virtual tools based on robust information. Essential
   to these tools are physical property models, which must be validated
   with accurate data.

   All stakeholders in technology development reap the benefits from
   accurate mea- surements and improved property models. However, economic
   realities prevent single entities from committing substantial resources
   to such research. This forum will identify strategic needs for
   collaborative efforts between experimentalists and developers of
   database and process modeling tools with direct input from the end
   users to respond to their fluid property needs. The intent is to bring
   together com- petence from industry, academia, and government research
   with representatives of the funding organizations to assist in the
   realization of these collaborative efforts. These efforts will result
   in a stronger connection between virtual design tools and physical
   reality.

   Format of the Forum:
   Invited panelists gave statements about the relevance and need of fluid
   properties in emerging technology areas. These were followed by a
   general discussion including input from the audience.

   After the sessions, the Forum continued informally during the Symposium
   Barbeque at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

                                                            [top_home.gif]

   The Forum was moderated by

   Dr. Howard J. M. Hanley
   Physical and Chemical Properties Division
   National Institute of Standards and Technology
   Boulder, Colorado, USA

   Order of Panelists:
   [top_home.gif]
   Professor Peter T. Cummings
   Department of Chemical Engineering
   University of Tennessee-Knoxville, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 1.46 Mb)

   Dr. Ward TeGrotenhuis
   Chief Engineer, Environmental Technology Division
   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
   Richland, WA, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 565 kb)
   A number of conference presentations of the Microchemical and Thermal
   Systems Program at PNNL are available here.

   Addressing DoE environmental remediation efforts:
   James A. Poppiti, Team Leader In-Tank Characterization
   DoE, Office of River Protection, Richland Operations Office
   Hanford Site, Washington, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 11.5 Mb)
   [top_home.gif]
   Dr. Andrzej Anderko
   Vice President, Properties of Fluids and Materials
   OLI Systems, Inc.
   Morris Plains, New Jersey, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 127 kb)

   Representing the Vision 21 project of the Dept. of Energy (DoE):
   Thomas J. O'Brien, Physical Scientist
   National Energy Technology Laboratory
   Office of Science and Technology
   Simulation & Multi-Phase Flow Analysis Division
   Morgantown, West Virginia, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 9 Mb)

   Dr. Paul M. Mathias
   Aspen Technology, Inc.
   Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
   (Click for presentation file, 286 kb)

   Professor William A. Wakeham
   Pro Rector (Research)
   Imperial College of Science, Technology, and Medicine
   London, UK
   (Click for presentation file, 117 kb) [top_home.gif]

   The organizers thank all panelists for their outstanding contributions
   and for their permissions to make their viewgraphs available on this
   website.

   Supplementary Information:

   Technology Vision 2020 for the U.S. Chemical Industry (pdf file, 77
   pages)

   Vision 21 - Clean Energy Plant of the Future (pdf file, 36 pages)

   Publications:
   The statements of the panelists and the subsequent discussions were
   videotaped during the event. These tapes have been transcribed by Jim
   Rainwater and Chris Muzny. The transcripts and 13 essays by invited
   contributors have been published in NIST Special Publication 975. (pdf
   file, 7.8 Mb)

   A condensed summary of Forum 2000 has been published in the Journal of
   Chemical and Engineering Data, 46(2001)5, 1002-1006. (pdf file, 36 kb)

   An expanded article entitled "Fluid Properties and New Technologies:
   Connecting Design with Reality" by Allan H. Harvey and Arno Laesecke
   will appear in the February 2002 issue of Chemical Engineering
   Progress.  [top_home.gif]


     Contact:
   Dr. Arno Laesecke
   National Institute of Standards and Technology
   Physical and Chemical Properties Division
   Experimental Properties of Fluids Group
   Mail Stop 838.07
   325 Broadway
   Boulder, CO 80305-3328
   U.S.A. [spacer.gif]
   [phone.gif] +1-303-497-3197

   [Fax-small.gif] +1-303-497-5224

   [top_home.gif]
