http://www.leadership.opm.gov/fs59.html

   Go to OPM Homepage Skip navigation and go to content Great Leaders for
                                                        Great Government

   Search Back to Homepage Schedule Course Registration Agency Partners
   Contact Us Site Map Help

   General Information
   Courses Offered
   Knowledge Links
   Participant Login
   Privacy Policy
   Hot Links
   Receive a Course Catalog
   Download Course Catalogs in pdf format
   Stay current on new courses.
   Sign up Now!



                                     animated star Key Results
                                     animated star Leadership Competencies
                                     animated star Who Should Attend
                                     animated star Schedule and Cost

Entrepreneurial Government Management
Getting to the Good Idea and Beyond

   President Bush, in a July 11, 2001 memorandum, outlined three reform
   objectives to allow the Federal Government to "adapt to a rapidly
   changing world." He directs specific actions to enable Government to
   become:
     * Citizen-centered - not bureaucracy centered;
     * Results-oriented - not process oriented; and
     * Market-based - actively promoting, not stifling innovation and
       competition

   This is a mandate for entrepreneurial government management. It is now
   clear, this mandate will permeate all levels of the federal government.
   Indeed the reform pace begun in the 1990's has been stepped up
   considerably by the new Administration. Pressure will continue on
   government organizations to let go of the bureaucratic modality
   appropriate to an earlier time and to move to one that is
   performance-oriented, customer-focused, and cost-effective.

   Federal managers face the option of strategically orchestrating new
   structural, procedural and mission-specific directions for their
   organizations, or mopping up behind the windstorm of change that is
   inevitable.

   Entrepreneurial government management is about strategic thinking,
   broadening your perspective and engaging in responsible creativity.
   It's about getting beyond the good idea-to its actualization. It's
   knowing what business and regulatory tools are at your disposal and how
   to use them. It's calculated risk-taking and beating the odds. It's
   looking for partners in unexpected areas. It requires that you
   revolutionize your work culture to allow your team members to perform
   and create at the top of their form. It's about loving your work.
   Finally, it's about giving the U.S. taxpayers the best government can
   be in a cost-effective way.

   Can you use outsourcing and contract options to the best advantage of
   your organization and its mission? Do you know the implications and
   applications of A-76? Can you apply strategic business tools, such as
   the balanced scorecard to your non-profit mission? Could you use new
   tools to help you build a vision for your organization that is truly
   transformational and empowering? Would you like to join other
   government managers in an exploration of the territory at the
   envelope's edge-and beyond?
   Successful government entrepreneurs, business experts and reinvention
   gurus lead this week- long workshop designed to help you ignite and
   fuel your own entrepreneurial revolution. Large and small group
   activities, personalized assessments and individualized consultant
   roundtables give you the insights, tools, knowledge, ideas, inspiration
   and a network of like-thinking managers from across government to help
   you create a blueprint for transformational change.

                        Leadership Competencies emphasized in this seminar


             External Awareness
             Strategic Thinking
             Vision
             Integrity/Honesty
             Accountability
             Decisiveness
             Oral Communication
             Partnering
             Political Savvy

Key Results

     * Assess your own risk-profile and change style. Then learn what
       strategic and managerial implications these have for
       entrepreneurial success.
     * Understand the parameters of entrepreneurial management within a
       government setting and develop workable applications for your own
       organization.
     * Explore new habits of the mind that enable you to think beyond the
       'givens' and get past traditional impasses. Learn to learn from
       failure.
     * Learn the responsibilties of entrepreneurial management for the
       well-being of the organization, the team, the customer, and the
       success of the project.
     * Learn the business tools that enable you to get "beyond the good
       idea." Familiarize yourself with the uses of the "Balanced
       Scorecard," cost-based accounting, influencing and negotiation
       strategies, and approaches to program evaluation.
     * Learn about the political, legal and regulatory environment for
       entrepreneurial government.
     * Apply what you know to develop and communicate a compelling vision
       for renewal, creativity, service and enhanced productivity for your
       organization.
     * Develop a network of like-minded mangers across government with
       whom you can continue to explore new approaches, exchange ideas and
       encourage in challenging times.

Who Should Attend

   As the program builds upon participant's experience and perspective, we
   expect managers at the GS-13 through GS-15 level or equivalent to
   benefit most from this program.


                       Schedule and Cost Register Now

                          Offered at Eastern Management Development Center

    PDF

        Download the Entrepreneurial Government Management information in
        Portable Document Format (PDF). (115 KB)

                        Download Adobe Acrobat Reader
     PDF files require Adobe's free Acrobat Reader program or plug-in to
                                view. (5.6MB)

                                 Top of Page

   Looking for courses at a specific Center? Select Center logo or link
   below.



   The Federal Executive Institute Western Management Development Center
   Eastern Management Development Center

   Federal Executive Institute
   in Charlottesville, VA
                              Western Management
                              Development Center
                              in Denver, CO
                                                Eastern Management
                                                Development Center
                                                in Shepherdstown, WV

               More Information? 1-888-676-9632
   Home | Contact Us | Site Map | Help | Course Registration
   General Information | Courses Offered | Knowledge Links
   Participant Login

   Last Updated: Wednesday, January 9, 2002
