http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERJ/NJ080183.HTML

   NOAA logo   NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE               Operations Manual
                                           SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND
   20910        Letter 1-83


   Date of Issue:     January 11, 1983                Effective Date:
   January 11, 1983

   In Reply Refer To:     W/OM14                      File With:    J-08

   Subject:     National Plan For Radiological Emergencies

   Reference(s): None

   A copy of the "National Plan For Radiological Emergencies at Commercial
   Nuclear Power Plants" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") has been
   distributed to all offices. The purpose of this OML is to implement the
   Plan within the NWS.

   The Western, Central, Southern, and Eastern Regions are responsible
   for:

     1.    Assigning a WSO and/or WSFO to provide services for each
     commercial nuclear power plant (with another office designated as
     backup).

     2.    Ensuring that the following users have a current telephone
     number for both the primary and backup support  offices:

       a.     nuclear power plant (unless both the NWS and the plant are
   on NAWAS).

       b.     NRC Operations Center U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
   Washington, D. C. 20555

       c.     DOE Atmospheric Release Advisory Capability (ARAC) LLNL
   L-262 P.O. Box 808 Livermore, California 94550

     3. Maintaining a current list of officials at the regional level who
     are authorized to manage the emergency response of the region and
     coordinate with NWS Headquarters.

     4. Designating coordinator(s) to serve the Emergency Operations
     Facility which will be established near the plant.

     5. Documenting regional plans in an ROML.

   The Plan states that the initial interagency request for support will
   be directed to the following individuals in order (their home telephone
   numbers are listed in the Operations Division Duty Manual available to
   Regional Headquarters personnel):

   1) Chief, Applied Services Branch (W/OM14)
   2) Deputy Chief, Applied Services Branch (W/OM14xl)
   3) Chief, Operations Division (W/OM1)
   4) Executive Officer, Office of Meteorology (W/OMxl)
   5) Director, Office of Meteorology (W/OM)

   Any of the officials listed above may activate the plan. However, the
   most senior one immediately available should do so. Normally this would
   be Director, Office of Meteorology. The Acting Deputy Assistant
   Administrator and/or Acting Assistant Administrator for Weather
   Services, along with the NO M /NWS Public Affairs Office, must be
   advised of action taken as soon as possible.

   Please note that:

     1) Use of DOD Airlift capability is intended primarily for use by
     the NWS mobile RAWINSONDE unit (staffed by NWS Headquarters
     personnel). Mobile PIBAL teams, if needed, normally will be
     transported via means to be arranged regionally (e.g., commercial or
     charter flights, GSA van, etc.)

     2) Any surface observations from special sites or airfields near the
     nuclear plant will be provided by the DOD.

     3) NWS personnel will not enter, or work in, areas where radiation
     levels are or could be a hazard. Trained and properly equipped DOD
     mobile teams will be used for such assignments.

     4) The NWS will be reimbursed for any reasonable expenses incurred
     in responding to an emergency. Therefore, any necessary travel,
     overtime, etc. should be authorized. Travel costs associated with
     other aspects of the Plan, e.g., training of state officials, will
     be authorized insofar as funding is available.

     5) The Plan requires that an NWS coordinator provide direct
     assistance to the NRC Operations Center; the primary coordinator
     will be the Chief, Applied Services Branch, Operations Division,
     with the Deputy Chief as backup.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Acting Assistant Administrator
      for Weather Services
