http://education.nasa.gov/sharp/

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   Summer High School Apprenticeship Research Program The Summer High
   School Apprenticeship Research Program (SHARP) is a research based
   mentorship program that is specifically designed to attract and
   increase underrepresented students' participation and success rates in
   mathematics and science related courses, as well as to encourage career
   paths that help build a pool of underrepresented science and
   engineering professionals in the work place.

   Each year SHARP offers a select group or approximately 200 high school
   students the opportunity to participate in an intensive science and
   engineering apprenticeship program. The students are selected on the
   basis of having shown the aptitude for and interest in science and
   engineering careers. The program operates during the summer months for
   approximately eight weeks at participating National Aeronautics and
   Space Administration (NASA) Field Installations. As apprentices, the
   students learn as well as earn. After participating in an orientation,
   the apprentices are then assigned to work with a NASA mentor in a
   specific area of science or technology.

   The NASA Summer High School Apprenticeship Research Program website
   will provide detailed information and instructions regarding how
   students can participate in this NASA Education Program.

   The SHARP brochure contains information on the NASA Summer High School
   Apprenticeship Research Program (SHARP) and application information.

   SHARP is a NASA Education program that is managed by the Modern
   Technology Systems, Inc. (MTSI). The SHARP homepage is maintained on an
   Internet server that resides outside the NASA Internet domain. To
   return to NASA's Education website, use the "back" button on your
   browser or bookmark this page for later reference.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
     NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Field Center Education Web Sites
