http://www.legislative.noaa.gov/mahoneytst012402.pdf

   Opening Statement of James R. Mahoney Nominated to be Assistant
   Secretary of Commerce For Oceans and Atmosphere Committee on Commerce,
   Science, and Transportation United States Senate Washington, D.C.
   January 24, 2002 Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, I am
   pleased to come before you today regarding my nomination for Assistant
   Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. I am honored that the
   President has chosen me for this position, and I am very grateful for
   the continuous encouragement and support of Secretary Evans, Deputy
   Secretary Bodman and Admiral Lautenbacher, who will be my supervisors
   in this position. I am particularly grateful for the opportunity to
   appear before you at this early time immediately after your return from
   recess. If confirmed by the Senate, I will take up my position at the
   earliest possible date. I was born and raised in Syracuse, New York,
   and I received an outstanding undergraduate education, majoring in
   physics, at LeMoyne College in my home town. My career has involved
   over 40 years of continuous focus on the environmental and earth
   sciences, with a strong emphasis in the atmospheric, climate,
   hydrological and oceanographic areas. I have benefitted from diverse
   work responsibilities in academic, corporate, government and
   international settings. I look forward to applying this experience in
   helping the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and
   the Commerce Department to address their critical national missions. I
   received a Ph.D. degree in meteorology from MIT, and then immediately
   joined the Faculty of Public Health at Harvard University, in its
   Department of Environmental Health Sciences. This early-career focus on
   public health and the environment set me on a course of responsible
   environmental management that has influenced all of my professional
   work. Drawing upon my Harvard experience, I was co-founder of an
   environmental management company, then known as Environmental Research
   & Technology, Inc. (ERT) which grew to become the nation's largest
   environmental firm by the end of the 1970's, operating throughout the
   United States and several other nations. By 1975 ERT had became the
   largest employer of meteorologists and related technical specialists in
   the United States, except for the federal government itself. My
   experience with ERT provided great lessons on the management of a large
   technical organization. This experience was later enhanced during my
   service as a senior executive at the Bechtel Group in San Francisco and
   International Technology Corporation in Los Angeles and Washington. I
   came into public service as Director of the National Acid Precipitation
   Assessment Program (NAPAP), working in the Executive Office of the
   President from 1988 through early 1991. NAPAP was a unique 10-year
   program created by the Energy Security Act of 1979, and charged with
   recommending sound approaches to controlling acid rain effects, while
   providing for continued energy and economic security for the nation. My
   service as NAPAP Director included the completion of the 10-year
   program involving the work of more than 2,000 technical and economic
   specialists; the publication of a major, internationally-reviewed acid
   rain compendium; and extensive issue analyses supporting the
   development of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. My NAPAP
   experience is particularly relevant to today's global climate change
   issues: complex scientific and technological questions, intertwined
   with substantial energy and economic security issues, are best
   addressed in a comprehensive fashion, preferably with a well-defined
   assessment plan that incorporates all of the principal issues under
   consideration. In addition to my experience in the United States, I
   have worked in more than fifty other nations in several different
   roles: negotiating and overseeing international joint venture technical
   companies, representing the U.S. government in specialist exchanges,
   advising government agencies on sustainable industry, fishery and
   agricultural practices (particularly in developing nations), and
   advising several United Nations and other international agencies. I am
   a Fellow and former President of the 12,000-member American
   Meteorological Society, which serves the atmospheric, oceanographic and
   hydrological fields. I am gratified that during my term as President
   (beginning in 1990) the AMS undertook to expand its service to American
   and international society. As a result of a strategic review conducted
   during my term as President, AMS committed to a long-term program of
   support for science education at all levels, encouragement of technical
   careers for minority students, and the application of sound science to
   complex public issues including disaster preparedness, environmental
   protection and global climate change, among others. I have been honored
   to serve on several committees of the National Academy of Sciences
   dealing with weather and climate, environmental protection and science
   education, beginning in the early 1970's. In 1999 I completed a term as
   Co-Chairman of the Academy's Board on Atmospheric Science and Climate.
   I am committed to supporting Admiral Lautenbacher in assisting NOAA
   with its highly important missions aimed at understanding, protecting
   and enhancing our ocean, coastal, fishery, atmospheric and climate
   resources. NOAA has the benefit of a large number of highly skilled
   scientific, technical and administrative personnel, and I shall do all
   I can to help "build on strength" to enhance the careers of all NOAA
   personnel, and to further improve NOAA's service to the nation and the
   world. Should I have the privilege of your endorsement and confirmation
   by the Senate, I pledge my continuous best efforts to serve the
   President, the Secretary of Commerce and the entire NOAA team. I also
   pledge my full responsiveness to members and staff of this Committee,
   as well as to the entire Senate and House of Representatives. I want to
   acknowledge and thank my wife Taya Mahoney who provides continuing love
   and support for my work; my six adult children, their spouses and our
   eleven grandchildren who give meaning to our family life; and, not the
   least, our five-year-old twin daughters who bring us joy every day.
   Thank you again for the opportunity to appear before you today. 2
