http://vt.water.usgs.gov/WhatsNew/newsreleases/bedrockwrir01-4183.html

   Link back to NH/Vt home page

       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home
   Water Resources of New Hampshire and Vermont
   News Release:01/02/02


   Potential Water-Bearing Fractures in New Hampshire Bedrock
   Evaluated with Geophysical Methods

   Finding high-yielding wells in fractured-bedrock aquifers requires
   several tools, tests, and information to help in the search. The U.S.
   Geological Survey, in cooperation with the New Hampshire Department of
   Environmental Services, has released a report describing the results of
   tests of several geophysical survey methods to test these tools at
   several wells in southern New Hampshire.

   "Geophysical survey results can be used to indicate the location and
   orientation of fracture zones, through which ground water may flow in
   crystalline rock," said Jim Degnan, Hydrogeologist and author of the
   report. Until now, few studies have been published to document the
   effectiveness of geophysical tools for investigating a fractured
   crystalline bedrock aquifer, especially in the Northeast. The results
   of this USGS study show that some of the tools could locate areas
   associated with bedrock fractures at high-yielding well sites. These
   tools work best when results are examined along with geologic
   information and other data such as drillers' well records.

   The study results are published in Water-Resources Investigations
   Report 01-4183, titled "Geophysical investigations of well fields to
   characterize fractured-bedrock aquifers in southern New Hampshire," by
   James R. Degnan and others, and is available for viewing at the USGS
   office in Pembroke, N.H. by contacting the Outreach Coordinator at
   (603) 226-7837. A paper copy can be ordered at cost by calling the
   toll-free number 1-888-ASK-USGS.

   As the nation's largest water, earth and biological science and
   civilian mapping agency, the USGS works in cooperation with more than
   2,000 organizations across the country to provide reliable, impartial,
   scientific information to resource managers, planners, and other
   customers. This information is gathered in every state by USGS
   scientists to minimize the loss of life and property from natural
   disasters, contribute to the sound conservation, economic and physical
   development of the nation's natural resources, and enhance the quality
   of life by monitoring water, biological, energy, and mineral resources.

   * * * USGS * * *

   New Hampshire/Vermont District
   U.S. Department of the Interior 361 Commerce Way
   U.S. Geological Survey Pembroke, NH 03275

   Contact:

   General: Debra Foster
   Phone: (603) 226-7837
   Fax: (603) 226-7894
   Email: dhfoster@usgs.gov

   Technical: Jim Degnan
   Phone: (603) 226-7826
   Email: jrdegnan@usgs.gov

   Editors Note:

   In-depth information about USGS programs may be found on the USGS home
   page: http://www.usgs.gov or http://water.usgs.gov.

   For information on New Hampshire programs, http://nh.water.usgs.gov


       Water Data News & Events Publications Current Projects District
    Information USGS Information Related Links Outreach & Education NH/VT
                                    Home

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   New Hampshire/Vermont District, USGS, 361 Commerce Way, Pembroke, NH
   03275, USA
   Comments and feedback: NH/VT webmaster-nh@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Section 508 accessibility problems contact Debra Foster:
   dhfoster@usgs.gov, 603-226-7837
   Last Updated January 15, 2002
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer
