http://www.tasc.dot.gov/ito.html

                      ITO Search


                                   __________
                          Department Of Transportation

   Home Archives Online Directory Service Request


   ASPPS

   MSC

   VANITS

   STATUS

   Telecom-
   munications
   Operations

   TVU
   Information Technology Operations (ITO) allows TASC to offer a
   comprehensive array of IT solutions. ITO's services range from
   telephony and messaging to web enabling and e-learning. This
   flexibility enables TASC to offer our customers a convenient,
   one-stop-shopping approach to even the most specific IT needs.

   Application Service Provider Platform and Services (ASPPS)

   ASPPS provides several important data services including data storage,
   web services, financial management, a consolidated help desk, and a
   problem monitoring/resolution team. Their data center has maintained an
   incredible 99.997% system availability for the past three years. Their
   ASP approach offers a wide variety of services within a stable
   environment and all at a savings to the customer.

   More... | Back To Top

   Millennium Solutions Center (MSC)

   MSC offers customized IT services especially emphasizing records
   management/paperwork reduction (GPEA, GPRA), information security,
   project management, and E-Government. Their services are available
   through a pre-competed contract vehicle that is available to all
   government agencies.

   More... | Back To Top

   Value Added Niche Information Technology Services (VANITS)
   Special project Office

   TASC has provided an alternative to traditional GWAC's by allowing
   customers to outsource their work without their data or business
   leaving the government. Through an extensive list of contractor
   partners, VANITS provides an easy and fast way of obtaining specialized
   niche functions including e-mail/messaging, assistive technology
   services, remote maintenance monitoring services, and secure
   communications services.

   More... | Back To Top

   Specialized Technical and Technology User Services (STATUS)

   Through STATUS, TASC offers a wide variety of specialized IT services
   and support. STATUS offers "niche" services in the following areas:
   Geographic/Geospatial Information Systems, Artificial Intelligence,
   Wireless Technologies, E-Learning Management and Content, and
   Operational Support.

   More... | Back To Top

   Telecommunications Operations (TOPS)

   TASC manages the third largest, stand-alone government telephone system
   in Washington, DC. Covering the entire spectrum of cabled, broadband,
   and wireless products, TOPS offers voice, data, video, and enterprise
   network services and equipment to government agencies.

   More... | Back To Top

   Transportation Virtual University (TVU)

   TVU offers over 900 on-line courses in business, management and
   personal development designed for people at many different professional
   and technical skill levels.  Through these web-delivered,
   college-accredited courses, federal, state, local, and industry
   partners can acquire professional credits, equipping employees with the
   knowledge and the certification required for moving up or changing
   career paths.

   More... | Back To Top


   Home | Archives| On-line Directory | Service Request | Search

   TASC
   Nassif Building
   400 Seventh Street, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20590-0001
   Voice: 202-366-4747 TTY: FAX:
