http://regions.fss.gsa.gov/r01/


   Picture Federal Supply Service
                 MyGSA | Add to MyGSA | Search FSS ____________________ go
   Flag Banner
   Homepage NewEngland Federal Supply Service Home Information for
   Customers Information for Contractors Information for the General
   Public


                       First Gov
                       GSA Advantage
                       Schedules E-LIBRARY
                       GSA Schedules
                       GSA Auctions

                       Links
                       Northeast and Caribbean Region
                       Personal Property
                       Motor Vehicles
                       Customer Service
                       Boston Sites


                       Other Links

                       About FSS
                       Contact Us
                       Customer Service
                       Regional Offices
                       Privacy/Security

                   Welcome to the greater New England area
                           Federal Supply Service
          A Division of the Northeast and Caribbean Region (NECR).


                            Contract Management:

                                (Contact us)
       The Contract Management Division is responsible for Industrial
        Operations and Contract Administration of approximately 2900
   contracts.  These vendors provide not only office supplies but products
       managed by other Commodity Centers in the FSS national system.
      Kenneth Bogie is the Director of Contract Management, and RoseAnn
      Gibbons is his Deputy.  Within Contract Management there are two
     branches: Contract Administration, and Industrial Operations.  Dick
   Bell is the Branch Chief for Contract Administration.  Joe DeMartino is
                 the Branch Chief for Industrial Operations.


                         Sales/Utilization/Donation:

                                (Contact us)
   The Personal Property Management Division of New England is responsible
    for the disposing of excess and surplus personal property within the
     six New England States (Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire,
     Maine, Connecticut, and Vermont). The continued utilization of used
   personal property saves the taxpayers and the government a substantial
                         amount of money each year.
   Personal property includes a variety of items such as office machines,
     furniture, motor vehicles, communication and electronic equipment.
    The Utilization, Donation, and Sale of Government owned property is a
       very important part of the Federal Property Management Program.


                              Customer Service:

                                (Contact us)
   Our Customer Service Director's (CSD's) based in Boston are responsible
      for all facets of customer relations and marketing of the GSA/FSS
       supply network through the New England territory. CSD's handle
    telephone inquiries, one-on-one customer liaison visits and regularly
         hold customer information seminars to enhance awareness and
   understanding of current changes in products and programs. They provide
     in-house agency training along with GSA Advantage on-line shopping
      workshops. They are also a key source of information for customer
                                 assistance.


                              Fleet Management:

                                (Contact us)
    The Office of Vehicle Acquisition and Leasing Services was created in
        October 1997, combining the Automotive Division, formerly the
     Automotive Center, and Fleet Management Division. The goal of this
    creation was to house all vehicle programs under one roof. Customers
      and vendors can come to a single place within the Federal Supply
   Service to satisfy the Federal Government's vehicle needs. The joining
      of those offices has expanded our sphere of influence to be a $2
     billion business. This includes average vehicle procurements of the
      Automotive Division of $1 Billion for the Federal Government, and
     management of a fleet of over 165,000 vehicles for Federal agencies
                    within the Fleet Management Division.
       The Office of Vehicle Acquisition and Leasing Services provides
    customer agencies with quality vehicles and management services while
        offering low prices and lease rates. Consolidating agencies'
   requirements enables us to offer customers substantial savings. All the
   same great products and services you have to come to rely on are still
      there for you. This office offers a wide variety of vehicles, and
     contracts with all major manufacturers. Whether you need to buy or
     lease the Office of Vehicle Acquisition and Leasing Services has it
                                    all.
