http://www.waeb.uscourts.gov/WAEB/CourtInfo.nsf/2ed969c9d617364688256970007fdb70/0203e18222dcae67882569c8007c8e69?OpenDocument

   [actn020.gif] Home [actn142.gif] Back to List
     __________________________________________________________________

   Eastern District of WashingtonPublic Information Series

   Subject:                Contact:                           Date Posted:
   Discharge in Bankruptcy Automation Dept. 509.353.2404 x219 01/02/2001

   Public Information Series of the Bankruptcy Judges Division
   From an individual debtor' standpoint, one of the primary goals of
   filing a bankruptcy case is to obtain relief from burdensome debt.ยน
   Relief is attained through the bankruptcy discharge, the purpose of
   which is to provide a "fresh start" to the honest debtor.

   While the information presented herein is accurate as of the date of
   publication, it should not be cited or relied upon as legal authority.
   This information should not be used as a substitute for reference to
   the United States Bankruptcy Code (title 11, United States Code) and
   the Bankruptcy rules, both of which may be reviewed at local libraries,
   or to any local rules of practice adopted and disseminated by each
   bankruptcy court. Finally, this fact sheet should not substitute for
   the advice of competent legal counsel. For additional copies of this
   publication, please contact the Bankruptcy Judges Division,
   Administrative Office of the United States Courts (202) 502-1900.

   The bankruptcy discharge varies depending on the type of case a debtor
   files: chapter 7, 11, 12, or 13. This Public Information Series
   pamphlet attempts to answer some basic questions about the discharge
   available to individual debtors under all four chapters including:
   What is a discharge in bankruptcy?
   When does the discharge occur?
   How does the debtor get a discharge?
   Are all the debtor's debts discharged?
   Does the debtor have a right to a discharge or can creditors object to
   the discharge?
   Can the debtor receive a second discharge in a later chapter 7 case?
   Can the discharge be revoked?
   May the debtor pay a discharged debt after the bankruptcy case has been
   concluded?
   What can the debtor do if a creditor attempts to collect a discharged
   debt after the case is concluded?
   Can an employer terminate a debtor's employment solely because the
   person was a debtor or failed to repay a discharged debt?
   How can further bankruptcy information be obtained ?
   What is a discharge in bankruptcy?
   Under the federal bankruptcy statute, a discharge is a release of the
   debtor from personal liability for certain specified types of debts. In
   other words, the debtor is no longer required by law to pay any debts
   that are discharged. The discharge operates as a permanent order
   directed to the creditors of the debtor that they refrain from taking
   any form of collection action on discharged debts, including legal
   action and communications with the debtor, such as telephone calls,
   letters, and personal contacts.
   Although a debtor is relieved of personal liability for all debts that
   are discharged, a valid lien (i.e., a charge upon specific property to
   secure payment of a debt) that has not been avoided (i.e., made
   unenforceable) in the bankruptcy case will remain after the bankruptcy
   case. Therefore, a secured creditor may enforce the lien to recover the
   property secured by the lien.
   When does the discharge occur?
   The timing of the discharge varies, depending on the chapter under
   which the case is filed. In a chapter 7 (liquidation) case, for
   example, the court usually grants the discharge promptly on expiration
   of the time fixed for filing a complaint objecting to discharge and the
   time fixed for filing a motion to dismiss the case for substantial
   abuse (60 days following the first date set for the meeting of
   creditors). Typically, this occurs about four months after the date the
   debtor files the petition with the clerk of the bankruptcy court. In
   chapter 11 (reorganization) cases, the discharge occurs upon
   confirmation of a chapter 11 plan. In cases under chapter 12
   (adjustment of debts of a family farmer) and 13 (adjustment of debts of
   an individual with regular income), the court grants the discharge as
   soon as practicable after the debtor completes all payments under the
   plan. Since a chapter 12 or chapter 13 plan may provide for payments to
   be made over three to five years, the discharge typically occurs about
   four years after the date of filing.
   How does the debtor get a discharge?

   Unless there is litigation involving objections to the discharge, the
   debtor will automatically receive a discharge. The Federal Rules of
   Bankruptcy Procedure provide for the clerk of the bankruptcy court to
   mail a copy of the order of discharge to all creditors, the United
   States trustee, the trustee in the case, and the trustee's attorney, if
   any. The debtor and the debtor's attorney also receive copies of the
   order of discharge. The order of discharge is not specific as to those
   debts determined by the court to be non dischargeable, i.e., not
   covered by the discharge. The order of discharge informs creditors
   generally that the debts owed to them have been discharged and that
   they should not attempt any further collection. They are cautioned in
   the order that continuing collection efforts could subject them to
   punishment for contempt. Any inadvertent failure on the part of the
   clerk to send the debtor or any creditor a copy of the discharge order
   promptly within the time required by the rules does not affect the
   validity of the order granting the discharge.

   Are all of the debtor's debts discharged or only some?

   Not all debts are discharged. The debts discharged vary under each
   chapter of the Bankruptcy Code. Section 523(a) of the Code specifically
   excepts various categories of debts from the discharge granted to
   individual debtors. Therefore, the debtor must still repay those debts
   after bankruptcy. Congress has determined that these types of debts are
   not dischargeable for public policy reasons (based either on the nature
   of the debt or the fact that the debts were incurred due to improper
   behavior of the debtor, such as the debtor's drunken driving).
   There are 18 categories of debt excepted from discharge under chapters
   7, 11, and 12. A more limited list of exceptions applies to cases under
   chapter 13. Generally speaking, the exceptions to discharge apply
   automatically if the language prescribed by section 523(a) applies. The
   most common types of non-dischargeable debts are certain types of tax
   claims, debts not included by the debtor on the lists and schedules the
   debtor must file with the court, debts for spousal or child support or
   alimony, debts for willful and malicious injuries to person or
   property, debts to governmental units for fines and penalties, debts
   for most government funded or guaranteed educational loans or benefit
   overpayments, debts for personal injury caused by the debtor's
   operation of a motor vehicle while intoxicated, and debts for certain
   condominium or cooperative housing fees.
   The types of debts described in sections 523(a)(2), (4), (6), and (15)
   (obligations affected by fraud or maliciousness or certain debts
   incurred in connection with property settlements arising out of a
   separation agreement or divorce decree) are not automatically excepted
   from discharge. Creditors must ask the court to determine that these
   debts are excepted from discharge. In the absence of an affirmative
   request by the creditor and subsequent granting of the request by the
   court, the types of debts set out in sections 523(a)(2), (4), (6), and
   (15) will be discharged.
   A broader discharge of debts is available to a debtor in a chapter 13
   case than in a chapter 7 case. As a general rule, the chapter 13 debtor
   is discharged from all debts provided for by the plan except certain
   long-term obligations (such as a home mortgage), debts for alimony or
   child support, debts for most government funded or guaranteed
   educational loans or benefit overpayments, debts arising from death or
   personal injury caused by driving while intoxicated or under the
   influence of drugs, and debts for restitution or a criminal fine
   included in a sentence on the debtor's conviction of a crime. Although
   a chapter 13 debtor generally receives a discharge only after
   completing all payments required by the court-approved (i.e.,
   "confirmed") repayment plan, there are some limited circumstances under
   which the debtor may request the court to grant a "hardship discharge"
   even though the debtor has failed to complete plan payments. Such a
   discharge is available only to a debtor whose failure to complete plan
   payments is due to circumstances beyond the debtor's control.
   The scope of a chapter 13 "hardship discharge" is similar to that in a
   chapter 7 case with regard to the types of debts that are excepted from
   the discharge. A hardship discharge also is available in chapter 12 if
   the failure to complete plan payments is due to "circumstances for
   which the debtor should not justly be held accountable."

   Does the debtor have the right to a discharge or can creditors object
   to the discharge?

   In chapter 7 cases, the debtor does not have an absolute right to a
   discharge. An objection to the debtor's discharge may be filed by a
   creditor, by the trustee in the case, or by the United States trustee.
   Creditors receive a notice shortly after the case is filed that sets
   forth important information, including the deadline for objecting to
   the discharge. A creditor who desires to object to the debtor's
   discharge must do so by filing a complaint in the bankruptcy court
   before the deadline set out in the notice. Filing of a complaint starts
   a lawsuit referred to in bankruptcy as an "adversary proceeding." A
   chapter 7 discharge may be denied for any of the reasons described in
   section 727(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, including the transfer or
   concealment of property with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
   creditors; destruction or concealment of books or records; perjury and
   other fraudulent acts; failure to account for the loss of assets;
   violation of a court order; or an earlier discharge in a chapter 7 or
   11 case commenced within six years before the date the petition was
   filed. If the issue of the debtor's right to a discharge goes to trial,
   the objecting party has the burden of proving all the facts essential
   to the objection.
   In chapter 12 and chapter 13 cases, the debtor is entitled to a
   discharge upon completion of all payments under the plan. The
   Bankruptcy Code does not provide grounds for objecting to the discharge
   of a chapter 12 or chapter 13 debtor. Creditors can object to
   confirmation of the repayment plan, but cannot object to the discharge
   if the debtor has completed making plan payments.

   Can a debtor receive a second discharge in a later chapter 7 case?

   A discharge will be denied in a later chapter 7 case if the debtor has
   been granted a discharge under chapter 7 or chapter 11 in a case filed
   within six years before the second petition is filed. The debtor will
   also be denied a chapter 7 discharge if he or she previously was
   granted a discharge in a chapter 12 or chapter 13 case filed within six
   years before the date of the filing of the second case unless (1) all
   the "allowed unsecured" claims in the earlier case were paid in full,
   or (2) payments under the plan in the earlier case totaled at least 70
   percent of the allowed unsecured claims and the debtor's plan was
   proposed in good faith and the payments represented the debtor's best
   effort.

   Can the discharge be revoked?

   A discharge can be revoked under certain circumstances. For instance, a
   trustee, creditor, or the United States trustee may request that the
   court revoke the debtor's discharge in a chapter 7 case based on
   allegations that the debtor obtained the discharge fraudulently; the
   debtor failed to disclose the fact that he or she acquired or became
   entitled to acquire property that would constitute property of the
   bankruptcy estate; or the debtor committed one of several acts of
   impropriety described in section 727(a)(6) of the Bankruptcy Code.
   Typically, a request to revoke the debtor's discharge must be filed
   within one year after the granting of the discharge or, in some cases,
   before the date that the case is closed. It is up to the court to
   determine whether such allegations are true and, if so, to revoke the
   discharge.
   In a chapter 13 case, if confirmation of a plan or the discharge is
   obtained through fraud, the court can revoke the order of confirmation
   or discharge.

   May the debtor pay a discharged debt after the bankruptcy case has been
   concluded?

   A debtor who has received a discharge may voluntarily repay any
   discharged debt. A debtor may repay a discharged debt even though it
   can no longer be legally enforced. Sometimes a debtor agrees to repay a
   debt because it is owed to a family member or because it represents an
   obligation to an individual for whom the debtor's reputation is
   important, such as a family doctor.

   What can the debtor do if a creditor attempts to collect a discharged
   debt after the case is concluded?

   If a creditor attempts collection efforts on a discharged debt, the
   debtor can file a motion with the court reporting the action and asking
   that the case be reopened to address the matter. The bankruptcy court
   will often do so to ensure that the discharge is not violated. The
   discharge constitutes a permanent statutory injunction prohibiting
   creditors from taking any action, including the filing of a lawsuit,
   designed to collect a discharged debt. A creditor can be sanctioned by
   the court for violating the discharge injunction. The normal sanction
   for violating the discharge injunction is civil contempt, which is
   often punishable by a fine.

   Can an employer terminate a debtor's employment solely because the
   person was a debtor or failed to repay a discharged debt?

   The law provides express prohibitions against discriminatory treatment
   of debtors by both governmental units and private employers. A
   governmental unit or private employer may not discriminate against a
   person solely because the person was a debtor, was insolvent before or
   during the case, or has not paid a debt that was discharged in the
   case. The law prohibits the following forms of governmental
   discrimination: terminating an employee; discriminating with respect to
   hiring; or denying, revoking, suspending, or declining to renew a
   license, franchise, or similar privilege. A private employer may not
   discriminate with respect to employment if the discrimination is based
   solely upon the bankruptcy filing.

   How can further bankruptcy information be obtained?

   The Bankruptcy Judges Division, Administrative Office of the United
   States Courts, has other Public Information Series pamphlets on
   bankruptcy that are available by calling (202)502-1900. The Division,
   however, does not provide legal advice on bankruptcy filings. Specific
   questions about how to file for bankruptcy or advice concerning a
   bankruptcy case should be sought through competent legal counsel.

   ยน This Public Information Series pamphlet addresses the discharge only
   as it applies to individual debtors and joint debtors (husband and
   wife).

   [0.56E?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   File for Download:
   File Type: Adobe Acrobat

   Attachment:

   File Size: KBytes

   [0.AEA?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   WAEB CourtinfoEastern District of Washington
