http://winds.jpl.nasa.gov/news/tropical_cyclones.html


   JPL Navbar JPL Home Earth Solar System Stars & Galaxies Technology
   JPL Navbar

   Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds from Space
   Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds from Space Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds
                                           from Space

   Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds from Space
   Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds from Space


   Winds: Measuring Ocean Winds from Space

   Home Sitemap



   News - Seawinds Casts a Closer Eye on Tropical Cyclones


   Seawinds data on surface winds, Sept. 2001
   Seawinds data on surface winds, Sept. 2001

      In a new NASA-funded study, researchers have dramatically improved the
      warning time for tropical cyclone development in the Atlantic and
      Eastern Pacific hurricane basins. Using satellite data to access a
      combination of the spin of the atmosphere and wind speed data,
      researchers were able to detect potential tropical cyclones more than
      40 hours earlier than with traditional methods, giving more time for
      warnings and preparation.

      Researchers from Florida State University's Center for
      Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies used data from the Quick
      Scatterometer, a satellite managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
      Pasadena, Calif., and the Seawinds instrument, built by JPL. The
      researchers detected the formation of systems that might become
      tropical cyclones prior to their being classified as tropical
      depressions by the National Hurricane Center. This new method is based
      on signals from the scatterometer-derived vorticity field, which
      highlights areas of rotating winds.

      Tropical cyclones are also known as tropical depressions, tropical
      storms or hurricanes, depending on their wind speed. The National
      Hurricane Center uses criteria other than vorticity, such as persistent
      and organized thunderstorm activity, before it classifies a system as a
      tropical cyclone. In this study researchers used only the wind field
      data that is often present prior to the other criteria. Early detection
      of these systems will help determine those that warrant further
      examination by more traditional methods, and allow investigators to
      study the genesis of tropical cyclones by watching the full development
      of a storm from its very beginning.

      "Earlier detection of potential tropical cyclones would give the public
      and maritime interests more time to prepare for a potential future
      threat," stated Ryan Sharp, co-author of the study and a researcher at
      Florida State University's Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction
      Studies. "Advanced detection will also allow scientists more time to
      plan research missions into storms."

      The objective technique used by the researchers to detect tropical
      cyclones was established by using data collected during the 1999
      Atlantic hurricane season. This technique was then applied to the
      near-real-time (less than 3-hour delay) data for the 2001 Atlantic and
      Eastern Pacific hurricane seasons to detect systems that had the
      potential to become tropical cyclones.

      Of the 17 tropical cyclones that developed in the Atlantic in 2001,
      eight were detected an average of 43 hours before they were classified
      by the National Hurricane Center. Some of the systems detected by this
      method (35 to 40 percent) never developed into tropical cyclones, but
      by using conventional methods of detection such as clouds in satellite
      pictures, researchers could eliminate most of these "false alarms"
      early in the study.

      The results obtained by using the scatterometer in the Eastern Pacific,
      however, are more impressive and critical. With fewer weather stations
      and search aircraft, the use of the scatterometer can greatly improve
      tropical cyclone identification and prediction. Using the technique in
      this study, of the 17 tropical cyclones that formed in the Eastern
      Pacific, 14 were identified an average of 42 hours before they were
      classified as tropical cyclones by the National Hurricane Center. For a
      system developing close to land, this earlier prediction could mean the
      difference between life and death for those living in the region.

      The Seawinds instrument is a specialized microwave radar that measures
      the speed and direction of winds near the ocean surface. Launched June
      19, 1999, from California's Vandenberg Air Force Base, it operates in a
      Sun-synchronous, 803-kilometer (497-mile) near-polar orbit, circling
      Earth every 100 minutes, taking approximately 400,000 measurements over
      90 percent of Earth's surface each day.

      JPL manages the Quick Scatterometer satellite for NASA's Office of
      Earth Science, Washington, D.C. JPL also built the Seawinds
      scatterometer instrument and provides ground science processing
      systems. NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md., managed
      development of the satellite, designed and built by Ball Aerospace &
      Technology Corp., Boulder, Colo. NASA's Earth Science Enterprise is a
      long-term research and technology program designed to examine Earth's
      land, oceans, atmosphere, ice and life as a total integrated system.

      The Office of Naval Research, Secretary of the Navy Grant to Dr. James
      J. O'Brien at Florida State University, provided additional funding for
      this study.

      Further information on Seawinds and Quick Scatterometer may be found
      at:

      http://winds.jpl.nasa.gov/missions/quikscat/quikindex.html

      JPL is a division of the California Institute of Technology in
      Pasadena.
