http://www.calcarenet.ca.gov/continuous_med_care_facs.asp


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   California Care Network Home
                   Residential Care
                   Medical Care
                   Mental Health Care
                   Alcohol & Drug Treatment Services
                   In-Home Health / Medical Care Services
                   Adult Day Service Centers
                   Home and Community Services
                   Search for a Facility
                   Checklists and Guides
                   Links



   California Care Network




   Medical Care Facilities

   The California Department of Health Services licenses and certifies
   Medical Care Facilities. These facilities provide skilled nursing care
   on a continuous and/or intermittent basis. Patients residing in these
   facilities receive care and treatment for their chronic illnesses,
   temporary medical conditions and developmental disabilities.

   Descriptions of Medical Care Facilities

      Congregate Living Health Facility (CLHF)
   Facility Search

   A residential home with a capacity of no more than six beds, which
   provides 24-hour skilled nursing and supportive care. This care is
   generally less intense than that provided in general acute care
   hospitals but more intense than that provided in skilled nursing
   facilities.

   Congregate living health facilities provide at least one of the
   following services:
     * Services for persons who are mentally alert, physically disabled
       persons, who may be ventilator dependent.
     * Services for persons who have a diagnosis of terminal illness and a
       life expectancy of six months or less.
     * Services for persons who are catastrophically and severely
       disabled.

      Intermediate Care Facility (ICF)
   Facility Search

   A health facility that provides inpatient care to ambulatory or
   nonambulatory patients who have a recurring need for skilled nursing
   supervision and need supportive care.

   Intermediate Care Facility for the Developmentally Disabled (ICF/DD)
   Facility Search A facility which provides:
     * 24-hour nursing and personal care
     * treatment to promote the patient's ability to become as independent
       as possible
     * developmental, and supportive health services

   These facilities provide care to the developmentally disabled persons
   who have an intermittent need for nursing services.

   Intermediate Care Facility for the Developmentally Disabled -
   Habilitative (ICF/DD-H)
   Facility Search

   A facility with a capacity of 4 to 15 beds which provides:
     * 24-hour personal care
     * treatment to promote the patient's ability to become as independent
       as possible
     * developmental and supportive health services

   These facilities are usually in a residential setting and provide care
   to developmentally disabled persons who have an intermittent recurring
   need for nursing services.

   Intermediate Care Facility for the Developmentally Disabled - Nursing
   (ICF/DD-N)
   Facility Search

   A facility with a capacity of 4 to 15 beds which provides:
     * 24-hour personal care
     * treatment to promote the patient's ability to become as independent
       as possible
     * developmental and nursing services

   These facilities are usually in a residential setting and provide care
   to medically fragile persons with developmental disabilities and an
   intermittent recurring need for nursing services.

   Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF)
   Facility Search

   A health facility that provides skilled nursing care and supportive
   care to patients whose primary need is for skilled nursing care on an
   extended basis.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
