http://www.igeb.gov/glossary-ah.shtml

                          COMMON GPS RELATED TERMS

   This is a glossary of terms found in GPS related literature, and are
   presented as found. If you have suggestions for additions or
   alterations, please contact the IGEB Executive Secretariat at
   ExecSec@igeb.gov.

   Last update: November 22, 1999.

                         A thru H I thru P Q thru Z

   Absolute Positioning
          Positioning mode in which a position is identified with respect
          to a well-defined coordinate system, commonly a geocentric
          system (i.e., a system whose point of origin coincides with the
          center of mass of the earth).

   Accuracy
          The degree of conformance between the estimated or measured
          position, time, and/or velocity of a GPS receiver and its true
          time, position, and/or velocity as compared with a constant
          standard. Radionavigation system accuracy is usually presented
          as a statistical measure of system error and is characterized as
          follows:

          + Predictable - The accuracy of a radionavigation system's
            position solution with respect to the charted solution. Both
            the position solution and the chart must be based upon the
            same geodetic datum.
          + Repeatable - The accuracy with which a user can return to a
            position whose coordinates have been measured at a previous
            time with the same navigation system.
          + Relative - The accuracy with which a user can measure position
            relative to that of another user of the same navigation system
            at the same time.

   Almanac
          A data file that contains orbit information on all satellites,
          clock corrections, and atmospheric delay parameters. It is
          transmitted by each GPS satellite in order to facilitate rapid
          satellite vehicle acquisition by GPS receivers.

   Ambiguity
          The unknown number of whole carrier wavelengths between the
          between a GPS satellite and the receiver.

   Analog
          A type of transmission characterized by variable waveforms
          representing information, contrasted with digital. A clock with
          moving hands is an analog device, whereas a clock with
          electronically displayed numbers is a digital device. Modern
          computers are invariably digital, but when they communicate over
          telephone lines, their signals must be converted to analog form
          using a modem (a modulator/ demodulator). The analog signal is
          converted back to a digital form before being delivered to the
          destination computer.

   Anti-Spoofing
          Anti-spoofing (A-S) is the process whereby the P code used for
          the precise positioning service (PPS) is encrypted. The
          resulting encrypted code is known as the Y code. This encrypted
          code can be used only by receivers with decryption capability.

   Anywhere Fix
          The ability of a receiver to start position calculations without
          being given an approximate location and time.

   Apogee
          The point in the orbit of a satellite is the greatest distance
          from the center of the earth.

   Application Software
          These programs accomplish the specialized tasks of the user,
          while operating system software allows the computer to work. A
          computer-aided dispatch system is application software, as is
          each word processing program.

   Automatic Vehicle Location - AVL
          A type of system using any sort of technology to track or locate
          a vehicle.

   Availability
          The percentage of time that the services of a navigation system
          can be used within a particular coverage area. Signal
          availability is the percentage of time that navigational signals
          transmitted from external sources are available for use.
          Availability is a function of both the physical characteristics
          of the operational environment and the technical capabilities of
          the transmitter facilities.

   Bandwidth
          The range of frequencies in a signal.

   Baseline
          A baseline consists of the resultant three dimensional vector
          between a pair of stations for which simultaneous GPS data is
          collected.

   Base Station
          A base station is a GPS receiver set up on a location with known
          position specifically to collect data for differentially
          correcting data of other GPS receivers. Base station data is
          used to calculate error relative to its known position. The
          relative difference between the base stations known position and
          the position calculated from GPS satellite signals become the
          correction factor for other GPS receivers collecting data during
          the same time period. Correction can be transmitted in
          real-time, or used during later post-processing. Also called a
          reference station.

   Block I, II, IIR, IIF Satellites
          The various generations of GPS satellites: Block I were
          prototype satellites that began launch in 1978; Block II
          satellites were used to populate the 24 operation slots in the
          NAVSTAR constellation; Block IIR are replenishment satellites;
          and Block IIF refers to the follow-on generation.

   C/A Code
          The coarse/acquisition (or clear/acquisition) code modulated
          onto the GPS L1 signal. This code is a sequence of 1023
          pseudorandom binary biphase modulations on the GPS carrier at a
          chipping rate of 1.023 MHz, thus having a code repetition period
          of 1 millisecond. The code was selected to provide good
          acquisition properties. Also known as the "civilian code."

   Carrier
          A radio wave having at least one characteristic, such as
          frequency, amplitude or phase, that may be varied from a known
          reference value by modulation.

   Carrier-Aided Tracking
          A signal processing strategy that uses the GPS carrier signal to
          achieve an exact lock on the pseudorandom code.

   Carrier Frequency
          The frequency of the unmodulated fundamental output of a radio
          transmitter. The GPS L1 carrier frequency , for example, is
          1575.42 MHz.

   Carrier Phase
          GPS measurements based on the L1 or L2 carrier signal.

   Cartesian/Geocentric Coordinates
          A system of defining position which has its origin at the center
          of the earth with the x- and y-axes in the plane of the equator.
          Typically, the x-axis passes through the meridian of Greenwich,
          and the z-axis coincided with the earths axis of rotation.

   Channel
          A channel of a GPS receiver consists of the circuitry necessary
          to receive the signal from a single GPS satellite.

   Chip
          The length of time to transmit either a "0" or a "1" in a binary
          pulse code. Also, an integrated circuit.

   Chip rate
          Number of chips per second. For example, C/A code = 1.023 MHz.

   Circular Error Probable - CEP
          In a circular normal distribution, the radius of the circle
          containing 50 percent of the individual measurements being made,
          or the radius of the circle within which there is a 50 percent
          probability of being located.

   Clock bias
          The difference between the clock's indicated time and true
          universal time.

   Clock Offset
          Constant difference in the time reading between two clocks.

   Code Division Multiple Access - CDMA
          A method of frequency reuse whereby many radios use the same
          frequency but each one has a unique code. GPS uses CDMA
          techniques with Gold's codes for their unique cross-correlation
          properties.

   Code Phase GPS
          GPS measurements based on the pseudo random code (C/A or P) as
          opposed to the carrier of that code.

   Control Point
          A point at which coordinates have been assigned. These
          coordinates can be held fixed and used in other dependent
          surveys

   Control Segment
          A world-wide network of GPS monitor and control stations that
          ensure the accuracy of satellite positions and their clocks.

   Coordinate System
          One of a number of mapping systems used to represent positions.
          Examples are latitude/longitude and state plane.

   Cycle Slip
          A discontinuity in the measured carrier beat phase resulting
          from a temporary loss-of-lock in the carrier tracking loop of a
          GPS receiver.

   Data Message
          A message included in the GPS signal which reports the
          satellite's location, clock corrections and health. Included is
          rough information about the other satellites in the
          constellation.

   Datum
          A datum is a horizontal or vertical reference system for making
          survey measurements and computations. Horizontal datums are
          typically referred to as ellipsoids, the State Plane Coordinate
          System, or the Universal Transverse Mercator Grid System.
          Vertical datums are typically referred to as the geoid.
          Improving technology has led to more precise values for the same
          geographic points over time; to use recently collected data in
          conjunction with preexisting data, it is necessary to match
          datum and coordinate systems between the data sets. Some
          examples of datums are NAD-27 and WGS-84 (North American Datum
          1927, World Geodetic System 1984).

   Differential GPS - DGPS
          A technique used to improve positioning or navigation accuracy
          by determining the positioning error at a known location and
          subsequently incorporating a differential correction factor (by
          real-time transmission of corrections or by postprocessing) into
          the position calculations of another receiver operating in the
          same area and simultaneously tracking the same satellites.

   Differential Correction
          A process for canceling out man-made and natural errors in the
          GPS signal. Requires the use of another GPS receiver set up on a
          position with known location. The receiver on the known location
          computes its location with the GPS satellite data and compares
          this position with the known value for its actual, known,
          position. This difference (hence differential) is the error in
          the transmitted GPS signal. The differential value is then used
          for correcting, either in real-time or during post processing,
          the positions collected by other GPS receivers during the same
          time period, observing the same satellites.

   Digital
          Generally, information is expressed, stored and transmitted by
          either analog or digital means. In a digital form, this
          information is seen in a binary state as either a one or a zero,
          a plus or a minus. The computer uses digital technology for most
          actions.

   Dilution of Precision - DOP
          A description of the purely geometrical contribution to the
          uncertainty in a position fix. Standard terms for the GPS
          application are: GDOP: Geometric ( 3 position coordinates plus
          clock offset in the solution) PDOP: Position (3 coordinates)
          HDOP: Horizontal (2 horizontal coordinates) VDOP: Vertical
          (height only) TDOP: Time (clock offset only) RDOP: Relative
          (normalized to 60 seconds).

   Distance Root Mean Square - drms
          The root-mean-square value of the distances from the true
          location point of the position fixes in a collection of
          measurements. As typically used in GPS positioning, 2 drms is
          the radius of a circle that contains at least 95 percent of all
          possible fixes that can be obtained with a system at any one
          place.

   Dithering
          The deliberate introduction of digital noise. This is the
          process the DoD used to add inaccuracy to GPS signals to induce
          Selective Availability.

   Doppler-Aiding
          A signal processing strategy that uses a measured doppler shift
          to help the receiver smoothly track the GPS signal. Allows more
          precise velocity and position measurement.

   Doppler Shift
          The apparent change in the frequency of a signal caused by the
          relative motion of the transmitter and receiver.

   Earth-Centered Earth-Fixed - ECEF
          Cartesian coordinate system where the X direction is the
          intersection of the prime meridian (Greenwich) with the equator.
          The vectors rotate with the earth. Z is the direction of the
          spin axis.

   Eccentricity
          The ratio of the distance from the center of an ellipse to its
          foci on the semimajor axis.

   Elevation
          The height above a point of reference. For Example, height above
          mean sea level, or vertical distance above the geoid.

   Elevation Mask Angle
          Usually a user definable angle (in degrees) below which a
          satellite will be tracked, but not used as a data source for
          position calculations. This value is set to avoid interference
          problems caused by ionospheric refraction, multipath errors ,
          obstructions such as buildings and trees, etc.

   Ellipsoid
          In geodesy, a mathematical figure formed by revolving an ellipse
          about its minor axis. It is often used interchangeably with
          spheroid. Two quantities define an ellipsoid, the length of the
          semimajor axis, a, and the flattening, f = (a - b)/a, where b is
          the length of the semiminor axis. Prolate and triaxial
          ellipsoids are always described as such.

   Ellipsoid Height
          The measure of vertical distance above the ellipsoid. Not the
          same as elevation above sea level.

   Ephemeris
          The predictions of current satellite positions transmitted to
          the user in the data message. A list of accurate positions or
          locations of a celestial object as a function of time. Available
          as "broadcast ephemeris" or as postprocessed "precise
          ephemeris."

   Epoch
          Measurement interval or data frequency, as in making
          observations every 15 seconds.

   Fast-Multiplexing Channel
          see Fast-switching channel

   Fast-Switching Channel
          A single channel which rapidly samples a number of satellite
          ranges. "Fast" means that the switching time is sufficiently
          fast (2 to 5 milliseconds) to recover the data message.

   Frequency Band
          A particular range of frequencies in a region of the
          electromagnetic spectrum.

   Frequency Spectrum
          The distribution of signal amplitudes as a function of frequency
          of the constituent signal waves.

   Geodesy
          The science related to the determination of the size and shape
          of the Earth (geoid) by direct measurements.

   Geodetic Datum
          A mathematical model designed to best fit part or all of the
          geoid. It is defined by an ellipsoid and the relationship
          between the ellipsoid and a point on the topographic surface
          established as the origin of datum.

   Geodetic Surveys
          Global surveys done to establish control networks (comprised of
          reference or control points) as a basis for accurate land
          mapping.

   Geoid
          The particular equipotential surface that coincides with mean
          sea level and that may be imagined to extend through the
          continents. This surface is everywhere perpendicular to the
          force of gravity.

   Geoid Height
          The height above the geoid is often called elevation above mean
          sea level.

   Geometric Dilution of Precision (GDOP)
          see Dilution of Precision

   Global Navigation Satellite System - GLONASS
          The Russian equivalent to the American NAVSTAR GPS. GLONASS was
          designed to provide worldwide coverage. GLONASS has three
          orbital planes containing eight satellites each, when all slots
          are filled. GLONASS satellites are failing at a much higher rate
          than they are being replenished, leaving the system operating a
          diminishing capacity.

   Global Navigation Satellite System - GNSS
          Organizing concept of a system that would incorporate GPS,
          GLONASS, and other space-based and ground-based segments to
          support all forms of navigation.

   Global Positioning System - GPS
          A DOD conceived, implemented and operated constellation of 24
          satellites orbiting the earth at a nominal altitude of 11,000
          miles. GPS satellites transmit signals that allow the accurate
          determination of GPS receiver locations. Receivers can be
          located at fixed locations, moving on the earths surface, in the
          earths atmosphere, or in low-Earth orbit. GPS is used in air,
          land and sea navigation, mapping, surveying and other
          applications where precise positioning is necessary. The GPS
          signal is provided free of charge to anyone on or near the
          planet with a GPS receiver and an unobstructed view of the
          satellites.

   GPS ICD-200
          The GPS Interface Control Document is a government document that
          contains the full technical description of the interface between
          the satellites and the user.

   Handover Word
          The word in the GPS message that contains synchronization
          information for the transfer of tracking from the C/A to the P
          -code.

   Hardware
          The physical components of a system that uses coded instructions
          to accomplish a task or operation. Reference is often made to
          computer "hardware" and "software"; in that context, "hardware"
          consists of the computer (case, motherboard, etc) input and
          output devices and other peripheral equipment.

                         A thru H I thru P Q thru Z
            _____________________________________________________

               INTERAGENCY GPS
               [logo]
               EXECUTIVE BOARD

                                 IGEB Executive Secretariat
                              4800B Herbert C. Hoover Building
                              Washington, D.C. 20230
                              Phone: (202) 482-5809
                              Fax: (202) 501-4178
                              ExecSec@igeb.gov
            _____________________________________________________
