http://www-afrd.lbl.gov/AFRD_ISM_2001.pdf

   AFRD ISM Plan Accelerator and Fusion Research Division Ernest Orlando
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 1 -
   Accelerator and Fusion Research Division Integrated Safety Management
   Plan Contents Accountability 3 Contractors 6 Matrixed Personnel 7 Heavy
   Ion Fusion Virtual National Laboratory Safety Plan 10 Scope of Work 14
   Operations and Work Authorization 14 Qualification 16 Training 16
   Funding of EH&S Requirements 17 Resources 17 Validation, Feedback and
   Improvement 17 Review and Approval 18 Appendices Estimated EH&S Support
   of AFRD 19 AFRD Self-Assessment Performance Measures 20 QUEST Program
   Guide 31 How To Use This Guide 32 QUEST Description 33 Team Roster 41
   ES&H/QA Concerns 43 ES&H Checklists 47 Quality Assurance and Quality
   Improvement 60 AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 2 - Accelerator and Fusion
   Research Division Integrated Safety Management Plan AFRD will conduct
   all of its operations in a manner that protects the health and safety
   of employees and the general public and that does not endanger the
   environment, as defined by the Laboratory's EH&S policies and
   requirements contained in the Regulations and Procedures Manual (RPM),
   PUB-3000, and the Berkeley Lab Integrated EH&S Management Plan (ISMS).
   This Plan has been established to assist in ensuring that the
   Division's ES&H objectives are met. Accountability The Division
   Director is responsible and accountable for assuring that all AFRD
   activities are carried out in a safe manner, in accordance with all
   Laboratory requirements. The AFRD ES&H Coordinator oversees the
   Division ES&H program, including review of Activity Hazard Documents
   (AHDs). The AFRD ES&H Administrator is responsible for the day-to-day
   functioning of the ES&H program. The structure and function of AFRD's
   safety organization is illustrated in Figure 1 and described in detail
   in Appendix 3, the QUEST Program Guide. The AFRD ES&H Committee is
   headed by the Division Director, and includes the Deputies, ES&H
   Coordinator, ES&H Administrator, Program Heads from each of the
   designated research programs, leaders of major projects, and
   Program/Project ES&H Coordinators. The AFRD ES&H Committee discusses
   ES&H problem areas and suggests improvements to the QUEST
   self-assessment program. The AFRD ES&H Operations Committee consists of
   the ES&H Coordinator, ES&H Administrator, and Program/Project ES&H
   Coordinators. The ES&H Operations Committee discusses ES&H concerns of
   the programs and projects, lessons learned from them, and information
   on lab-wide ES&H issues. AFRD ALS Accelerator Physics Program safety
   issues are coordinated through the ALS Division safety committee. The
   AFRD ES&H Administrator attends ALS Division safety committee meetings.
   The EH&S Liaison is invited to the meetings of the AFRD ES&H Committee
   and Operations Committee. The EH&S Liaison provides technical support
   to AFRD operations and coordinates requests for additional EH&S
   services. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 3 - Figure 1, AFRD Environment,
   Safety, & Health Organization After
   http://www-afrd.lbl.gov/AFRD_ES&H_OrgChart.ppt the PowerPoint
   organization chart that is the version of record. AFRD ISM Plan June
   2001 - 4 - Program Heads and Project Leaders are responsible for
   establishing, implementing, and maintaining effective ES&H procedures
   for their Programs/Projects and ensuring correction of ES&H
   deficiencies on a timely basis. All Program Heads and Project Leaders
   are expected to: * Provide leadership and encourage participation in
   the ES&H activities of their Program/Project. Conduct at least one
   documented Program/Project all-hands meeting annually where safety is
   discussed; * Conduct at least one documented safety walkthrough of
   their work spaces annually; * Communicate regularly with their
   Program/Project ES&H Coordinator and maintain awareness of their
   Program/Project ES&H performance. Each Program Head appoints one or
   more Program ES&H Coordinators. (The Laser Plasma Program and AMAC
   Program are represented by the Center for Beam Physics ES&H
   Coordinator. The ALS Division ES&H Coordinator serves as the ES&H
   Coordinator for the ALS Accelerator Physics Program.) In most Programs,
   this position is a part-time responsibility for a senior researcher or
   engineer. Projects appoint an ES&H Coordinator when significant
   fabrication and experimental work begins. (The DARHT and LHC Project
   Leaders have appointed Project ES&H Coordinators. SNS is represented by
   Ion Beam Technology.) Program/Project ES&H Coordinators are expected
   to: * Participate in AFRD ES&H Operations Committee activities; *
   Inform the Committee of planned activities in their Program/Project and
   assist in hazard review and work authorization activities; * Organize
   QUEST teams and report findings to the Committee; * Report any
   accidents, occurrences, hazardous conditions, or concerns that require
   action and report completion of action items; * Communicate relevant
   ES&H information to their Program Head, Project Leaders, and other
   affected personnel. The Programs are further divided into Groups
   concentrating on certain areas of operations and/or research. Each
   Group is headed by a Group Leader who reports to the Program Head and
   is responsible for ensuring that work performed by members of the group
   is conducted in accordance with applicable ES&H programs, procedures,
   and requirements. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 5 - All supervisors
   (including Principal Investigators) are responsible for ensuring work
   is planned considering ES&H risks, all assigned personnel are trained
   in ES&H responsibilities appropriate to the tasks performed, and work
   is performed in accordance with all applicable ES&H work authorizations
   and requirements. All supervisors are expected to: * Inform their
   Program/Project ES&H Coordinator of planned changes to work scope or
   hazards; * Review hazards and controls, determine authorization
   requirements, prepare required documentation, and ensure authorizations
   are approved before beginning work; * Exercise adequate ongoing
   oversight of work activities to maintain safe work conditions and
   practices. Conduct at least one documented safety walkthrough of work
   spaces annually. Report safety concerns to their Program/Project ES&H
   Coordinator; * Maintain safe and orderly work areas, including
   identifying and removing unused equipment from active work areas to
   storage areas whenever practical; * Provide a workplace safety
   orientation to newly assigned personnel; * Evaluate the training needs
   of assigned personnel whenever their job hazards change. Evaluate
   employee ES&H performance during the annual P2R review; * Ensure any
   accidents involving assigned personnel, whether on-site or off-site
   during official travel, are promptly reported to LBNL Health Services;
   * Participate in reviews of any accidents or occurrences involving
   assigned personnel. Ensure Supervisor's Accident Reports are completed
   promptly and accurately. Identify and perform appropriate corrective
   actions. All AFRD personnel (including AFRD employees, matrixed
   employees, visitors, temporary employees, students, and participating
   guests) are assigned to a QUEST self-assessment team, with the
   exception of short-term personnel. Persons whose participation in work
   activities at AFRD are anticipated to occur over a period of less than
   90 days may be included in QUEST team as determined by the Program
   Head. ALS accelerator physics personnel are assigned to ALS Division
   QUEST Circles. Each QUEST team has charge of self-assessment for the
   workspace of it members. All AFRD personnel are encouraged to report
   any workplace safety or environmental concerns to their supervisor. All
   accidents, on-site or off-site during official travel, must be reported
   to the supervisor and LBNL Health Services. All personnel are
   responsible for stopping any work activity considered an imminent
   danger, defined in Section 1.5 of Pub-3000 as any condition or practice
   that could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious injury, or
   environmental harm. Contractors Program Heads, Project Leaders, and
   supervisors (including Principal Investigators) take responsibility for
   the safety of contracted work by assuring qualified contractors are
   selected, hazards are identified, and work is performed safely. AFRD
   contractor oversight will comply with the requirements of the ISMS. In
   accordance with Chapter 10 of PUB-3000, the safety rights and
   obligations of contract employees are the same as those of LBNL
   employees. AFRD supervisors assigned to direct the work of contract
   employees must provide instruction and conditions equivalent to those
   provided to LBNL employees, and require the use of equivalent safety
   equipment. (Equipment may be provided by LBNL or the contractor, as
   specified in the contract.) Construction work must be authorized by
   LBNL Facilities. The safety and health of construction subcontractor
   employees is the responsibility of the construction subcontractor. AFRD
   ISM Plan June 2001 - 6 - Matrixed Personnel Technical and
   administrative personnel from other Divisions are matrixed to AFRD, and
   AFRD personnel are matrixed to other Divisions. Matrixed personnel are
   managed in accordance with the Berkeley Lab Matrix Protocols (Figure
   2). The Protocols replace the Memorandums of Understanding previously
   established between Divisions. Matrix customers, Home division
   supervisors, and matrixed employees talk to each other about job
   hazards and ES&H training requirements for the work to be done in the
   matrix assignment. It is the responsibility of the originating or
   approving engineer to ensure that design documents are processed in
   accordance with Engineering Division safety procedures. The Home
   Division is responsible to ensure that its employees are knowledgeable,
   and trained, as necessary, in the basic environment, safety and health
   policies and procedures of the Laboratory. Matrix customer supervisors
   may request specific or unique training for Matrix personnel assigned
   to their unit, and may provide on-the-job ES&H training specific to the
   assignment. Home division supervisors identify and develop appropriate
   training plans for matrixed personnel, including ensuring the matrixed
   employee's ES&H Training Profile requires training appropriate to the
   hazards of his/her current assignment. The Job Hazard Questionnaire or
   ES&H Training Profile for employees who are matrixed to or from AFRD
   must be signed by the employee, the Matrix division supervisor, and the
   Home division supervisor. The Matrix division supports matrixed
   employee ES&H training efforts through direct and indirect funding as
   established on an annual basis. The Home division is responsible for
   ensuring that ES&H training needs are met. The Matrix customer
   supervisor assigns the day to day work of the matrix employee and
   responds to assignment-related questions. For personnel matrixed to
   AFRD, AFRD is responsible for leadership in the ES&H aspects of
   day-to-day activities specific to the assignment. The Matrix customer
   refers matrixed employees to their Home division supervisor to address
   issues that are not directly related to the day to day tasks of the
   matrix assignment. The Matrix customer and Home division supervisors
   stay appropriately informed of and sensitive to employee issues that
   may be covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Home division
   supervisor stays in regular communication with both the Matrix customer
   supervisor and the matrixed employee. Throughout the assignment, the
   Matrix customer and Home division supervisor talk to each other about
   the employee's job performance. The Matrix customer supervisor provides
   timely information on performance problems to the Home division
   supervisor. The Home division supervisor requests the primary customer
   supervisor to complete the expectation section of P2R. The primary
   Matrix customer supervisor provides comments on performance
   expectations and submits them to the Home division supervisor. The Home
   division provides the P2R to the matrix customer for review,
   discussion, and comment. The employee prepares the Employee Worksheet
   and provides a copy to both the Matrix customer and the Home
   Supervisor. The Home division supervisor determines the final P2R
   rating. When the Home division supervisor has completed the P2R, the
   Matrix customer supervisor initials it, acknowledging having read the
   P2R. The Home division supervisor reviews the P2R with the employee.
   The employee addresses questions or issues related to the P2R to the
   Home division supervisor. The Matrix customer and Home division
   supervisor discuss corrective actions for performance issues relative
   to the matrix assignment. Performance issues or corrective actions that
   may be taken relative to matters outside the scope of the matrix
   assignment, e.g., conduct, may be discussed with Matrix customers on a
   need to know basis, e.g., when action taken affects delivery of service
   to the customer. The Home division determines and implements any
   disciplinary action or counseling needed. The matrixed employee
   interacts with the Home division management on issues related to
   corrective actions. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 7 - Figure 2. Draft
   Berkeley Lab Matrix Protocols 5/11/99 [C] Matrix customer [H] Home
   Supervisor [E] Employee [C1] Matrix customer and Home division [H1]
   Matrix customer and Home division [E1] supervisor discuss work to be
   done and supervisor discuss work to be done and manpower/staffing
   levels, as well as manpower/staffing levels, as well as movement of
   employees on and off movement of employees on and off assignments.
   assignments. [H2] Home division determines approach to meeting staffing
   needs, e.g., recruitment Staffing or reassignment. Matrix customers may
   participate in interview(s) of final candidate(s). Home division
   determines position description, classification and salary (ongoing).
   [C2] Throughout the assignment, the [H3] Throughout the assignment, the
   [E2] The employee prepares the Matrix customer and Home division Matrix
   customer and Home division Employee Worksheet and supervisor talk to
   each other about the supervisor talk to each other about the provides a
   copy to both the employee's job performance. The Matrix employee's job
   performance. Home Matrix customer and the Home customer shall provide
   timely supervisor requests primary customer to Supervisor. The employee
   information on performance problems to complete the expectation section
   of P2R. addresses questions or issues the Home division supervisor.
   Primary [H4] The home division provides the P2R related to the P2R to
   the Home matrix customer'(s) must complete to the matrix customer for
   review, division supervisor. expectation section of P2R and submit to
   discussion, and comment. Matrix customer Performance home supervisor.
   The primary matrix will initial P2R acknowledging having read customer
   reads the P2R and signs or the P2R. The home supervisor determines
   initials. the final P2R rating. Home division determines who will sit
   in the P2R discussions with employee. [C3] The Matrix customer and Home
   [H5] The Matrix customer and Home [E3] Employee interacts with division
   supervisor discuss corrective division supervisor discuss corrective
   line management (Home division) actions for performance issues relative
   to actions for performance issues relative to on issues related to
   corrective the matrix assignment. Corrective the matrix assignment.
   Performance issues actions. actions that may be taken relative to or
   corrective actions that may be taken matters outside the scope of the
   matrix relative to matters outside the scope of the assignment may be
   discussed with Matrix matrix assignment, e.g., conduct, may be
   customers on a need to know basis, e.g., discussed with Matrix
   customers on a need when action taken affects delivery of to know
   basis, e.g., when action taken service to the customer. affects
   delivery of service to the customer. Corrective Actions [H6] Home
   division determines and implements any disciplinary action or
   counseling needed. [C4] Matrix customer and Home division [H7] Matrix
   customer and Home division [E4] Employee discusses supervisor talk to
   each other about supervisor talk to each other about training
   performance planning and training requirements for the work to be
   requirements for the work to be done in the development with Home
   division done in the matrix assignment. Matrix matrix assignment.
   supervisor. customer may request specific or unique [H8] Home division
   identifies/develops training for Matrix personnel assigned to
   appropriate training plans to meet current their unit. and anticipated
   institutional and job specific resource requirements. Matrix Training
   divisions support these efforts through direct and indirect funding as
   established on an annual basis. The Home division is responsible for
   ensuring that EH&S training needs are met. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 8
   - [C] Matrix customer [H] Home Supervisor [E] Employee [C5] The Matrix
   customer assigns the [H9] The Home division supervisor stays [E5] The
   employee is the day to day work of the matrix employee in regular
   communication with both the primary resource that and responds to
   assignment-related Matrix customer and the employee. The delivers,
   collaborates, questions. Home division supervisor stays communicates
   and [C6] Matrix customer refers employee to appropriately informed of
   and sensitive to contributes a variety of Home division supervisor to
   address employee issues that may be covered by services to facilitate
   the issues that are not directly related to the collective bargaining
   agreements. scientific endeavors of the day to day tasks of the matrix
   assignment. Laboratory. Day to Day The Matrix customer stays
   appropriately informed of and sensitive to employee issues that may be
   covered by collective bargaining agreements. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 -
   9 - Heavy-Ion Fusion Virtual National Laboratory Safety Plan Lawrence
   Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), Princeton Plasma Physics
   Laboratory (PPPL), and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) are
   jointly engaged in Heavy Ion Fusion (HIF) research, with the goal of
   Inertial Fusion Energy based on heavy-ion induction accelerators as
   drivers. The staff of the three Laboratories carries out this research
   in a coordinated manner, as a Virtual National Laboratory (VNL). The
   terms of this coordination are outlined in a Memorandum of Agreement
   between the Laboratory directors. An Oversight Board governs the HIF
   VNL. The VNL Director provides strategic direction to the fusion energy
   science program and coordinates research efforts. The line management
   of each Laboratory retains supervisory authority of their personnel and
   responsibility for the safety of work at their home Laboratory. The VNL
   Deputies for PPPL and LLNL and the LBNL Fusion Energy Program Head keep
   the VNL Director informed about their Laboratory's management and ES&H
   organization structures. As part of this coordinated research effort,
   many VNL staff members spend a fraction of their time at the three
   laboratories, and use the facilities of the three laboratories at least
   occasionally. The general principle to be followed by HIF VNL staff in
   all activities is to follow the operational procedures associated with
   the workplace where they are working at any given time. Integrated
   Safety Management principles are to be followed by HIF VNL staff
   wherever they are working, and by all personnel working at LLNL, PPPL,
   or LBNL. Office work at all three sites is to be carried out in a safe,
   responsible manner, with due regard to ergonomic safety considerations.
   Staff members are to be kept aware that their workplace environment
   will be adapted to meet their needs in this regard. (AFRD will provide
   ergonomic evaluations for HIF VNL personnel at LBNL in response to
   requests.) Any safety concerns by HIF VNL personnel are to be
   communicated to the VNL Director and the Line Management where the
   concern occurs and the employee's home Laboratory. AFRD ISM Plan June
   2001 - 10 - Figure A. HIF VNL Organization Heavy Ion Fusion Virtual
   National Laboratory Virtual National Laboratory Oversight Board Program
   Advisory Committee Virtual National Laboratory Chair: E. Michael
   Campbell Director: Grant Logan Deputy Directors: Ronald Davidson, LLNL
   TBA Chief Engineer: Victor Karpenko Experimental Planning Engineering:
   Victor Karpenko Physics: John Barnard High Current Experiment Ion
   Sources and Injectors Simulation and Theory Final Transport and
   Focusing Leader: Peter Seidl Leader: Joe Kwan Leader: Alex Friedman
   Leader: Simon Yu Deputy: Steve Lund Deputy: Larry Ahle Deputy: Wei-li
   Lee Deputy: Craig Olson Work at LLNL HIF VNL personnel working at LLNL
   must comply with the LLNL ES&H Manual (
   http://www.llnl.gov/es_and_h/esh-manual.html ) and any Facility Safety
   Plan (FSP), Operational Safety Procedures (OSP) and other safety
   procedures that apply. Safety responsibilities at LLNL follow line
   management. For a VNL member working at LLNL, the first point of
   contact for safety concerns is the leader of the LLNL activity in which
   the individual is involved. NOTE: All injuries to LBNL employees at
   LLNL must be reported to LBNL Health Services (510-486-6266) and the
   employee's LBNL supervisor. Figure B. LLNL HIF Organization John Lindl
   Bick Hooper Craig Sangster Larry Ahle AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 11 -
   Work at LBNL The Fusion Energy Program Head is responsible for the
   safety of VNL work at LBNL. The Fusion Energy Research Program Safety
   Coordinator assists the Program Head in implementing the safety
   program. LBNL and AFRD requirements, including PUB-3000 (
   http://www.lbl.gov/ehs/pub3000/ ) and the AFRD ISM Plan, govern all
   work at LBNL. Work procedures and authorizations are established for
   specific activities. Every person performing work at LBNL must be
   familiar with and implement applicable LBNL safety standards. Section
   1.3.2 of PUB-3000 describes responsibilities for all personnel working
   at LBNL. These responsibilities include taking the initiative to seek
   assistance or advice as needed to carry out operations safely.. Figure
   5. LBNL HIF Organization Accelerator & Fusion Research Division
   Director: Bill Barletta Fusion Energy Program Program Head: Ed Lee
   (acting) Frank Bieniosek Program ES&H Coordinator High Current
   Experiment Ion Sources and Injectors Final Transport and Focusing
   Leader: Peter Seidl Leader: Joe Kwan Leader: Simon Yu Work at PPPL HIF
   VNL personnel working at PPPL must comply with the requirements
   described in the PPPL ES&H Manual (
   http://www.pppl.gov/eshis/ESHD_MANUAL/sm.html ) and the PPPL Visitor
   Guide (http://www.pppl.gov/guide/), including completion of General
   Employee Training. In addition, HIF VNL personnel must follow
   requirements specified in project or facility specific documents such
   as Safety Assessment Documents (SADs) and operating procedures. All
   workers must be trained commensurate with their assignments to perform
   work safely. Safety responsibilities at PPPL follow line management.
   For a VNL member working at PPPL, the first point of contact for safety
   concerns is the leader of the PPPL activity in which the individual is
   involved. All individuals working at PPPL, including HIF VNL personnel,
   have the authority and responsibility to require that work which is
   creating an imminent danger be immediately stopped. NOTE: All injuries
   to LBNL employees at PPPL must be reported to LBNL Health Services
   (510-486-6266) and the employee's LBNL supervisor. AFRD ISM Plan June
   2001 - 12 - Figure D. PPPL HIF Organization PPPL Deputy Director
   Richard J. Hawryluk Plasma Science and Technology Department Stewart
   Zweben, Head Nonneutral Plasmas and Accelerator Physics Division Ronald
   C. Davidson, Head AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 13 - Scope of Work The
   scope of AFRD research activities is defined by the Mission Statement
   of our Division Charter: "The Accelerator and Fusion Research Division
   is broadly charged with conducting basic and applied research and
   development in all areas pertaining to the physics and technology of
   beams. In addition, it operates major LBNL facilities that exploit
   accelerated beams for use in basic and technological research."
   Divisional activities encompass the conception, design, construction,
   and operation of accelerators and storage rings for scientific and
   technological research, for fusion- energy experimentation, and for
   industrial and medical applications, as well as the development of
   superconducting magnets, beamlines, and other components for use in
   such machines. Current AFRD operations include particle accelerators,
   superconducting magnets, lasers, laboratories, machine shops,
   fabrication areas, warehouse space, and office spaces. Some AFRD
   personnel conduct work at the Advanced Light Source, 88-Inch
   Accelerator, and other LBNL facilities. AFRD personnel may also work on
   the University of California campus and at other off-site locations.
   Personnel from other organizations, including visitors, guests, and
   students, work at AFRD facilities. The hazards associated with
   operations at LBNL are described in the Hazards, Equipment,
   Authorizations and Review (HEAR) database. The HEAR database is one of
   the tools used by the division for defining its authorized scope of
   work and for identifying the hazards associated with its work
   activities. The database information is reviewed and updated at least
   annually by the AFRD ES&H Administrator. Program/Project ES&H
   Coordinators inform the Administrator of planned changes to work scope
   and associated hazards. The AFRD ES&H Administrator also serves as the
   Division Space Coordinator. This combination of duties provides
   additional opportunities for participation in the work planning
   process, to ensure facilities provided are appropriate to the work to
   be performed in the space. Space coordination activities require the
   ES&H Administrator to visit work areas frequently, providing
   opportunities to observe work in progress and assist in identifying
   potential hazards. Operations and Work Authorization Division, Program,
   and Project managers and supervisors (including Principal
   Investigators) are responsible for considering ES&H hazards, risks, and
   concerns during the work planning process and appropriate controls are
   determined prior to authorizing work. AFRD work authorization
   procedures are tailored to the level of hazard of the work. General
   duties not requiring formal authorization are authorized by the
   employee job descriptions and by completion of training requirements
   determined by the supervisor. Hazards for routine work are identified
   on the HEAR database. Work recognized as posing special hazards is
   planned and authorized as described in Chapter 6 of PUB 3000, the ISMS,
   Section 1.3 of the Operating and Assurance Plan, and AFRD and
   Program/Project procedures. Work authorization methods commonly
   utilized for AFRD operations are described below. Field Work
   Proposal/Agreements (FWP/As), Work For Others requests (WFOs),
   Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADAs), and
   Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) documents are
   carefully reviewed for compliance with environment, health, and safety
   concerns. The conceptual design process includes documented involvement
   of applicable EH&S Division personnel in the review of performance and
   regulatory requirements, codes and standards, and ES&H criteria. AFRD
   ISM Plan June 2001 - 14 - Major projects (according to DOE
   classification criteria) undergo a formal Operational Readiness Review
   (ORR) or Accelerator Readiness Review (ARR) under DOE direction.
   Smaller projects undergo an internal readiness review and work
   authorization process performed by program and division management as
   described below. Experimental hazards are assessed and authorized in
   accordance with PUB-3000, Chapter 6, EH&S Documentation and Approvals.
   The HEAR Client Input Form (PUB-3000, Chapter 6, Appendix G) is used to
   document the review of experimental activities to determine
   authorization requirements. For experiments or facilities that require
   an Activity Hazard Document (AHD), the AHD is reviewed and signed by
   the Division Director, AFRD ES&H Coordinator, the Principal
   Investigator, and appropriate EH&S Division representatives. Work
   requiring a Radiological Work Authorization, Sealed Source
   Authorization, or other ES&H permit or authorization will be performed
   in accordance with the authorization issued by the EH&S Division. AFRD
   personnel working off-site are required, at a minimum, to comply with
   the ES&H requirements applicable to the site at which they are working.
   The Principal Investigator/Activity Supervisor is responsible for
   assigned personnel working off-site, including the obligation to stop
   work immediately if they encounter or discover any work-related
   activities constituting an imminent danger. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 -
   15 - Qualification AFRD selects, assigns, and retains personnel in
   accordance with the RPM and AFRD procedures. In selecting from a group
   of applicants, the division director, program head, or project leader
   evaluates the applicants' qualifications and selects the person who
   possesses the qualifications to perform the duties of the position most
   effectively. In making this judgment, the division director, program
   head, or project leader compares the knowledge, skills, abilities, and
   other qualifications of the applicants with those required for
   successful performance of the duties of the position. AFRD contractor
   selection will comply with the requirements the RPM and ISMS. Effective
   and successful performance of duties includes performance in a manner
   that protects the health and safety of employees and the general public
   and that does not endanger the environment, as defined by the
   Laboratory's EH&S policies and requirements contained in the RPM,
   PUB-3000, ISMS, and OAP. Training Each AFRD supervisor is responsible
   for ensuring all assigned AFRD employees, students, visitors, and
   guests whose anticipated assignment with AFRD exceeds 60 days have
   completed an ES&H Training Profile within the first month of work. (The
   Training Profile is usually created by completing the Job Hazards
   Questionnaire. Supervisors may create Training Groups for their
   personnel.) Whenever an employee's job assignment changes, the ES&H
   Training Profile is reviewed to ensure that the required training is
   appropriate to the employee's job hazards, program assignments, and
   safety roles. Annually, in conjunction with the Performance Review
   process, the ES&H Training Profile and the employee's completion of
   required training is reviewed, and a training plan is developed for
   each employee for the next twelve-month period. Work authorizations,
   such as Activity Hazard Documents and Sealed Source Authorizations,
   specify training requirements for authorized personnel. The AFRD ES&H
   Administrator ensures EH&S training courses required by AFRD work
   authorizations are included in the Training Profiles of authorized
   personnel. The training records of authorized personnel are reviewed
   for completion of required EH&S courses prior to approval,
   modification, and renewal of formal work authorizations. The Principal
   Investigator or Activity Supervisor designated by the work
   authorization is responsible for ensuring authorized personnel have
   completed required training, including on-the-job training in
   activity-specific procedures, before being allowed to work without
   direct supervision. Training of matrixed employees is managed in
   accordance with Berkeley Lab Matrix Protocols. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001
   - 16 - Funding of EH&S Requirements Principal Investigators incorporate
   appropriate resource allocation for ES&H concerns in all research
   proposals, including cost of safety equipment, permits, training,
   maintenance, waste disposal, and facilities modifications unless
   covered by institutional funding sources. Resources To facilitate
   implementation and execution of the Division ES&H Program, the
   following Division resources are made available: 0.2 FTE Division ES&H
   Coordinator 1.0 FTE Division ES&H Administrator 0.1 FTE General
   Sciences ES&H Assistant The AFRD ES&H Administrator's duties include
   providing approximately .12 FTE support to the ALS Division ES&H
   Coordinator, who acts as ES&H Coordinator for the ALS Accelerator
   Physics Program. The AFRD ES&H Administrator also provides occasional
   assistance as needed to the Nuclear Sciences Division ES&H Coordinator.
   ES&H efforts are integral part of all AFRD activities and are performed
   by all AFRD personnel as needed and appropriate to the job task. The
   estimated level of effort is anticipated to include, but is not limited
   to: > 4 hr/Program or Project/month Program or Project ES&H Coordinator
   duties < 1.5 hr/employee/month QUEST self-assessment team AFRD will
   require support from EH&S Division professionals on an as-needed basis.
   EH&S estimates that direct support activities may require a level of
   effort of approximately .47 FTE, as described in Appendix 1, Estimated
   EHS Support of AFRD. AFRD also expects to receive EH&S general
   programmatic support as described in PUB 3000, including but not
   limited to EH&S training courses. Validation, Feedback, and Improvement
   AFRD's primary method of assessing and validating the effective
   implementation of this Plan is our self- assessment process, described
   in detail in Appendix 1, the QUEST Program Guide. Our self-assessment
   process is evaluated annually and findings are summarized in the annual
   AFRD Self-Assessment Report. Performance measurement criteria for this
   report are described in Appendix 2. All walkthrough and QUEST action
   items not completed within 60 days are placed on the LSAD database.
   LSAD completion status, trends, and root causes are summarized in the
   AFRD Self-Assessment Report. Additional opportunities for improvement
   will be identified through LBNL self-assessment activities, as
   described in PUB-5344, ES&H Self-Assessment Program, including
   Integrated Functional Appraisals, Integrated Hazard Assessments, Safety
   Review Committee MESH reviews, and Appendix F performance reports. If
   any discrepancies between authorization information provided by EH&S
   and records maintained by AFRD are noted, these discrepancies will be
   discussed with the appropriate EH&S personnel and the relevant
   documents will be corrected or clarified as necessary. DOE, UC, and
   ES&H regulatory agency oversight activities may identify necessary
   improvements. Applicable information from the LBNL Lessons Learned
   program will be disseminated by the ES&H Administrator as another means
   to share information for accident prevention and hazard awareness. This
   Plan will be reviewed and updated annually, and may be revised more
   frequently as needed to facilitate compliance with regulatory and
   contract requirements and enhance the effectiveness of the Plan. AFRD
   ISM Plan June 2001 - 17 - Accelerator and Fusion Research Division
   Environment, Safety & Health Management Plan Review and Approval
   Signatures: Submitted by: ____ signature on file _______ June 12, 2001
   ___________ William A. Barletta, Director date signed Accelerator and
   Fusion Research Division EH&S Resource Commitment: ____ signature on
   file _______ June 13, 2001 ___________ David C. McGraw, Director date
   signed Environment, Safety & Health Division Accepted: ____ signature
   on file _______ June 28, 2001 ___________ Charles V. Shank, Director
   date signed E. O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory AFRD ISM Plan
   June 2001 - 18 - APPENDIX 1 Estimated EHS Support of AFRD From the EH&S
   Division Function FTE Division Liaison Function Liaison -- AHD Reviews
   .05 Liaison -- Inspections (IFA, SA, etc.) .10 Liaison --
   Consultations, meetings, etc. .05 . 2 0 Other EH&S Support Electrical
   safety .02 IH Hazard evaluations .10 (includes chemical issues,
   respirators, lead, noise, confined space, air quality, project support)
   Emergency coordination and management .03 ORPS .05 Waste -- Training,
   consultations .05 . 2 5 Total . 4 5 Note: EH&S support of ALS is
   included in the ALS Division ISM Plan. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 19 -
   APPENDIX 2. AFRD FY 2001 Self-Assessment Performance Measures FY 2001
   Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance
   Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA
   validation) 1. Define Work 1A. Division Director and line 1.A.1
   Division Director sends 1.A.1 Copy of safety memo * Division integrates
   ES&H managers communicate ES&H annual safety memo to all maintained in
   Division Office. into work and activities. expectations, goals, &
   policies to Division employees. 1.A.2 Copy of meeting agendas * Line
   Management is all staff. Examples of appropriate 1.A.2 AFRD ES&H
   Operations and attendance sheets maintained responsible for the
   protection communications include: Committee meetings are held in
   Division Office. of the public, the workers, * Annual all-hands
   division every month. Division 1.A.3 Copy of meeting agendas and the
   environment. meeting management and each Program* and attendance sheets
   maintained * Clear and unambiguous lines * Research procedures and are
   represented at each meeting. in Division Office. of authority and
   protocols include safety notes The Division ES&H Plan, its 1.A.4 Copies
   of Program all- responsibility for ensuring * Availability of ES&H
   implementation status, and hands safety meeting agendas and ES&H are
   established and committee minutes. ES&H issues are discussed at
   attendance sheets maintained in maintained at all these meetings.
   Program Office. organizational levels. Division staff has clear lines
   of 1.A.3 AFRD ES&H Committee 1.A.5 Website address. * Resources are
   effectively communication to convey ES&H meetings are held quarterly.
   allocated to balance issues to Lab and Division Division management and
   each programmatic, operational, management, including evidence Program*
   are represented at each and ES&H considerations. of clear policy for
   all staff to meeting. The Division ES&H communicate safety concerns.
   Plan, its implementation status, and ES&H issues are discussed at these
   meetings. 1.A.4 Each Program* holds at least one annual "all-hands"
   meeting with the Division Director and Program Head at which safety is
   discussed. 1.A.5 AFRD ISM Plan is posted on AFRD website. AFRD ISM Plan
   June 2001 - 20 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD Actions
   Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to implement
   expectations) (for OAA validation) 1.A.6 Each Program* Head 1.A.6 AFRD
   ES&H Committee appoints a Program ES&H organization chart. Coordinator
   to facilitate communication of E&HS issues and concerns between Program
   staff and Division management. * NOTE: DARHT Project is considered a
   Program for the purposes of these Performance Measures. 1B. The ES&H
   committee and 1.B See 1.A.3 1.B See 1.A.3 the Division safety
   management group are active in addressing ES&H for Division work
   activities. 1C. Demonstrate that 1.C.1 General Sciences Human
   1.C.1/1.C.2 survey results participating guests are made Resources
   Center Manager will maintained in Division Office. aware of and held
   accountable for ensure ISM and GERT brochures ES&H. are being provided
   to all new NOTE: Guests who participate AFRD personnel. in shop or
   laboratory activities 1.C.2 AFRD ES&H are encouraged to complete JHQs.
   Administrator will survey current See JHQ and training completion
   guests annually to ensure rates on training database. brochures are
   being received. 1D. Division holds employees 1.D.1 AFRD supervisors
   review 1.D.1 P2R instructions sent to accountable for ES&H. ES&H
   performance of employees supervisors by General Sciences and comment on
   performance of Human Resources center. matrixed employees as part of
   the P2R process. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 21 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment
   Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual
   SA Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 1E.
   Division has an approved 1.E.1 The Division has an 1.E.1/1.E.2 Copy of
   signed and and validated ISM Plan. approved ISM Plan in place. dated
   ISM Plan maintained in 1.E.2 The Division ISM Plan is Division Office.
   reviewed at least annually and updated as necessary. 1F. Adequate funds
   and resources 1.F.1 ES&H funding and 1.F.1 Copies of project are
   allocated for controls of resources are included in project proposals
   maintained in Division EH&S hazards. proposals. budget office. 1.F.2 No
   projects are delayed due 1.F.2 Identify exceptions in to inadequate
   planning for ES&H Division Self-Assessment requirements. Report. 1.F.3
   Division or Program 1.F.3 Identify exceptions in funding constraints
   does not Division Self-Assessment impede LSAD completion. Report. AFRD
   ISM Plan June 2001 - 22 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD
   Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to
   implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 2. Identify Hazards 2A.
   Line managers use Chapter 2.A.1 Principal Investigators or 2.A.1
   Current AHDs and HEAR * Line Management evaluates 6 of PUB 3000 or
   equivalent for designated project participants Client Input Forms* are
   on file work (new and modifications) evaluating hazards and necessary
   complete AHDs or HEAR Client in the Division Office and posted to
   identify hazards before authorizations for doing work Input Forms* for
   new at the work area for all projects work is performed and to safely.
   All appropriate experimental activities and requiring AHDs. establish
   authorization for authorizations have been issued. modifications to
   experiments, 2.A.2 Hazards inventory performing work safely. which add
   new hazards or increase information is maintained on the * Line
   Management the level of hazards. Program HEAR database. Training
   systematically evaluates ES&H Coordinator provides a profiles are
   maintained on the hazards to mitigate risk posed copy to the Division
   ES&H EH&S Training database. by work in their area. Administrator.
   2.A.3 A spreadsheet of AHD 2.A.2 Work not requiring formal renewal
   dates and current status is EH&S authorizations is maintained in the
   Division office. authorized by identification of hazards in the HEAR
   database and identification of appropriate training in Training
   Profiles. Hazards inventory for all AFRD workspaces is reviewed and
   updated annually. 2.A.3 For all projects requiring AHDs, Division
   review and approval will be obtained before project start-up. The
   Division will review AHDs for active projects annually or when changes
   in hazards or controls are anticipated. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 23 -
   FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence
   Performance Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to implement expectations)
   (for OAA validation) 2.A.4 Current Radiological 2.A.4 Current
   Radiological Work Authorizations and Sealed Work Authorizations and
   Sealed Source Authorizations will be Source Authorizations are on file
   maintained for all projects in the Division Office and requiring these
   authorizations. maintained at the work area for all ..* NOTE: The
   Hazard projects requiring these Assessment Guide Table authorizations.
   documents hazard review for work initiated before February 2001 2B.
   Division maintains an 2.B.1 Principal Investigator/ 2.B.1 AHDs, HEAR
   Client inventory of its hazardous Activity Supervisor will ensure Input
   Forms, and SSAs are on chemicals. any new types of hazardous file in
   the Division Office. chemicals requiring EH&S 2.B.2 Letter requesting
   EH&S authorization are identified prior commitment to perform to use.
   inventory services. Chemical 2.B.2 Division ES&H inventory information
   maintained Administrator will request annual on LBNL database.
   inventory update by EH&S. Division will inventory highest hazard areas
   if EH&S fails to perform inventory services. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 -
   24 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence
   Performance Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to implement expectations)
   (for OAA validation) 3. Control Hazards 3A. Certification of
   engineering 3.A.1 Line Management ensures 3.A.1 Documentation of *
   Administrative and controls and safety lab and shop safety ventilation
   equipment inspection and engineering controls tailored instrumentation
   are up to date. systems and required monitors servicing maintained in
   Program to the hazards have been under their control are checked,
   Office or at work site. implemented. serviced, calibrated and/or
   certified 3.A.2 QUEST team assessment as required by PUB-3000, work
   records/meeting notes maintained procedures and manufacturers' in
   Program Office. recommendations. 3.A.2 Where applicable, QUEST teams
   check engineering controls, safety instrumentation, and
   suspect/counterfeit parts in their areas at least annually. 3B.
   Emergency contact 3.B.1 QUEST teams review 3.B.1 QUEST team assessment
   information is appropriate for the emergency contact signage and
   records/meeting minutes work and associated hazards. posting in their
   areas at least maintained in Program Office. annually. 3C. Line
   managers ensure that 3.C.1 Line managers request 3.C.1 Copies of
   ergonomic ergonomic issues are effectively ergonomic evaluations for
   evaluations maintained in addressed for their work stations personnel
   with ergonomic Division Office. and/or work processes. concerns. 3.C.2
   Purchase requisitions 3.C.2 Line managers provide maintained in
   Division or funding for ergonomic equipment Program offices; worksite
   identified in ergonomic verification. evaluations. 3.C.3 Ergonomics
   classes 3.C.3 Division ES&H scheduled on Calendar. Administrator
   ensures ergonomics training is made available to Division personnel.
   AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 25 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab Expectations
   AFRD Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to
   implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 4. Perform Work 4A. Line
   managers ensure that 4.A.1 Supervisors identify 4.A.1 Accident reports
   (SARs) * Work is consistently their work is performed within hazards
   and take actions necessary maintained by EH&S and in performed within
   authorization, safely, and in a to reduce the rate of accidents and
   Division Office. Accident authorization. manner that protects the
   occurrences. All personnel report statistics reported by EH&S. * Work
   is conducted in manner environment. Waste accidents and occurrences as
   Occurrence Reports maintained by that protects the worker, the
   characterization is accurate and required by PUB-3000. EH&S and in
   Division Office. public, and the environment. waste storage is
   compliant with 4.A.2 Hazardous waste 4.A.2 % compliance for SAAs * Line
   Management ensures legal requirements. Site and task generators
   assigned custodianship determined by EH&S inspection; that staff
   possess the specific training under of Satellite Accumulation Areas %QA
   waste samples and number proficiency and knowledge authorizations
   (Division, RWA, (SAAs) maintain them in of NCARs reported by EH&S
   commensurate with SSA, AHD) is current. accordance with Guidelines for
   waste management. conducting their assigned Generators, PUB-3092. 4.A.3
   Training review memos work safely. Generators maintain control of
   maintained in AHD files. SAAs, categorize and label wastes Records of
   on-the-job training properly, and request pick-up by maintained by PI
   or Activity EH&S before accumulation time Supervisor. limits are
   exceeded. 4.A.3 Division and Principal Investigator/Activity Supervisor
   review training records of personnel when reviewing authorizations.
   Principal Investigators/ Activity Supervisors ensure personnel complete
   on-the-job training required by authorizations and maintain records of
   training. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 26 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab
   Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual SA
   Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 4B Training
   records document 4.B.1 Division ES&H 4.B.1 Training profiles and that
   required training for staff is Administrator reviews training
   completion rates maintained in current. needs with Programs at AFRD
   LBNL database. ES&H Operations Committee 4.B.2 Copies of signed JHQs or
   meetings. Training Profiles maintained in 4.B.2 Supervisors review
   General Sciences Human Training Profiles and training Resources Office
   or Program records with employees during offices. P2R period and when
   duties change significantly. 4C. Line managers ensure that 4.C.1
   Division ES&H 4.C.1 Training profiles and Building Emergency Team
   Administrator establishes completion rates maintained in members are
   fully trained to Training Groups for Building LBNL database. perform
   their responsibilities Emergency Teams and reviews 4.C.1 Meeting
   minutes and most during and emergency. training needs with Programs at
   recent training spreadsheets AFRD ES&H Operations maintained in
   Division office. Committee meetings. 4.C.2 Copies of signed JHQs or
   4.C.2 Supervisors review Training Profiles maintained in Training
   Profiles and training General Sciences Human records with employees
   during Resources Office. P2R period and when assigned to Building
   Emergency Team. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 27 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment
   Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual
   SA Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 4D.
   Stewardship: waste 4.D.1 Division ES&H 4.D.1 Waste minimization
   minimization performance goals Administrator meets with EH&S
   performance information (% are met or exceeded (goals generator
   assistance specialist and reduction of hazardous waste and determined
   by EH&S Waste distributes waste minimization non-hazardous solid waste)
   Management Group, in performance information received maintained by
   EH&S. consultation with the Division). from EH&S at Division safety
   meetings. Generators identify and implement appropriate waste
   minimization efforts. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 28 - FY 2001
   Self-Assessment Lab Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance
   Criteria (for annual SA Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA
   validation) 5. Feedback and 5A. Based on the work, 5.A.1 All AFRD
   supervisors (as 5.A.1 Supervisor walkthrough Improvement associated
   hazards and safety identified by the Program records maintained in
   Division * Line Management actively performance, line managers &
   Head/Project Leader) perform at office. participates in corrective
   staff (including division directors, least one walkthrough of selected
   5.A.2 % Division workspace action planning and ensures principal
   investigators, and AFRD spaces annually. inspected documented in that
   plans are effectively senior/mid managers), participate 5.A.2 Division
   ES&H Walkthrough records maintained executed. in walkthroughs and other
   Administrator walks through all in Division Office. * Divisions
   implement ES&H activities. AFRD workspaces at least 5.A.3 QUEST team
   rosters, improvements based on annually with appropriate assessment
   records/meeting notes feedback from self- Program ES&H Coordinator.
   maintained in Program Offices. assessment, lessons, learned, 5.A.3 All
   AFRD personnel Division Safety Committee benchmarking, Appendix F
   (except short-term) participate in meeting notes discussing QUEST and
   other vehicles that QUEST activities. activities. promote continuous
   improvement. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 29 - FY 2001 Self-Assessment Lab
   Expectations AFRD Actions Evidence Performance Criteria (for annual SA
   Report) (to implement expectations) (for OAA validation) 5B.
   Supervisor's Accident 5.B Injured employees, their 5B SAARs maintained
   in Analysis Reports (SAARs) are supervisors, the safety Division office
   and by EH&S. processed in a timely manner and coordinator, the EH&S
   liaison, actively involves root cause and as appropriate the Division
   analysis and corrective actions by Director and/or Program Head the
   injured employee, the participate in accident analyses. supervisor, the
   safety coordinator, Supervisors ensure SAARs are the division liaison,
   and as processed in a timely manner. appropriate the Division Director
   and/or other senior managers. 5C. Division tracks the 5.C AFRD ES&H
   Administrator 5C. AFRD Action Item corrective actions of findings
   maintains spreadsheet of ES&H spreadsheet maintained in identified in
   its self-assessment. action items. Unresolved items Division office.
   LSAD database over 60 days are entered into the maintained in Division
   office and LSAD database. submitted upon request to OAA. 5D. Division
   ES&H committee 5.D Division ES&H 5.D Division safety meeting and/or the
   Division safety Administrator reviews ES&H agendas and minutes
   maintained management group uses ES&H information, and discusses in
   Division Office. data and information from lessons significant events
   and trends at learned, SAARs, incident reports, Division safety
   meetings. EH&S monitoring reports, Appendix F performance measures,
   etc. to institute appropriate mitigation measures or opportunities for
   improvement. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 30 - APPENDIX 3 AFRD QUEST
   PROGRAM GUIDE Accelerator and Fusion Research Division Ernest Orlando
   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 31 -
   HOW TO USE THIS GUIDE Most of the pages of this Guide comprise forms
   and checklists to assist you in your QUEST activities. If you read
   Section 1 thoroughly, and, when needed, the short text at the beginning
   of each of the other sections describing the forms contained therein,
   you'll understand QUEST. All AFRD personnel are strongly encouraged to
   do this. For your use, here is a description of each of the sections of
   this Guide: Section 1. QUEST Description Please read this section
   carefully. It contains important information as to the basic
   requirements and flexibility given to Programs and Projects in
   setting-up QUEST teams and implementing QUEST activities. Section 2.
   Team Roster A current roster of Team members must be maintained in the
   Program or Project office. Establishing a team name and listing it as
   described in this section will help identify QUEST teams within your
   Program or Project. Section 3. ES&H/QA Concerns Any concern about
   employee safety and health, the protection of the environment, or
   conditions that affect the quality of AFRD activities should be listed
   as described in this section and handled in accordance with guidance
   contained in Sections 1 and 3. Section 4. ES&H Checklists This section
   contains model self-assessment checklists. Instructions for use are
   contained within the section. All AFRD space must be inspected at least
   once each year for applicable items on the QUEST Fundamentals
   checklist. The other checklists are provided as tools that assessment
   teams may use to assist in performing inspections. ES&H Coordinators
   and Team Leaders are encouraged to tailor the optional checklists to
   the hazards that may be found in your work areas. Section 5. Quality
   Assurance/Quality Improvement This section contains guidance for
   providing input on quality assurance issues to the AFRD QA Operations
   Committee. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 32 - SECTION 1. QUEST DESCRIPTION
   INTRODUCTION QUEST is an integrated way to examine QUality
   Assurance/Improvement and Environment, Safety, and Health through
   Self-Assessment and Teamwork. Its basic premise is that teams composed
   of employees actually performing the work of the Programs are in the
   best position to evaluate the quality and safety of their workplace.
   HISTORY * QUEST was developed in 1994 * It was revised as QUEST-II in
   1996. * The April 1998 update aligned the QUEST program with the Lab
   Integrated Safety Management System by incorporating QUEST into the
   AFRD ES&H Management Plan. * The October 1998 update provided greater
   flexibility to teams in deciding how to implement QUEST. * The January
   2000 update established an annual QUEST review as the required minimum
   level of QUEST participation and revised the Quality Assurance aspects
   of self-assessment. * The April 2001 update simplifies the QUEST
   Fundamentals checklist and revises the Quality Assurance section. *
   AFRD management will review the QUEST program annually as part of our
   Integrated Safety Management Plan update. OBJECTIVES The main objective
   of QUEST is the identification and mitigation of any condition or
   process that jeopardizes the safety and health of employees, protection
   of the environment, or the quality of AFRD research or operations. The
   QUEST process involves all long-term AFRD personnel to raise awareness
   of ES&H and quality issues and develop the habit of identifying,
   reporting, and resolving potential problems before accidents or
   occurrences result. QUEST teams are also encouraged to identify
   opportunities for improvement, examine each of these opportunities, and
   implement those actions that they believe will lead to the improvement
   desired. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 33 - PROCESS Required Activities:
   All AFRD personnel (including Division employees, matrixed employees,
   visitors, temporary employees, students, and participating guests) are
   assigned to a QUEST self-assessment team, with the exception of
   short-term personnel (persons whose participation in AFRD work
   activities at LBNL are anticipated to occur over a period of less than
   90 days/year). Persons whose participation in work activities at AFRD
   are anticipated to occur over a period of less than 90 days may be
   included in a QUEST team as determined by the Program Head. Composition
   of the teams is left to the discretion of the appropriate Program Head
   or Project Leader, but each team should have charge of self-assessment
   for the workspace of its members. AFRD ALS Accelerator Physics Program
   personnel are assigned to ALS Division Safety Circles, which function
   as the ALS QUEST teams. They will participate in ALS Division QUEST
   activities, as directed by the ALS ES&H Coordinator. ALS may designate
   different requirements for AFRDs ALS Accelerator Physics personnel.
   Program/Project ES&H Coordinators must coordinate team assignments to
   ensure the annual inspections cover all the Program/Project space at
   LBNL. Teams may work together or exchange areas. Each QUEST team is
   required to perform an assessment of workplace ES&H hazards at least
   once each year. The Team Leader may select a subset of team members to
   perform the actual workplace inspection and report the findings to the
   team. The applicable items on the QUEST Fundamentals checklist must be
   checked. (NOTE: ALS may designate different checklists for ALS
   assessments.) The additional checklists from Section 4 of this Guide
   are provided as tools teams may use when conducting inspections. Team
   members are also encouraged to identify quality assurance issues. The
   annual inspection must be completed before the end of the designated
   QUEST inspection month. The inspection may take place before the
   designated QUEST month to accommodate the work schedules of team
   members. Each team must meet at least once each year to discuss the
   workplace inspection findings and solicit additional reports of
   concerns from its members. Teams must report any unresolved concerns to
   their Program/Project ES&H Coordinator. The Program/Project ES&H
   Coordinator must report the unresolved concerns before or during the
   AFRD ES&H Operations Committee meeting immediately following the
   designated QUEST inspection month. The AFRD ES&H/QA Administrator will
   enter ES&H action items past 60 AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 34 - days
   into the Laboratorys Self-Assessment Database (LSAD) and track them to
   completion. QA action items will be forwarded to the AFRD QA Operations
   Committee. Program Heads and Project Leaders may establish additional
   requirements for QUEST activities within their Project or Program.
   Recommended Activities: In addition to the required annual inspection,
   QUEST teams are encouraged to remain active throughout the year. QUEST
   teams can play an important role in assisting personnel in identifying
   and solving problems. Team meetings are one way of providing feedback
   to the team on the actions that have been taken as a result of the
   concerns team members have identified. QUEST team meetings are also an
   opportunity to pass along relevant information from the AFRD ES&H and
   QA committees. Most QUEST teams find value in meeting 4-6 times a year.
   Appropriate meeting topics include any issue affecting safety, the
   environment, or quality assurance. Teams are encouraged to choose
   topics that are "local issues" and fit their needs. Teams may choose to
   perform additional assessments of particular areas or aspects of their
   work. If deficiencies are uncovered, corrections should be made
   immediately when practical. Section 4 or this guide includes an example
   of a form for recording all deficiencies found and corrections made.
   Items requiring the assistance of other LBNL organizations to correct,
   or for which additional guidance is needed should be promptly referred
   to the AFRD ES&H/QA Administrator through the Program/Project ES&H
   Coordinator. TEAM STRUCTURE Teams may comprise those with similar job
   descriptions, those who work in a given area, those who work together
   on specific projects, or any other selection criteria deemed
   appropriate by the Program. Each QUEST team must have a team leader.
   The team leader may be appointed by Program management or elected by
   the team members. Although team leader rotation is not mandatory, AFRD
   strongly encourages election of the team leader by the team members for
   a fixed term. Frequent rotation of team leaders provides a slightly
   different direction to the team at each rotation and increases each
   employee's awareness of the many facets of quality assurance, ES&H, and
   self-assessment by giving them a leadership role for a short time.
   Every team member is encouraged to attend all scheduled QUEST meetings.
   Each team member should have an active role to play in some facet of
   QUEST activities each year, e.g., writing a quality assurance policy or
   procedure, recording team activities, participating in self-assessment
   inspections, etc.. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 35 - RECORDS Each QUEST
   team will maintain a record of its activities including minutes and
   attendance rosters for all meetings, copies of inspection/correction
   lists, and a final report of actions taken or planned. The team leader
   will provide copies of these documents to the Program or Project ES&H
   Coordinator. As an agenda item on each AFRD ES&H Operations Committee
   meeting, items considered by the Program or Project to be significant
   will be discussed. Quality assurance issues will be forwarded to the
   AFRD QA Operations Committee. Copies of all documents will be
   maintained in the Program or Project office to provide validation for
   our annual Division self- assessment report. AFRD ES&H and QA
   COMMITTEES AFRD ES&H Committees Program or major Project ES&H
   Committees consist of current QUEST team leaders, the Program or
   Project ES&H Coordinator, and others designated by the Program Head.
   Program ES&H Committees meet at the discretion of the AFRD Program Head
   or Project Leader. It is recommended that they meet at least once every
   two months. ES&H Committee meetings may be held in conjunction with
   another Program or Project meeting. AFRD has a two-tiered ES&H
   Committee structure at the Division level -- the ES&H Operations
   Committee coordinates most ES&H program implementation activities,
   while the ES&H Committee provides oversight and direction. An
   Organization Chart of committee members is found in the Accountability
   section of the AFRD Integrated Safety Management Plan. The AFRD ES&H
   Operations Committee consists of the Program and major Project ES&H
   Coordinators, the AFRD ES&H Administrator, and the AFRD ES&H
   Coordinator. This committee, working in conjunction with
   Program/Project ES&H Committees and QUEST teams, is the primary conduit
   for ES&H information both to and from LBNL and AFRD management. The
   EH&S Liaison is also invited to the meetings of this committee.
   Meetings are held monthly, usually on the first Friday of the month. At
   the meeting, Program/Project representatives discuss ES&H concerns and
   lessons learned from them. The AFRD ES&H Coordinator and/or
   Administrator passes on any information on lab-wide ES&H programs and
   problems that have arisen. The AFRD ES&H Committee is chaired by the
   AFRD Director and consists of the AFRD Deputies, AFRD Program Heads and
   Project Leaders for major projects, AFRD Program and Project ES&H
   Coordinators, the AFRD ES&H Coordinator, and the AFRD ES&H
   Administrator. This committee meets once during every quarter to
   discuss ES&H problem areas and to suggest improvements to the QUEST.
   The meeting normally takes place in conjunction with a regularly
   scheduled Program Heads meeting. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 36 - AFRD QA
   Committees The AFRD QA Operations Committee consists of the Program and
   major Project QA Representatives, the AFRD QA Administrator, and the
   AFRD QA Coordinator. This committee, working in conjunction with
   Program/Project QUEST teams, is the primary conduit for QA information
   both to and from LBNL and AFRD management. The OAA QA manager is also
   invited to the meetings of this committee. Meetings are held as
   determined by the AFRD QA Coordinator. At the meeting, Program/Project
   representatives discuss QA concerns and lessons learned from them. The
   AFRD QA Coordinator and/or Administrator will pass on any information
   on lab-wide QA programs and problems that have arisen. The AFRD QA
   Committee is chaired by the AFRD Director and consists of AFRD Program
   Heads and Project Leaders for major projects, AFRD Program and Project
   QA Representatives, the AFRD Deputy/QA Coordinator, and the AFRD QA
   Administrator. This committee will meet as determined by the AFRD QA
   Coordinator to discuss QA problem areas and to suggest improvements to
   the QUEST. The meeting will normally take place in conjunction with a
   regularly scheduled Program Heads meeting. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 37
   - QUEST ROLE IN DIVISION SELF-ASSESSMENT The Laboratory has implemented
   a self-assessment system that AFRD fully supports and in which the
   Division actively participates. This system includes the following
   assessments: * Management Environment, Safety, and Health (MESH)
   assessments, conducted every three years by the senior research
   personnel on the Safety Review Committee, review how well the
   management systems described in our AFRD ES&H Management Plan are
   functioning. * Integrated Functional Appraisals (IFA), performed every
   three years by teams of EH&S Division specialists who make
   comprehensive inspections of AFRD operations based on identified risk
   levels. * Division Self-Assessments, performed annually by each
   Division, measure the implementation of the Division ES&H Management
   Plans. QUEST is an important part of this system. Instead of waiting
   for an EH&S or Safety Review Committee self-assessment team to inspect
   our areas before we take action, we constantly assess the quality and
   safety of the locations where we work. After all, who is more familiar
   with our work and the hazards we face than we are? Assessment of
   Division spaces for day-to-day deficiencies (in both the ES&H and QA
   areas), and correction of these deficiencies, is accomplished by QUEST
   teams. Identifying and resolving easily correctable deficiencies within
   the Division permits Integrated Functional Appraisal teams to direct
   more of their attention to helping us improve our performance in less
   obvious areas. To avoid duplicated effort, the IFA teams review our
   QUEST action items as part of their appraisal and then focus their
   inspections on the more difficult to identify deficiencies. The annual
   Division Self-Assessment report is compiled (by the AFRD ES&H
   Administrator) by reviewing QUEST documentation, findings from safety
   walkthroughs by Division and Program management, and other performance
   information such as accident reports, regulatory agency inspection
   reports, and findings of EH&S Division and Safety Review Committee
   assessments. Your QUEST findings help us identify ways of improving our
   ES&H/QA efforts. Our Division ES&H Self-Assessment Report is submitted
   to the Division Director and the Office of Assessment and Assurance.
   Findings and performance ratings of all the Division Self- Assessments
   are rolled up in an LBNL ES&H self-assessment report. The results are
   summarized for LBNL management in an ISM-Based Division Performance at
   a Glance Table. AFRD ISM Plan June 2001 - 38 - LBNL FY 2001 ISM-Based
   Division Performance at a Glance Expectation Data/Result Rating
   evidence of strong ES&H documented communication satisfactory  green
   communication partial  yellow marginal - red evidence of ES&H
   accountability documented in P2R or alternative satisfactory  green for
   employees and participating partial  yellow guests marginal - red ISM
   plan is reviewed and updated yes/no yes  green annually no - red
   evidence resources and funds yes/no satisfactory  green allocated to
   address ES&H issues partial  yellow marginal - red % work with hazard
   reviews and documented reviews of authorized >85% -green % authorized
   work being reviewed and medium and low hazard work >60% <85% - yellow
   within required schedule <60% - red chemical inventory updated within
   yes/no >85% done on schedule  green past 12 months <85% reviewed, but
   timely support has been sought  yellow <85% of reviews performed - red
   % engineering controls (i.e., fume units certified, tested or
   calibrated >85% done on schedule  green hoods, biocabinets, gloveboxes)
   / total biocabinets, gloveboxes, <85% reviewed, but timely
   certified/tested, including monitor fume hoods, monitors support has
   been sought  yellow calibration <85% of reviews performed - red
   emergency contact information yes/no >85% - green up to date and
   reviewed annually >60%, <85% - yellow <60% - red evidence of an
   effective Division has an active ergonomic satisfactory  green
   ergonomics program prevention program relative to partial  yellow
   degree of ergonomic hazards marginal - red present in division %
   authorized work w/o major RWAs, AHDs, etc, without major regulatory
   driven deficiencies deficiencies / total RWAs, AHDs, >90% green or
   other authorized work >75
