http://spacecom.grc.nasa.gov/projects/

   About SCP Projects Technologies News Related Links


   Projects [butemhom.gif] [butemcon.gif] [butemsea.gif] [butemsit.gif]

   Projects > Overview


   Overview
   Program Related Links
   Related Industry Links
   Other Related Links



   Project Links
     * Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS)
     * Advanced Communications for Air Traffic Management (AC/ATM)
     * Direct Data Distribution (D3)
     * High Rate Data Delivery (HRDD) Thrust Area
     * Integrated Communications Technology (ICT)
     * mmWave Propagation Experiment
     * Technology for Space Internet Services (TSIS)
     * NASA Spectrum Management Office
     * Weather Information Communications (WINCOMM)


      Advanced Communications Technology Satellite
      Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS) logo Work Area
      Manager: Robert Bauer
      NASA Strategic Enterprises: Space Flight, HQ Operations

      The Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS) is an
      experimental satellite that opened Ka-band for space communications and
      demonstrated the use of narrow spot beam antennas, ultra-wideband
      transponders (900 MHz), and on-board digital processing and switching.
      The project supported experiments from industry, academia, and the
      government which have acted as a catalyst in the acceptance and
      implementation of the technologies developed into next generation
      satellite systems.

      NASA Glenn entered into a Space Act Agreement in March 2001 with the
      Ohio Board of Regents and the Ohio University to extend operations for
      collaborative educational and research-based activities through the
      formation of a university-based consortium. The agreements allows for
      up to four more years of operations for the consortium to use ACTS.

      Role of SCP: To provide for spacecraft operations and technical
      oversight of the consortium.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: The flawless operation of the spacecraft
      and continued user interest allowed a broad-based experiments program
      to expand over three times its originally planned duration. ACTS has
      received numerous awards including the R&D 100 Award in Significant
      Technology, the Federal Technology Leadership Award, and has been
      inducted into the Space Technology Hall of Fame.


      Advanced Communications for Air Traffic Management (AC/ATM)
      Project Manager: Robert Kerczewski
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Aerospace Technology

      The Advanced Communications for Air Traffic Management (AC/ATM) Project
      is developing Integrated Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance
      for global and national air transportation systems by testing and
      demonstrating technologies and architectures that will increase the
      capacity and throughput of the National Airspace System in the future.
      Key technologies of AC/ATM include advanced networks and communications
      system architectures, phased array antennas, and air mobile terminals.

      Role of SCP: To provide research in communications system and network
      modeling and simulation, development and testing of air-mobile
      satellite communications terminals, and development of advanced
      communication technologies for aeronautical communications.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: The AC/ATM Project has completed an
      in-depth study of communications requirements for aeronautical
      applications including advanced free flight air traffic management
      methods. AC/ATM has also developed and tested an advanced Ku-band
      aero-mobile terminal, including Ku-band electronically scanning phased
      array antennas. AC/ATM has supported and co-sponsored flight test using
      the NASA Dryden DC-8 research aircraft, demonstrating the first
      broadband satellite communications networked aircraft link.


      Direct Data Distribution Project (D³)
      Work Area Manager: Lawrence Wald
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Space Flight

      The Direct Data Distribution (D3) Project is the planned demonstration
      of a high rate kA-band based communications link from a low earth orbit
      (LEO) platform direct to a tracking ground station, using a solid state
      electrically-steered phased array and an OC-12 (622 mbps) modulation
      scheme that is both bandwidth and power efficient. The primary goal of
      this project is to enable the eventual transition of LEO-based NASA
      science users from government-owned communications services to
      commercially-provided services at kA-band

      Role of SCP: To develop, integrate, and demonstrate, via a spaceflight
      opportunity, the key technologies needed to enable high rate direct to
      ground services for NASA users at kA-band

      Accomplishments/Achievements: D3 has developed a Hitchhiker-based
      canister as the basis for the flight payload, complete with the initial
      safety and integration assessment needed for flight. D3 has also
      developed cryoreceiver-based electronics necessary for deployment of an
      inexpensive tracking ground terminal needed as part of the technology
      that enables the direct to ground service.


      High Rate Data Delivery (HRDD) Thrust Area
      Thrust Area Manager: Dr. Kul B. Bhasin
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Aero-Space Technology

      High Rate Data Delivery (HRDD) logo High Rate Data Delivery (HRDD) is a
      thrust area within the Cross-Enterprise Technology Development Program
      (CETDP ), and is NASA's primary vehicle for undertaking basic research
      within the agency to enable planned missions, stimulate new concepts
      for missions not yet conceived, and to confront directly the grand
      challenges that face the agency in the year 2000 and beyond. The
      primary goal of HRDD is to architecture the next generation space-based
      Internet, provide end-to-end solutions and technology inventions, and
      infuse technologies in NASA Enterprise Missions.


      Integrated Communications Technologies (ICT)
      Thrust Area Manager: Richard Reinhart
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Space Operations / Communications Technology
      Project at SOMO

      Integrated Communications Technology (ICT) is developing advanced
      communications technologies for communication between NASA spacecraft
      and other space and ground-based networks. The goal of this project is
      to implement an efficient modulation capacity, apply engineering model
      phased array antennas for direct downlink and cross-link applications,
      offer integration and system-level performance evaluation capabilities,
      and develop a millimeter wave program to investigate propagation
      effects at both kA-band and V-band frequencies.

      Role of SCP: To provide technical program management to develop and
      direct the advanced technologies to meet the needs and objectives of
      the Space Operations/Communications Technology Project making the
      technologies available to future NASA missions.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: ICT has several technologies under
      development including multiple phased and reflect array antennas and
      systems, RF circuit development using advanced materials such as
      silicon germanium and ferroelectric, a bandwidth efficient modulator,
      and millimeter wave propagation research. Accomplishments include a
      bandwidth efficient modulation comparison simulation study and the
      development of a prototype kA-Band (20.7 GHz) propagation terminal to
      extend the ACTS propagation database to tropic locations.


      mm Wave Propagation Experiment
      Principle Investigator: Roberto Acosta

      mmWave Propagation logo SOMO Millimeter Wave Propagation Experiment
      (mmWave) is developing and performing statistical investigations of all
      aspects of system availability at Ka- and V-band in a tropical
      rainforest environment. The primary goal of this project is to validate
      kA-band worse case tropic location rain attenuation prediction models,
      obtain first V-band propagation data for US dissemination, and develop
      and validate V-band models.

      Role of SCP: To provide overall management of the project by gathering
      data, providing analysis and model validation at kA-band and V-band,
      and disseminate the information through appropriate technical reports
      and conference materials.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: The mmWave project has successfully
      developed the use of kA and V-band propagation terminals.


      Technology for Space Internet Services (TSIS)
      Work Area Manager: Phillip Paulsen
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Space Flight

      Technology for Space Internet Services (TSIS) is developing and
      demonstrating communications and network technologies that are helping
      to enable the near-Earth space Internet. The goal of TSIS is to develop
      the network technology necessary to make every future NASA space asset
      Internet Protocol (IP) compliant and act as a "node on the Internet".

      Role of SCP: To provide overall management of the project including the
      development of network products such as NIC's, LAN, Routers, and
      Protocols for eventual use in space.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: TSIS is a new project but has already
      been involved with IP experiments over ACTS and has financed the design
      of a miniaturized secure router breadboard. Next year TSIS is planning
      to pick up the IP development activities currently being funded as part
      of the Cross-Enterprise Technology Development Program.


      NASA Spectrum Management Office
      Agency Spectrum Program Manager: Wayne A. Whyte
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Space Flight

      NASA Spectrum Management Office Logo Spectrum Management coordinates
      the process for NASA projects that need to obtain US and/or
      International authorizations to transmit on radio frequencies and
      actively participates in the US and International process that defines
      the usage of the radio frequencies; representing NASA's interests.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: The Spectrum Management Office led NASA
      participation on the US Delegation to the 2000 World
      Radiocommunications Conference where all NASA objectives were
      successfully achieved to benefit current and future Agency missions. A
      primary allocation status for space science operations in the 2025-2110
      MHz band was achieved, thus providing protected operations in the band
      for virtually all NASA missions. A Group Achievement Award was
      presented to the WRC 2000 Team at the NASA Honor Awards located at NASA
      Glenn Research Center on August 23, 2001.


      Weather Information Communications (WINCOMM)
      Project Manager: Konstantinos Martzaklis
      NASA Strategic Enterprise: Aerospace Technology

      Weather Information Communications (WINCOMM) Logo Weather Information
      Communications (WINCOMM) is developing advanced communications and
      information technologies that will provide high quality and timely
      dissemination of intuitive aviation weather information to pilots,
      dispatchers and air traffic controllers while enabling early detection
      and avoidance of atmospheric hazards. In addition, WINCOMM is
      developing network technologies to allow all aircraft to be "nodes" on
      an aviation Internet.

      Role of SCP: To provide overall management of the project including
      developing technology that addresses the communication specific issues
      associated with the dissemination of weather.

      Accomplishments/Achievements: Future plans include conducting a number
      of focused experiments investigating ATM, national and global weather
      dissemination, and multi-protocol networking technology.


      About SCP | Projects | Technologies | News | Related Links


   Responsible NASA Official: John Mudry
   The Space Communications Program
   NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland Ohio
   NASA Privacy Statement | NASA Web Accessibility Statement
   Send us your comments.
   Site constructed by Zin Technologies, Inc.
   To report problems wih this site please contact the curator.
