http://www.niddk.nih.gov/tools/faq.htm

   NIDDK logo
   NIDDK Home
   [spacer.gif]

   National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
   (NIDDK) [Quick Links________________________] [BUTTON Input] (not
   implemented)___

   Site Map             FAQs Contact NIDDK
   Search
            ____________

Frequently Asked Questions

     Welcome

     Research Funding and Planning

     Laboratories at NIDDK

     Health Information

     Clinical Trial Participation

     NIDDK National Health Education Programs

     Other Resources

Welcome

   Q:  What is NIDDK?
          A:  The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
          Diseases (NIDDK) is part of the National Institutes of Health
          (NIH). We conduct and support biomedical research, disseminating
          research findings and health information to the public. We are
          part of the U.S. Government, under the Department of Health and
          Human Services (HHS).

   Q:  Where is the National Institutes of Health located?
          A:  The NIH campus is located in Bethesda, Maryland, on
          Wisconsin Avenue (across from the Bethesda Naval Medical
          Center). Directions and maps are available. NIDDK's Phoenix
          Epidemiology and Clinical Research Branch is located in Arizona.

   Q:  Can I get on your online mailing list (listserv) for news releases?
          A:  You can subscribe to the Department of Health and Human
          Services listserv, to which the National Institutes of
          Health--including NIDDK--provides its news releases.

Research Funding and Planning

   Q:  How do I obtain hormones for my research?
          A:  The NIDDK's National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP)
          provides human and animal pituitary hormones and other hormones
          for the research community. The NHPP is sponsored by the Hormone
          Distribution Program of NIDDK.

   Q:  How do I apply for funding for my biomedical research?
          A:  Most NIH-funded research is investigator-initiated:
          scientists from universities and labs around the country apply
          for funding for projects that interest them. Requests for
          Applications (RFAs) are issued to foster interest in certain
          areas. Applications undergo a two-step peer review process by
          outside scientific experts to ensure the highest scientific
          standards among funded projects. In the first step, a study
          section assigns numeric priority ratings to applications based
          on their scientific merit and feasibility. In the second step,
          the NIDDK's National Advisory Council approves the study
          section's recommendations. This process is mandated by U.S. law.
          For further information, see the Grants section of the NIH home
          page or the Research Funding Opportunities section of the NIDDK
          home page. You may also contact "Ask NIH" at (301) 435-0714, or
          asknih@od.nih.gov.

   Q:  How do I contact an NIDDK staff member about a grant application?
          A:  NIDDK's staff directory lists email addresses and telephone
          numbers for NIDDK and NIH staff, if you know the name of the
          person you need to contact. If not, look at the five divisions
          under the Research Funding or Organization sections. The five
          divisions are the Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology and
          Metabolic Diseases (DEM), the Division of Digestive Diseases and
          Nutrition (DDN), the Division of Kidney, Urologic and
          Hematologic Diseases (KUH), the Division of Extramural
          Activities (DEA), and the Division of Nutrition Research
          Coordination (DNRC).

Laboratories at NIDDK

   Q:  How do I apply for a summer position in a lab at the National
          Institutes of Health?
          A:  Information about research and training opportunities at the
          NIH is provided by the NIH Office of Education.

Health Information

   Q:  How do I find the answers to my specific medical questions?
          A:  NIDDK cannot provide a diagnosis or medical advice for an
          individual situation. A doctor who has examined you and knows
          your medical history is the best person to provide that
          information.

          The NIDDK's health information section lists titles of
          lay-language and easy-to-read publications on topics covered by
          NIDDK. (You may also refer to the National Institutes of
          Health's health information section or to use the NIH search
          engine if you're not sure which institute covers the area of
          your interest.) If you have a complex question and you're
          comfortable with technical articles, you may want to search the
          medical literature by using the free Internet access to Medline.
          If you still need help finding general information about a
          diagnosed condition, send your question to the dkwebmaster.

   Q:  How can I find a support group for people with my medical
          condition?
          A:  You may wish to ask your doctor or local hospital for
          information on support groups. You may also find it helpful to
          check our directories of professional and voluntary
          organizations for the areas of diabetes, digestive diseases,
          kidney and urologic diseases, and metabolic and endocrine
          disorders.

   Q:  What are the possible side effects of my prescribed medicines?
          A:  You should ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions about
          the drugs prescribed for you. You can also consult the
          Physician's Desk Reference, which is widely available at local
          libraries. It describes drugs, how they work and interact, and
          their possible side effects.

   Q:  Can you refer me to a specialist or tell me the best place to go
          for treatment for my disorder?
          A:  We cannot provide referrals because we have no way to
          evaluate doctors. You should ask your primary physician for a
          referral to a specialist. You may also wish to contact a local
          medical society for a listing of specialists in your area. We
          recommend seeking a specialist associated with a
          university-affiliated or teaching hospital if one is in your
          area. You should seek a physician who is board-certified in the
          specialty you need and skilled in the procedures you may
          undergo. To verify a physician's credentials, you may wish to
          refer to the American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) Public
          Education Program's CertifiedDoctor Verification Service.
          Certified specialists are also listed in The Official ABMS
          Directory of Board Certified Medical Specialists, which is
          published by Marquis Who's Who and is available in most public
          libraries.

   Q:  How do I make an appointment with a specialist at NIDDK?
          A:  NIDDK conducts and supports biomedical research. We are not
          a diagnostic institution. Any patients seen at the NIH Clinical
          Center have a specific diagnosis and have been referred by their
          physicians to participate in research studies. Practicing
          physicians seeking to consult with a specialist may contact the
          NIDDK investigator directly. If you need help finding the right
          person, contact the Office of Scientific and Health Information
          at (301) 496-3583 or send your inquiry to the dkwebmaster.

   Q:  Can you provide information on alternative remedies for my
          condition?
          A:  The NIH Office of Alternative Medicine is a good source for
          such information.

   Q:  Where can I locate foreign language health education materials?
          A:  The Combined Health Information Database (CHID) is an
          excellent source for finding health education materials about a
          wide range of topics, including foreign-language materials.
          These materials include articles from medical journals, books,
          booklets, audiovisual materials, and other educational media for
          patients and health providers. The database provides titles,
          abstracts, and availability information on each item--but not
          the full-text articles online unless it's an NIDDK publication.

   Q:  Where can I get a meal plan or nutrition advice for my disorder?
          A:  General information on nutrition related to specific
          diseases is incorporated into our fact sheets on those diseases.
          For individual advice on meal plans related to medical
          conditions, you should meet with a registered dietitian. Your
          doctor can provide the name of a dietitian in your area. More
          information about registered dietitians is available from the
          American Dietetic Association.

   Q:  Where can I buy a blood glucose meter that does not require
          sticking my finger?
          A:  Several noninvasive blood glucose meters are under
          development, but this technology is still experimental and
          imperfect. None have yet been approved by the Food and Drug
          Administration for sale in the United States.

Clinical Trial Participation

   Q:  Where can I find information about current clinical trials?
          A:  Information about clinical trials conducted by NIH, NIDDK,
          and other Federal and private organizations is listed under
          Patient Recruitment. The ClinicalTrials.gov database offers
          information on the location of clinical trials, their design and
          purpose, criteria for participation, and further information
          about the disease and treatment under study.

   Q:  How can I enroll in a clinical trial at NIDDK?
          A:  You must be diagnosed with a condition under study and you
          must be referred by your physician. NIDDK conducts limited
          clinical studies at the NIH Clinical Center in Bethesda,
          Maryland. We also support several large, multi-center trials,
          which are listed under NIDDK Studies.

NIDDK National Health Education Programs

   Q:  What is the National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse?
          A:  The National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse (NDIC) is an
          information and referral service of the National Institute of
          Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), National
          Institutes of Health (NIH), designed to increase knowledge and
          understanding about diabetes among patients and their families,
          health care professionals, and the general public.

   Q:  What is the National Diabetes Education Program?
          A:  The National Diabetes Education Program is a federally
          sponsored initiative that involves public and private partners
          to improve the treatment and outcomes for people with diabetes,
          to promote early diagnosis, and ultimately to prevent the onset
          of diabetes.

   Q:  What is the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse?
          A:  The National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse
          (NDDIC) is an information and referral service of the National
          Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK),
          National Institutes of Health (NIH), designed to increase
          knowledge and understanding about digestive diseases and health
          among people with digestive diseases and their families, health
          care professionals, and the general public.

   Q:  What is the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information
          Clearinghouse?
          A:  The National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information
          Clearinghouse (NKUDIC) is an information and referral service of
          the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
          Diseases (NIDDK), National Institutes of Health (NIH), designed
          to increase the knowledge and understanding about kidney and
          urologic diseases and health among patients and their families,
          health care professionals, and the general public.

   Q:  What is the Weight-control Information Network (WIN)?
          A:  The Weight-control Information Network (WIN) is a national
          information service of the National Institute of Diabetes and
          Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), National Institutes of
          Health (NIH). WIN provides science-based information on obesity,
          weight control, and related nutritional disorders to health
          professionals and consumers. In addition, WIN has developed the
          Sisters Together: Move More, Eat Better public awareness
          campaign to encourage black women to achieve and maintain a
          healthy weight.

   Home || Welcome || Health Information || Research Funding Opportunities
   || Clinical Trials || NIDDK Laboratories || Reports, Testimony & Plans
   || Site Map || FAQs || Contact NIDDK || Search

   Director: Dr. Allen Spiegel
   National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
   (NIDDK) is part of the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD,
   USA. General inquiries may be addressed to Office of Communications and
   Public Liaison, NIDDK, NIH, Building 31, room 9A04 Center Drive, MSC
   2560, Bethesda, MD 20892-2560, USA. || Privacy || Disclaimer ||
   Copyright || Credits || Accessibility
   U. S. National Institutes of Health U.S. Department of Health & Human
                                       Services                         FirstGov
   [spacer.gif]
