http://www.pesb.wa.gov/AlternativeRoutes/Alt%20Cert%20Grant%20Press%20Release1.pdf

   STATE OF WASHINGTON PROFESSIONAL EDUCATOR STANDARDS BOARD Old Capitol
   Building, PO Box 47236 Olympia, WA 98504-3113 (360) 725-6275
   www.pesb.wa.gov FOR RELEASE: December 14, 2001 GRANTS AWARDED FOR
   ALTERNATIVE ROUTES TO TEACHER CERTIFICATION OLYMPIA  The Professional
   Educator Standards Board (PESB) has awarded $2 million in grants to
   school districts partnered with teacher preparation programs to pilot
   implementation of new routes to teacher certification. The 2001
   Legislature adopted the criteria established by PESB for three
   alternative routes to certification specifically designed for current
   district employees who are classified instructional staff and for
   degreed professionals such as engineers or mathematicians interested in
   a career change. "There has been tremendous interest in alternative
   route programs on the part of individuals wanting to become teachers",
   said Tom Charouhas, chair of the Washington Professional Educator
   Standards Board (PESB). "Since the passage of legislation establishing
   the three routes we recommended, the PESB has received hundreds of
   emails, letters and phone calls. This pilot grant program creates new
   relationships between districts and higher education teacher
   preparation programs that will enable districts to grow their own
   teachers to fill critical shortages." "This program will act as a
   stimulus for the profession and will enable us to attract additional
   qualified individuals into teaching," said Monte Bridges, assistant
   superintendent of instructional services at Puget Sound Educational
   Service District and the lead contact for the Puget Sound Partnership.
   Dr. Lynn Beck, dean of the School of Education at Pacific Lutheran
   University and the lead contact for the South Sound Partnership said,
   "We are very excited. This is a wonderful chance for the districts,
   Green River Community College and Pacific Lutheran University to work
   together on alternative routes to teacher certification." The grants
   were awarded to three consortia of school districts and higher
   education institutions to provide one or more of these routes to
   certification: ß for paraeducators or instructional aides with
   associate degrees seeking certification in special education or English
   as a second language (Route1); ß for classified staff with college
   degrees seeking certification in subject matter shortage areas or areas
   with shortages due to geographic location (Route2); and ß for
   individuals with baccalaureate degrees who are not currently employed
   in a school district, or who hold emergency substitute certificates.
   Priority will be given to those who want to teach subjects where
   teachers are in short supply such as math and science or in areas of
   the state with shortages (Route 3). Grants Awarded for Alternative
   Routes to Teacher Certification December 14, 2001 Page 2 of 3 Grant
   monies will be used to provide stipends for teacher certification
   interns and mentors. In addition, each of the partnerships includes
   substantial in-kind funding from the districts involved to further
   support and expand their programs. According to Dennis Matthews,
   assistant superintendent for specialized student services at
   Educational Service District 112, and Ann Hutchison, special education
   cooperative program manager for Educational Service District 112 and
   lead for the Southwest Washington Consortium for Teacher Development,
   this is a great opportunity that benefits Southwest Washington by
   developing quality special education teachers for children with
   disabilities. In developing the requirements for alternative routes to
   teacher certification, the PESB identified these characteristics for
   each of the three routes: ß internships of one year or less
   complemented by training and coursework on a flexible timetable. The
   programs are "open exit," rather than a set period of time for all
   candidates; ß partnerships between districts and higher education
   preparation programs, with all training and formal learning
   opportunities provided on or near school district sites, online, or via
   the K-20 network; and ß a teacher development plan that specifies the
   alternative route requirements for each candidate, comparing the
   candidate's prior experience and educational background with standards
   for residency certification and adjusting requirements accordingly.
   "The strength of Washington's alternative route program is that it
   maintains our high standards for teacher certification while providing
   more flexible, expedient, less costly routes to attaining
   certification," said Jennifer Wallace, executive director of the PESB.
   "This is an exciting new way to attract men and women with valuable
   expertise and experience into the teaching profession." The successful
   partnerships include participation by the following: ß The Southwest
   Washington Consortium for Teacher Development, offering all three
   routes, and including the districts of Battle Ground, Camas, Castle
   Rock, Evergreen, Longview, Kelso, Ocean Beach, Stevenson-Carson,
   Vancouver, Washougal, White Salmon, and Woodland; Educational Service
   District 112; and higher education partner City University and the
   Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory; ß The South Sound
   Partnership, offering all three routes, and including the districts of
   Auburn, Clover Park, Franklin Pierce, Puyallup, Sumner and Tacoma and
   higher education partners Pacific Lutheran University and Green River
   Community College; and ß The Puget Sound Partnership for Alternative
   Routes to Teacher Certification, offering routes 2 and 3 and including
   the districts of Bethel, Dieringer, Enumclaw, Federal Way, Highline,
   Kent, Lake Washington, Mercer Island, Northshore, Orting, Renton,
   Riverview, Seattle, Skykomish, Snoqualmie Valley, Steilacoom, Tacoma,
   Tukwila, University Place, Vashon Island, and White River; the Puget
   Sound Educational Service District; and higher education partner
   Seattle Pacific University. Grants Awarded for Alternative Routes to
   Teacher Certification December 14, 2001 Page 3 of 3 Washington also
   received a $1.2 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education for
   the Transition to Teaching program that will expand the alternative
   route for degreed professionals seeking to enter the teaching
   profession. This program will begin next year. Washington's grant was
   the largest award received by a state. -xx- Information: Professional
   Educator Standards Board (360) 725-6275 Southwest Washington Consortium
   for Teacher Development Ann Hutchison (360) 750-7500 The South Sound
   Partnership Dr. Lynn Beck (253) 535-7272 Puget Sound Partnership for
   Alternative Routes to Teacher Certification Monte Bridges (206)
   439-6905 About the Professional Educator Standards Board The
   Professional Educator Standards Board (PESB) helps ensure the highest
   standards for all educators certified by the state, including teachers,
   principals, administrators, and other education specialists. The
   20-member board advises the State Board of Education, Superinte ndent
   of Public Instruction, Governor and Legislature on the full range of
   issues affecting educator professions, including recruitment, hiring,
   certification, mentoring, professional development, retention,
   evaluation, and revocation and suspension of lic ensure. For more
   information on the PESB, visit www.pesb.wa.gov.
