http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/programs.htm

   [Ellen%20Map.jpg]

                    Programs & Services

   [USEMAP:buttons.jpg] Backyard Conservation - Bringing conservation from
   the countryside to your backyard.

   Conservation Buffers - The Iowa buffer partnership continues to be
   active in promoting buffers and continuous CRP.

   Conservation Operations - Conservation operations is the NRCS
   day-to-day technical assistance program.

   Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) -  Is a USDA
   conservation cost-share program designed to encourage and support
   conservation of natural resources on private lands on a voluntary
   basis. Fore more information on EQIP visit the EQIP Program Fact Sheet.
   Click here for the latest EQIP news release:  Iowa NRCS Receives
   Additional EQIP funds; $1.9 Million Now Available

   Envirothon - Find out more about this exciting program for high school

   Farmland Protection Program - Group dedicated to slow the rate of
   conversion of prime and unique agricultural land to urban development.

   Forestry Incentives Program (FIP) - supports good forest management
   practices on privately owned, non-industrial forest lands nationwide

   Grazing Land Conservation Initiative - works directly with landowners,
   private groups, and NRCS staff to demonstrate and assist landowners on
   how to implement prescribed grazing plans.

   Manure Management - Provides a vehicle for a coordinated and
   comprehensive approach to improve manure management in Iowa.

   Plant Materials - The Elsberry Plant Materials Center serving Iowa
   released 27 trees, shrubs and native grass and forb seed species to
   Iowa seed growers who produce seed and bare root stock for conservation
   purposes.

   Resource, Conservation, and Development (RC&D) - Works in communities
   to complete a wide variety of natural resource and community
   development projects

   Small Watershed Program - Planning for watershed project
   rehabilitation.

   Soil Survey - Modern soil surveys are available in all 99 Iowa
   Counties.

   Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP) - provides technical and financial
   assistance to willing owners of eligible lands to restore, create, or
   enhance wetlands through conservation easements and restoration
   cost-share agreements to improve migratory birds and wildlife habitat,
   improve water quality, and aid in flood control and ground water
   recharge.

   Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP) - A voluntary program that
   helps landowners develop wildlife habitat on private lands.

   Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) - encourages farmers to convert
   highly erodible cropland or other environmentally sensitive acreage to
   vegetative cover, such as tame or native grasses, wildlife plantings,
   trees, filter strips, or riparian buffers. Farmers receive an annual
   rental payment for the term of the multi-year contract cost sharing to
   establish the vegetative cover practices. CRP reduces soil erosion,
   improves water quality, establishes wildlife habitat, and enhances
   forest and wetland resources.

   Electronic Forms
     * CCC-1250 and NRCS-LTP-1:  Application for Long-Term Contracted
       Assistance
     * CCC-1257 and NRCS-LTP-24:  Notice of Intent to Continue
     * CCC-1202 and NRCS FNM-141:  Application for Payment
