http://eas.oes.ca.gov/Pages/easfaq.htm

   California - The Golden State   California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                        Page

                           EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

   Call the EAS Program Manager at 916-845-8603 with questions or email to
   EAS_PM@oes.ca.gov or FAX 916-845-8606.

   These are questions that have been asked at recent Local Emergency
   Communications Committee (LECC) meetings, briefings on the EAS, and via
   e-mail. The Emergency Broadcast System (EBS) was established in 1963.
   It was
   replaced with the Emergency Alert System (EAS) nationwide by January 1,
   1997. This required totally new electronic equipment to accommodate the
   digital plus aural EAS format. Like the EBS, the EAS is a warning
   system. It
   is to be used to provide the public with immediate messages that affect
   life
   and property. The most common reasons to activate the EBS / EAS today
   include
   9-1-1 system failures, tornado and other severe weather warnings,
   hazardous
   material inci- dents, tsunami warnings, evacuation orders, and other
   threats. A threat may be widespread or just a few blocks.

   This FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) will grow. Remember: there is no
   such
   thing as a "dumb question." We all learn from these exchanges and they
   are
   cheaper than meetings.


                                   EAS FAQ
   _______________________________________________________________________



   "What is the EAS?"

   The EAS is only for WARNING of an imminent threat to life or property.

   The Emergency Alert System (EAS) replaced the 1963 Emergency Broadcast

   System on January 1, 1997 --- the same time the New Year's Floods hit

   California. Cable television industry participation followed later.

   Some major features of the EAS include the ability for stations to

   automatically rebroadcast a warning without human intervention and a
   clear

   text warning for TV.

   Participation in the EAS by the nation's broadcasters is voluntary
   EXCEPT

   in the event of a National emergency; i.e., the only EAS message they
   MUST

   carry is the warning of a National emergency by or for the White House.

   Besides the never-used White House or Federal activation of the EAS,
   there

   are three primary participants in the EAS: (1) )The broadcasters (AM,
   FM,

   and TV stations and the CATV industry). (2) The National Weather
   Service for

   weather-related warnings. (3) State and local emergency management
   agencies

   for civil emergencies.

   The FCC appoints the Chairs of each State Emergency Communications

   Committee (SECC). The Chair of the California SECC is James Gabbert,

   KOFY-TV, San Francisco.

   The SECC divides each state into workable Local Areas and appoints a
   Chair

   of each LECC. All the broadcasters, National Weather Service, cable TV

   companies, and the emergency management officials in a Local Area
   comprise

   the Local Emergency Communications Committee.

   All FCC Emergency Communications Committee people who serve are
   volunteers.

   These committees are responsible for preparing the State and local EAS

   plans. The California State EAS Plan is the sum total of the Local Area

   plans.

   The Local Area chairs are responsible for keeping their area informed

   via e-mail, fax, mail, telephone calls, and meetings.

   The broadcasters and CATV firms answer to the Federal Communications

   Commission and its Rules & Regulations --- not to state or local

   governments.

   "I never heard about the EAS until now. Why?"

   Every emergency management agency director or coordinator must be
   contacted

   by the FCC Local Area chair or committee person. The civil defense
   people

   should be on the LECC. The responsibility for meeting and briefing
   public

   officials rests with the Local Emergency Communications Committee.

   "What is EDIS?"

   EDIS stands for the Emergency Digital Information Service.

   EDIS voluntarily supplements the Emergency Alert System (EAS).

   Typical EDIS messages are WARNINGS and WATCHES from the National
   Weather

   Service, any WARNING and EAS ACTIVATION REQUESTED message from an
   office of emergency services, earthquake reports from the USGS,
   emergency public

   information (EPI) and announcements from any authorized source. In
   short,

   the EDIS is effective because it (a) always goes to a stand-alone
   printer

   that (b) usually displays only "hard news."

   EDIS was jointly created by the San Francisco Bay Area television
   industry

   and the State Office of Emergency Services telecommunications division
   as

   the result of the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake.

   The FCC has always required (EBS rules since 1963) that television
   stations

   provide clear text of Warnings and emergency public information for the

   hearing impaired. The FCC levied fines against Bay Area television
   stations

   following the Loma Prieta earthquake because the hearing impaired were
   not

   accommodated as required by the FCC.

   The EDIS now (since c. 1991) delivers warnings and emergency public

   information from government agencies in digital form to "clients" via
   VHF

   and UHF radio transmitters serving California's major populations
   centers.

   The primary clients of EDIS are TV stations. The digital messages can

   program their character generators to provide clear text on the screen
   with

   the minimum of TV station staff labor; i.e., no one has to re-type the

   messages.

   The secondary clients of the EDIS are offices of emergency services,
   radio

   broadcast stations, newspapers, news bureaus, fire and police stations,

   volunteers in government service, public safety communications centers,

   communications centers serving the hearing impaired, security firms,

   corporations, private individuals and others.

   The EDIS, in a "demonstration" or "beta test" mode since its inception,
   is

   not funded by any government. State OES Telecommunications and
   broadcast

   participants have worked together on a voluntary basis and with
   second-hand

   transmitters and hardware.

   All that is required to receive EDIS transmissions in real time are
   three

   items that can be acquired for $200 to $500: a radio receiver, a
   digital

   terminal node controller, and a printer. A computer is not required.
   State

   OES provides installation and operating instructions.

   The areas served by EDIS as of March l997 were the San Francisco Bay
   area,

   the central valley from about Chico to Merced, the greater Los Angeles
   area,

   and the San Diego area. Expansion plans were implemented in July l999.

   County OES agencies can and should access the EDIS whenever they
   activate

   the Emergency Alert System (EAS) so that their message can be promptly

   delivered to every TV station within range of an EDIS transmitter.
   Access to

   the EDIS by State and authorized local government officials is done by
   any

   computer with a telephone modem or via the OASIS satellite system.

   The more information provided the media reduces the number of call-ins
   to

   agencies that can often ill afford the time and the telephone
   congestion.

   The EDIS has proven to have a positive affect in this regard.

   The State Office of Emergency Services actively promotes the use of the

   EDIS by the local emergency services offices uploading messages and the

   primary and secondary clients who download those messages.

   "Where do we buy the new FCC Type-Accepted EAS equipment?"

   As of January 3, 1997, the following companies have been certified by
   the

   FCC to sell EAS equipment:

   1. SAGE ALERTING SYSTEMS, INC.

   700 CANAL STREET

   STAMFORD, CT 06902

   203/357-1464

   SALES: 800-621-0022

   FCC ID: MAX1822

   2. TFT, INC.

   3090 OAKMEAD VILLAGE DRIVE

   SANTA CLARA, CA 95051-0862

   408/727-7272

   BROADCASTERS: 1-800-443-0728

   GOVERNMENTS: 1-800-397-4139

   FCC ID: BIOEAS911

   3. M&N ELECTRONICS

   SUITE 202

   2921 LACKLAND ROAD

   FORTH WORTH, TX 76116

   817-595-3050

   FCC ID: M46HU-961

   4. GORMAN-REDLICH MANUFACTURING CO.

   6 CURTIS STREET

   ATHENS, OH 45701

   614-593-3150, 592-3898 FAX 593-3150

   HTTP://WWW.GORMAN-REDLICH.COM

   FCC ID: MVZEAS1

   5. BURK TECHNOLOGY INC.

   7 BEAVER BROOK ROAD

   LITTLETON, MA 01460

   508-486-0081, 800-255-8090

   FCC ID: M9EEAS

   6. MULTI-TECHNICAL SERVICES CORP.

   150 CLAYTON COMMERCE CENTER

   CLAYTON, NC 27520

   919-553-2995

   FCC ID: HTG3000D

   7. HOLLYANNE CORP.

   207 WEST O'CONNOR AVENUE

   GREELEY, NE 68842

   888-4EAS-INFO, 308-428-4705

   IN CONCORD, CA, CALL 510-687-9990

   IN SANTA BARBARA, CA, CALL 805-682-9429

   Factory: 402-426-4841

   FCC ID: GRQMIP-921

   "Are there any criteria that would exempt a cable operator from being

   required to implement an EAS system, primarily number of subscribers?"

   See latest Cable criteria as issued by the FCC

   "How does a cable system that is retransmitting a distant (outside the
   CATV

   company's local area) off-air station handle that station's EAS? What
   are

   the requirements of the cable system in Palm Springs?"

   See latest Cable criteria as issued by the FCC.

   "Government agencies have to buy the new EAS hardware per the FCC?"

   No. The FCC Rules (new Part 11) apply to the broadcast and cable TV

   industry. If government agencies, or anyone else for that matter, does
   not

   acquire the new EAS decode hardware, however, they may be unaware that
   the

   broadcasters are carrying an EAS message of which local government is

   unaware. The broadcasters and the National Weather Service are under no

   requirement or obligation to "clear" a severe weather warning with
   local

   authorities. To do so would unnecessarily delay a vital warning.

   "What are Local Area zones?"

   Some FCC Local Areas (one or more counties) are so large that there may
   be

   two or more population centers that are isolated from one another;
   i.e., the

   two or more "zones" within that Local Area cannot reliably hear or see
   each

   other's broadcasters. The LECC should select an appoint a station (AM,
   FM,

   TV, or in rare instances, a CATV company) to be an LP2 station for the
   other

   station(s) and CATV firm(s) in that Zone. The LECC is then challenged
   to

   plan and solve the necessary inter-zone message links: radio or TV
   broadcast

   station? Cable TV? Local government radio and/or microwave system
   (Police,

   Fire, Local Government)? Dialup-telephone call? Inter-city microwave?

   National Weather Service Radio? Existing leased line(s)? Donated
   industrial

   microwave channel? Alpha-numeric paging system? Cellular telephone
   service?

   Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service system? These and others are
   possible

   solutions. Pick the best. A viable EAS is a partnership between

   broadcasters/ cablecasters, the National Weather Service, and local

   governments.

   "If we have zones, they'll have their own LECC, right?"

   No. An LECC is comprised of every broadcast and CATV firm in the Local

   Area, one or more of the NWS offices serving the Local Area and,
   hopefully,

   representatives from Local Area emergency management offices, Public
   Safety,

   and all FCC Radio Services. A Local Area may be subdivided into

   two or more zones with each having an LP2 station.

   "What is the LP1 station's primary audience?"

   As strange as it may seem, it is not the public. The primary audience
   of

   every LP1 (and LP2) station is all the other LP (AM, FM, and TV)
   stations

   and CATV companies in their FCC Local Area of responsibility. Then,
   both

   simultaneously and subsequently, the secondary audience becomes the

   listening and viewing public. LP1 station personnel must understand
   that,

   whereas their station may not serve a distant locale to be warned,
   there are

   broadcasters and cable casters who do and depend upon receiving the
   message

   from the LP1 station (s).

   "What are FIPS codes?" (Revised)

   These are numbers programmed into the header of any transmission from
   an

   EAS encoder. Every county has a distinct FIPS code. It is a geographic

   address. In special cases there may be a need to further sub-divide a
   county

   geographically with specific FIPS codes. This is normally done only to

   geographically target a specific potential hazard -- not simply to
   separate

   communities. A potential or unusual hazard might be a nuclear power
   plant,

   hazardous material site, a dam, volcano, or similar specific point.

   The digit zero (0) means the entire county. Digits 1 through 9 are

   available for up to nine specific hazard sites. Avoid the temptation to
   use

   one or more digits other than "0". It should be considered only to
   identify

   a hazard -- not to separate urban areas. An exception is where a county
   has

   communities (Zones) that are widely separated from one another -- so
   far

   that broadcast stations in one Zone do not serve another Zone. In this
   case,

   using "0" serves no purpose when the county is so large it cannot be
   covered

   by the LP1 station.

   One make of EAS terminals reportedly ignores transmissions that do not

   carry its geographic FIPS code for automatic retransmission; another

   reportedly is not so affected. This may be a planning factor to be
   worked

   out with your vendor.

   If further subdivision of a county is required, the SECC shall work
   this

   out with NOAA-National Weather Service and/or local emergency
   management

   officials. Keep in mind the factors described above. There are pros and

   cons.

   "What is an LP1S station? Do we need one?"

   Do you have two or more Spanish language stations in your FCC Local
   Area?

   If so, consider recruiting one to be the LP1S (LP1-Spanish) that will

   translate the LP1 messages into Spanish and transmit them to their
   Spanish

   speaking audience AND other Spanish language stations that will be
   assigned

   to monitor the LP1 and the LP1S stations. An LP1S might be able to
   serve

   other Spanish LP station in a "region" larger than its own Local Area.
   We

   will be pleased to help you assemble Spanish language EAS networks.

   "Should we convene a full-fledged EAS meeting to complete the LECC

   Questionnaire?"

   No. It should able to be completed in a couple of hours (for a small
   Local

   Area and longer for multi-county or multi-broadcast station Local
   Area). In

   some Areas, the Chair can accomplish it. In other, the Chair creates a
   2 or

   3 person technical committee to design the system unique to your Local
   Area.

   No two are alike.

   "What's the best way to convene a full-fledged EAS meeting?"

   Let the EAS Plans Coordinator know the date, time (from when to when),
   and

   the location of the venue. With enough lead time we can have the FCC

   Washington send out the letters of invitation to all the broadcast

   licensees. This has a very positive affect on attendance. It is
   necessary

   that the license owners or general managers attend because they are the

   decision makers. They are encouraged to bring their chief engineer,
   program

   director, and news director -- but it is emphasized that a policy maker

   attend. Whether or not a station attends, be advised that they are
   bound by

   the decisions finalized by an LECC Chair and approved by the SECC. An

   official EAS meeting must include the National Weather Service, the
   CATV

   Vice- or Co-Chair, and broadcast station decision makers. An official
   EAS

   meeting should include the Chair of each neighboring Local Area, the

   C.E./News Director/and/or P.D. of your Local Area stations, any CATV
   reps,

   and your emergency management official(s). Any State Chair can use this

   procedure.

   "How can you attend all our LECC meetings?"

   We can do the next best thing. You can have a speaker-phone telecon
   with

   us. Set a time and call us with your concerns and questions with the
   rest

   of your group. If you want us to be the "heavy" in some issue or other,

   we're happy to take that off your shoulders. Or if you need
   reinforcement

   from the SECC or FCC, that's what we are here to assist you with.

   "Who writes the Local Area Plan in California?"

   You do not need to. Complete the LECC Questionnaire. Send it to the EAS

   Plans Coordinator, making sure it is completed in every respect

   It will be finalized with the Local Area chair, printed, sent to the

   Local chair for signatures. Once signed the original is returned to

   the EAS Program Manager for signatures of the SECC and FCC. The LECC

   chair eventually get the complete plan once approved by the FCC
   Washington.

   "Does every broadcaster and CATV serving my Local Area have to have
   their

   equipment installed and operating in accordance with the approved EAS
   Plan

   before we can `turn on' the new EAS?"

   Yes.

   "What is the criteria for an LP2 station?"

   Besides one being a backup and redundant to the LP1, LP2s are sometimes

   necessary to provide extended reach beyond that possible day and night
   by

   the LP1. An LP2 need not be staffed so long as all EAS activations loop

   through the station automatically. There can be one or more LP2
   stations in

   the same Local Area. An LP2 station near the border of an adjoining
   Local

   Area should serve both areas; i.e., it should be equipped to monitor
   both

   FIPS codes.

   The LP2 station(s) monitor their LP1. If they have listeners/ viewers
   in

   neighboring Local Areas they should monitor any participating station
   across

   "the border." Participating in this sense is one that is on the air
   24-hours

   and is committed to carrying all selected EAS weather and civil
   emergency

   event codes.

   "I've heard there is a published handbook on the EAS. Who? Where?"

   Contact your local chapter or the national office of the SBE (Society
   of

   Broadcast Engineers) at (317) 253-1640.

   "How important is it that Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs) and/or
   Public

   Safety communications centers purchase the new equipment for the EAS?"

   Very important! There is no way from them to generate the necessary
   digital

   codes before and after a warning message (or even a not-for-broadcast

   advise- ray) without the new equipment. Until they (a) have the new EAS

   equipment and (b) a local radio system to transport it to the
   broadcasters

   and CATV (cable television distribution) firms, they will have to
   telephone

   an LP1 station "the old fashioned way." This will take Public Safety
   and

   emergency management officials longer to simply put out information

   bulletins -- or not at all. Another common complaint from Comm Center

   managers is that they don't like unexpected surprises. If and when the

   EAS is activated, their telephones can light up like a Christmas tree.

   "What emergency?" They can be the last to know! By having the EAS
   equipment

   in the Comm Center, they will know the same time the media does that,
   say,

   the National Weather Service has just issued a Warning with evacuation

   instructions.

   "Did you say the chief engineer should not be the Chair of an FCC Local

   Area Emergency Communications Committee (LECC)?"

   No. What we did say is that the EAS is no longer primarily a technical

   issue as it was in the Sixties while the EBS was being brought up to
   speed.

   The LECC should be comprised of the station owners or general managers.

   Why? It is necessary that the DECISION MAKERS be at LECC meetings
   because

   they will make decisions at those meetings that will bind

   their station's participation. How many meetings have you been to where
   an

   attendee thought some proposal was a great idea -- but that he/she
   would

   have to go back and sell the boss on the idea? The committee person
   with

   authority is certainly encouraged to bring their P.D., News Director,
   and

   Chief Engineer to the meetings. The bottom line, however, is that
   authority

   and commitments usually cannot be delegated.

   "Define for me in simple terms the EBS and the EAS. Why is the EAS
   better?

   The EBS:

   1. Either the NWS or OES / CD telephones the CPCS-1 (now called the
   LP1)

   station on the phone. The station may or may not answer within four
   rings.

   The NWS, understandably, may hang up and not call again.

   2. The LP1 station answers. The caller states the need to activate the
   EBS.

   The LP1 station employee is supposed to promptly start a recorder and

   instruct the caller to count down, read the warning message and
   standby.

   3. The LP1 station operator checks the recording and, if acceptable,

   terminates the call.

   4. The LP1 station operator re-cues the recording, interrupts
   programming,

   and activates the EBS tone encoder.

   5. The LP1 station operator transmits the 8-second EBS tones and
   announces

   to all other broadcast stations (who are required to monitor the LP1

   station) to standby for an EBS activation that concerns a (type of)
   warning

   in the (name of) area. At this point the LP1's audience is all the

   broadcasters in the local area -- so long as there is anyone on duty to
   hear

   and respond to their EBS decoder. Those who do are expected to
   immediately

   dump their programming and put their EBS receiver on the air to receive
   and

   retransmit the LP1. This never happens.

   6. The LP1 transmits the 8-second EBS tones again, followed by the
   message

   received from the authorized official. In theory, all the other LP
   stations

   are simulcasting the LP1 broadcast. Theoretically. In reality it seldom

   works. Result? Only the LP1 station audience hears the warning. The
   warning

   is a dismal failure.

   The EAS:

   1. The NWS transmits the warning bulletin with the EAS digital opening
   and

   closing over their NWR transmitter. It is received by all NWR-receiver

   equipped EAS decoders-- attended or not.

   2. The digital commands enable any station to either (a) record for

   selective release or (b) automatically "loop through" the station. That

   means the EAS equipment automatically kills the program, puts the
   warning

   message on the air, and restores programming. No one need be in
   attendance.

   Summary: Whereas the EBS requires 6 steps that seldom works, the EAS
   does

   work in only 2 or 3 steps.

   "Local Area definition?"

   A Local Area is one or more counties that comprise an FCC Local
   Emergency

   Communications Committee's area of responsibility. Who are the EAS

   participants? Virtually every AM, FM, and TV station in every (FCC)
   Local

   Area in the United States (with a very few exceptions); AND every CATV
   firm

   serving that Local Area.

   "Can or should a station in an adjoining Local Area be a part of your

   Area?"

   Yes, if they have listeners or viewers in your FCC Local Area. They
   will

   actually be a station of record in their Area of license, but they can
   have

   a receiver on one of your Area stations so that they can serve both.

   Remembers, neither broadcast signals nor weather respect political

   boundaries!

   "Which comes first, the State Plan or the Local Plans?"

   It would presumptuous for the SECC of a large state to tell the Local
   Areas

   what to do. In California, the State Plan is the sum of the Local
   Plans. The

   locals are best equipped to prepare best what will work for them. The
   SECC

   may make decisions in the absence of appropriate or timely local
   planning.

   "Does any weather warning have to go first through local officials?"

   No. To do so would only delay the warning. NWS Warnings go direct to
   the

   broadcasters and CATV firms one of two ways: (1) By National Weather
   Radio

   (NWR) or (2) a telephonic message from the NWS Forecast Office to the
   LP1

   station if (a) there is no NWR serving the Local Area LP1 or (b) if the
   NWR

   is off the air for any reason.

   "What is the Required Monthly Test (RMT)?"

   This is new. It requires the LP1 to transmit a scheduled monthly test
   that

   must be broadcast by all stations and CATV. This is not optional. In
   odd-

   numbered months it is done in the daytime and in the even-numbered
   months it

   is performed at night. See the FCC Part 11 Rules for details. It
   requires

   the RMT be carried either simulcast or no more than 15 minutes delay.
   We

   urge that it be a true end-to-end test that exercises all personnel and

   equipment. How? By originating the RMT in one or more of the Emergency

   Operations Centers (EOCs); i.e., from the EOC to the LP1 or all LPs via
   a

   local government radio system.

   "Can a TV station be the LP1?"

   Yes. Although not common, sometimes the Local Area TV station is better

   staffed and willing to perform the vital LP1 duties than any radio
   station.

   They may also have better coverage -- over the air and by CATV. The
   LECC

   determines what stations will be the LP1, LP2s, etc.

   "Our LP1 station is in a reception hole and cannot receive either a NWR

   transmitter or neighboring Area LP1. What can we do?"

   We found several cases wherein the AM station was in "an r-f hole" --
   but

   their FM station was on a mountain top that "can hear the world."
   Solution?

   Put a receiver on the mountaintop and feed the signal back to the
   studio on

   the FM subcarrier; the subcarrier receiver output is fed to one of the
   EAS

   decoder audio input ports.

   "What is your criteria for LP1 stations?

   1. The station is broadcasts 24 hours. It need not be attended if their
   EAS

   terminal allows direct-to-air any EAS activation message received by
   any

   automatic means. For a civil emergency activation other than the
   National

   Weather Service, this will require that the initiator have an EAS
   terminal.

   2. The management is committed to "being the best there is" when it
   comes

   to promptly and correctly processing EAS activation requests. The
   management

   is committed to training and assuring that staff operations personnel
   --

   both fulltime and parttime -- know what to do. An LP1 sees an EAS
   activation

   as being a true "audience grabber"; it is real news bulletin.

   The LP1 and LP2 stations agree to carry all local activations spelled
   out

   in their EAS Plan Communications Operations Order regardless of whether
   or

   not they have listeners or viewers in their own coverage. For the EAS,
   the

   LP1 and LP2 audience is primarily all the other broadcasters, CATV
   firms,

   and Public Safety agencies tuned to them --- not the listening and
   viewing

   public.

   3. Whereas having a wireservice that carried NWS requests to activate
   the

   EBS was highly desirable for the EBS, it is no longer critical in the
   EAS --

   so long as the LP1 is served by a NWR transmitter.

   4. Any broadcast studio-transmitter should have emergency power, it is
   not

   required to be an LP1 or LP2 -- so long as the other LP stations can
   monitor

   at least one station having backup power.

   5. The power or coverage of an LP1 station is not important compared to
   the

   first three items above. That is because the EAS is a "web" than
   enables

   multiple paths for an EAS message. Who monitors who IS important.

   6. The LP1 station should monitor the LP1 for any adjoining Area(s).

   Broadcast signals ignore political boundaries. Other radio inputs at
   the LP1

   include NWR, the CLERS, and any local government radio system that may
   be

   used for the EAS.

   "We don't have an LECC Vice-Chair for CATV yet. How important is it?"

   It is important. Make every effort to have one. The SECC may decline

   to approve a plan without such a vice-chair.

   "What signatures are required on a completed and SECC-approved LECC
   Plan?"

   1. LECC Chair.

   2. LECC Co-Chair (or Vice-Chair) for CATV.

   3. National Weather Service meteorologist from the office having

   responsibility for the Local Area.

   4. SECC Chair

   5. EAS Office, FCC, Washington, D.C.

   Concurrence signatures may appear on a separate page.

   "How are the various Communications Operations Orders (COOs)
   accomplished?"

   1. Receive an LECC Questionnaire from the SECC, complete it, and return
   it.

   This is usually preceded by a working meeting between the SECC
   Vice-Chair

   and the LECC Chair.

   2. LECC Chair completes the LECC Questionnaire and sends it to SECC EAS

   Plans Coordinator.

   3. State OES drafts COOs based on the input and returns draft to the
   LECC

   for "fine tuning." LECC returns corrected draft to SECC EAS Plans

   Coordinator

   4. EAS Plans Coordinator completes writing and printing final COOs and

   a signatory concurrence page. Returns them to the LECC Chair for

   duplication preparatory to a complete LECC meeting.

   5. Hold a complete and official LECC meeting. COO's are presented,

   explained, discussed and approved. Signatures are obtained.

   6. The completed COOs now constitute the Local Area's part of the State
   EAS

   Plan. The Local Area's EAS Plan is forwarded to the SECC EAS Plans

   Coordinator for SECC and FCC approvals. When these are obtained the
   plan

   is forwarded to the LECC Chair for distribution.

   NOTE: Any station or CATV firm NOT represented in LECC deliberations or

   planning IS subject to the committee's determinations.

   "Can there be cases of overlapping EAS warning areas?"

   Yes. Again, broadcast signals ignore political boundaries. You are
   urged to

   includes the FIPS codes for stations in neighboring Local Areas. Some

   examples in California are: (1) The portions of the three California

   counties in the Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit are a part of the
   Western

   Nevada-Lake Tahoe Local Area of the state of Nevada. (2) California's
   Del

   Norte County and Oregon's Curry County broadcasters and CATV firms

   co-activate on either's EAS activations. (3) Santa Maria stations, in
   Santa

   Barbara County, will respond to activations of either Santa Barbara or
   San

   Luis Obispo counties. The latter county has a nuclear power plant. With
   the

   consolidation of NWS facilities, much of California is administered by
   NWS

   Forecast Offices in Oregon, Nevada, and Arizona. Every state must take
   these

   into their planning considerations.

   "In a State OES EAS handout you show `LG RADIO'. What is that?"

   That means any local government Public Safety radio system that may be
   used

   as the medium to distribute state or local EAS programming. The State
   of

   California CLERS (California Law Enforcement Radio System) system is
   used

   for this purpose. Some counties use one of their own systems to cover a

   Local Area. In a multi-county area a multi-county system must be used
   or

   there would only be partial coverage. Your technical subcommittee must
   work

   closely with the emergency management agencies involved.

   "Briefly explain the specifics of the weekly and monthly EAS testing

   procedures."

   EAS testing will be performed on a weekly basis and each station must

   receive and transmit one test every week. The tests consist of a
   Required

   Weekly Test and a Required Monthly Test.

   1) Required Weekly Test [See 11.61(a)(2)] The Required Weekly Test
   consists

   of the EAS header codes and End of Message codes. A brief announcement
   may

   be used to introduce the test. This test will take approximately 10
   seconds

   to conduct. Each station may transmit the weekly test at any time
   during the

   week. There is no requirement to re-transmit a weekly test upon
   receipt.

   Therefore, stations may schedule broadcasts of Weekly Tests at their

   convenience.

   2) Required Monthly Test [See 11.61(a)(1)] The Required Monthly Test

   consists of (1) the EAS header codes, (2) at least eight seconds of the

   two-tone attention signal, (3) an audio test script, (4) the End of
   Message

   codes. The monthly test can last approximately 30 seconds. Monthly
   Tests are

   originated by the Local Primary Stations or State Primary Stations.
   Monthly

   Tests will be conducted between 8:30 AM and local sunset on odd
   numbered

   months and between local sunset and 8:30 AM on even numbered months.
   Unlike

   the Weekly Test, the Monthly Test must be re-transmitted within 15
   minutes

   of receipt. There in no need to send a weekly test during the week that
   a

   Monthly Test is= performed.

   In regard to the Monthly Test Rule 11.61(a)(1)(iii), stations are
   required

   to retransmit the Monthly Test within 15 minutes of receipt. Will
   Stations

   with long playing formats have to break into programming to deliver a

   monthly test within 15 minutes of receipt?

   There are no exceptions to the rule unless there is an equipment
   failure.

   However, the Monthly Test should be pre-scheduled so that everyone
   knows

   when it is coming. Therefore, stations with long playing formats will
   be

   able to plan around the Monthly Test.

   When a station goes off the air at night, what do they do about the
   Monthly

   Test received at night?

   The EAS equipment will receive and record the Monthly Test performed at

   night. The station can then transmit the monthly test within 15 minutes

   after morning sign on. Since the monthly tests are scheduled, the
   station

   will know in advance when they have to perform this action.

   "Who decides the schedule for issuing Monthly Tests?"

   Local Primary Stations and State Primary Stations decide exactly when
   the

   monthly tests shall occur. Local Primary Stations are encouraged to
   plan the

   process at the local level with all effected stations and pick a time
   which

   is convenient to all participating stations.

   "If my station is monitoring multiple sources, what do we do when we
   receive

   multiple Monthly Tests? For example, if my station is monitoring three

   broadcast stations, we may receive three Monthly Tests at three
   different

   times."

   The Monthly test should be sent within 15 minutes of the original
   receipt.

   In addition, if the original receipt is still in the memory of the EAS

   Decoder, then the Decoder will recognize the second and third receipts
   as

   duplicates and not record them. The EAS Decoder will recognize
   duplicate

   messages by reading the header codes. Also you should be able to select
   the

   Monthly Test that contains the location code for your county or city of

   license.

   "When Monthly Tests occur, will a viewer watching a broadcast station
   on a

   cable channel see two interruptions? One by the broadcast station and
   one by

   the cable company."

   If the cable system is also required to send the monthly test on all

   channels, most likely yes. However, cable systems may elect not to
   interrupt

   broadcast stations based on written agreements between all concerned

   parties.

   "The Commission's Rules require that each participant monitor at least
   two

   sources with the EAS Decoder. Does monitoring a NOAA weather station
   count

   as one of the two required sources?"

   Monitoring a NOAA weather station counts as one of the two required
   sources

   only if it is specified that way in the FCC approved State EAS Plan.
   The

   State EAS Plan will list at least two required monitoring sources for
   each

   operational area. Each station should be sure to monitor, at minimum,
   the

   sources listed in the State's EAS Plan for their respective EAS local
   area.

   "What if my station can not receive the sources listed in the State EAS

   Plan?"

   If a station can not receive the sources listed in the State EAS Plan,

   alternate arrangements or a waiver may be obtained by written request
   to the

   FCC's EAS Office. In an emergency, a waiver may be issued over the
   telephone

   with a follow-up letter to confirm the temporary or permanent
   reassignment.

   "What additional equipment does the Commission require my FM Broadcast

   Station to purchase to provide emergency warnings using Radio Broadcast
   Data

   Systems (RBDS) transmitted via subcarrier?"

   RBDS Technology allows for frequency agility which permits receivers to

   search out and lock onto local emergency alert stations. Consumer
   receivers

   equipped with RBDS can be turned on selectively and automatically from
   a

   standby state, much like personal pagers. Increasing numbers of
   consumer

   electronic devices, such as car radios, are equipped to receive RBDS.
   The

   Commission encourages FM Broadcast Stations to provide emergency
   warnings

   via subcarrier using RBDS but does not require their use. Therefore,
   the

   Commission does not require FM Broadcast Stations to purchase any
   equipment

   to provide emergency warnings using RBDS.

   "What is the purpose of the Red Authenticator Envelope if a station
   programs

   the EAS equipment to break into programming automatically upon receipt
   of an

   EAN or EAT message?"

   Some stations have informed the Commission that they will be operating
   the

   EAS equipment in the manual mode and that they still would like the Red

   Authenticator Envelope as a check when and if they ever receive an EAN

   message. Stations who program the EAS Equipment to break into
   programming

   automatically will have no need to check the Red Authenticator
   Envelope.

   "The Commission required that stations maintain their old EBS Equipment

   until January 1, 1998. Some Stations may have received new monitoring
   assignments from the new EAS State Plan. Do these stations continue to
   monitor the old source with their old EBS Equipment or do they monitor
   one of the new

   sources?"

   Let the old EBS equipment monitor the old assignment. The old EBS
   System

   will be used as just a backup system.

   "Do stations continue to conduct tests with the old EBS Equipment?"

   No. Tests using the old EBS equipment were discontinued January 1,
   1997.

   "If I own multiple broadcast stations and operate them out of one
   studio

   location through a Studio to Transmitter Link, may I use one EAS

   Encoder/Decoder unit for all stations or do I have to purchase a
   separate

   EAS Encoder/Decoder unit for each individual station?"

   You may operate multiple stations through a single EAS Encoder /
   Decoder

   unit. However, if the stations are licensed to separate cities in
   different

   EAS Local Areas, then the stations may have different EAS monitoring

   assignments. In this case, the licensee should be sure that all
   required

   monitoring assignments can be performed through a single EAS Encoder /
   Decoder

   unit. If the one unit is not capable of performing all the required

   monitoring assignments then a waiver request may be submitted to the

   Commission. The waiver requests will be evaluated on a case by case
   basis.

   "Some EAS Local Areas have an LP1 and an LP2 station operating from a
   single

   tower. Often times the LP1 and LP2 are owned by the same organization
   and

   operated through a single Studio to Transmitter Link. There is concern
   that

   if the tower gets knocked over or if the Studio to Transmitter Link
   goes

   down the EAS Local Area will lose both the LP1 and LP2 stations. Will
   the

   FCC approve such an EAS plan?"

   The Commission agrees that co-locating the LP1 and LP2 stations, as
   well

   as, operating them from a single Studio to Transmitter Link should be

   avoided. Local planners should be encouraged to separate the LP1 and
   LP2

   stations. However, if there are no other stations willing to act as the
   LP1

   or the LP2, then the Commission will accept such a plan as a last
   resort.

   "What are the two required monitoring sources as listed in the State
   EAS

   plan?"

   Each station should monitor the LP1 and LP2 station in their local EAS

   Local area.

   "What are the two required monitoring sources for the LP1 stations?"

   All LP1 stations should be connected to the state primary source,
   directly

   or indirectly. The LP1 stations should also monitor the LP2 station in
   the

   local EAS Local Area.

   "May Amateur Radio stations relay EAS Alerts and Tests?"

   Amateur Radio stations may send EAS messages and act as relays of EAS

   messages, using the EAS message sequence, as long as they follow all
   the

   Amateur Radio FCC Part 97 rules.

   "A licensee operating two stations through a single encoder/decoder
   unit

   states that he has difficulty finding a time to broadcast the weekly
   test

   without interrupting programming on at least one of the stations.
   Therefore,

   he would like to broadcast the weekly test live, from the encoder unit,
   over

   just one station and play a recorded version of the test, from a tape

   player, over the other station, at a later time. May he do this?"

   No. EAS messages must be transmitted directly from the EAS encoder
   unit.

   The only exception is for Low Power Television Stations and Class D FM

   Stations which are not required to operate encoder units.

   "Does NOAA have the ability to relay national alerts through local
   weather

   stations?"

   It is NOAA's National Weather Service Policy to allow their stations to

   relay national messages. However, not all NOAA weather stations are
   equipped

   with EAS encoder/decoder units. Therefore, NOAA's ability to relay a

   national message varies from station to station.

   "May a NOAA Weather Station be an LP2 source if that station has the
   ability

   to carry national EAS messages?"

   Yes, as long as the NOAA Weather Station personnel are aware of and
   will

   perform the duties required for relaying national EAS messages,
   including

   the EAS message sequence. In addition, the NOAA Weather Station must
   meet

   all the monitoring requirements and perform all the duties of an LP2
   station

   as required by the state EAS plan.

   "I heard a broadcasting station doing a promo on the EAS. It happens to
   be

   the LP1 station Their promo said that all other stations are required
   to

   listen to them? Is this fair?"

   Technically the statement is true but it would be construed as unfair
   and a

   perceived competitive advantage. It's OK to promote the EAS with
   statements

   like, "This station participates in the Emergency Alert System to bring
   you

   warnings of severe weather or civil emergencies that could pose a
   threat to

   your health and safety." But to say publicly that, in effect, that "the

   other broadcasters in this area have to listen to us" is probably not
   in

   good taste. Furthermore, it could jeopardize further cooperation and

   participation in the EAS. The LP1/LP2 station call letters must not be
   a

   part of the EAS activation message for the same reasons. Yes, this is
   the

   first time we have heard this complaint. Let us hope that any such LP1

   stations will correct their copy to keep it in the local broadcast
   family

   and not wind up where none of us would want it.

   Return to the EAS Home Page

   _________________________
   Updated:  TPP - 20020129
