http://webpageserver.cpuc.ca.gov/static/aboutcpuc/index.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                                  CPUC Home




                          News Room
                          Consumer Help Desk
                          Official Documents
                          Laws, Rules & Procedures
                          Agenda
                          Daily Calendar
                          Proceedings
                          Regulated Industries




                                CPUC Resources



                     Access for People with Disabilities
                     Jobs & Consulting
                     About CPUC
                     Contact Us
                     Employee Information



   Picture of State building - The California Public Utilities Commission
   (CPUC) regulates privately owned telecommunications, electric, natural
   gas, water, railroad, rail transit, and passenger transportation
   companies.
   Home About CPUC


                   California Public Utilities Commission

    The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) regulates privately
   owned telecommunications, electric, natural gas, water, railroad, rail
        transit, and passenger transportation companies. The CPUC is
      responsible for assuring California utility customers have safe,
      reliable utility service at reasonable rates, protecting utility
   customers from fraud, and promoting the health of Californias economy.

    In pursuing these goals, the Commission establishes service standards
   and safety rules, and authorizes utility rate changes. It monitors the
    safety of utility and transportation operations, and oversees markets
       to inhibit anti-competitive activity. In its efforts to protect
       consumers, it prosecutes unlawful utility marketing and billing
   activities, governs business relationships between utilities and their
   affiliates, and resolves complaints by customers against utilities. It
         implements energy efficiency programs, low-income rates and
     telecommunications services for disabled customers. It oversees the
      merger and restructure of utility corporations, and enforces the
   California Environmental Quality Act for utility construction. The CPUC
   works with other state and federal agencies in promoting water quality,
     environmental protection and safety. It also intervenes in federal
   proceedings on issues that affect California utility rates or services.

   In 1911, the Commission was established by Constitutional Amendment as
     the Railroad Commission. In 1912, the Legislature passed the Public
      Utilities Act, expanding the Commissions regulatory authority to
    include natural gas, electric, telephone, and water companies as well
       as railroads and marine transportation companies. In 1946, the
     Commission was renamed the California Public Utilities Commission.

   The Governor appoints the five Commissioners, who must be confirmed by
   the Senate, for six year staggered terms. The Governor appoints one of
   the five to serve as Commission President. The CPUC employs economists,
   engineers, administrative law judges, accountants, lawyers, and safety
    and transportation specialists. The Commission is currently organized
    into several advisory units, an enforcement division, and a strategic
   planning group. The Office of Ratepayer Advocates is an independent arm
      of the CPUC that represents consumers in Commission proceedings,
      pursuant to statute. The Commission also has a Public Advisor who
    assists the public in participating in Commission proceedings, and a
   unit that is charged with informally resolving consumer complaints. The
                  CPUCs headquarters are in San Francisco.


                             Back to Top of Page



       __________ search
   (*) CPUC Site   ( ) My CA

   For information on how to assist those affected by the tragedies of
   September 11, 2001, go to http://helping.org



    Commissioners
    Executive Director
    Public Advisor
    Los Angeles Office
    Divisions
    CPUC Phone Directory
    Section Map
    2002 Meeting Schedule
     Quick Hits:
     * Public Advisor
     * Site Map | Site Index
     * CPUC Phone Listing
     * What's New On The Site



     Conditions of Use |    Privacy Policy   | E-mail
   Webmaster@cpuc.ca.gov
   2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
