http://marad.dot.gov/Headlines/speeches/January_10.html

                                 Remarks by
                           Maritime Administrator
                             William G. Schubert
               U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Alumni Association
                              Washington, D.C.
                              January 10, 2002

   Thank you for your kind introduction. It is good to be here among
   fellow Kings Point alumni, the alumni from the other maritime
   academies, and our friends from the maritime industry. This is my first
   public speaking engagement in Washington and I appreciate all of the
   support many of you have given me during my confirmation process. I can
   also proudly boast that I have met one of the primary qualifications
   for this Administration –Like Andy Card – I was a "C" student at the
   USMMA.

   I am honored to be here in my new position as Maritime Administrator.
   In light of the events of September 11, and the crucial ongoing war
   against terrorism, every action taken at the Maritime Administration is
   now examined and re-examined with this perspective in mind. Business as
   usual is not enough anymore and every initiative at MARAD is now viewed
   in terms of how it helps American jobs, the American economy and
   American security.

   I would like to begin by saluting my alma mater – The United State
   Merchant Marine Academy. I want to tell you how proud I am of the
   midshipmen, along with Kings Point faculty and staff who lived up to
   the school’s motto, Acta non verba, after the September 11 attacks on
   the World Trade Center. The members of the Kings Point community who
   supported the New York Fire Department deserve the highest praise along
   with SUNY –Maritime College, the Coast Guard and other government
   agencies who worked together during that difficult time. Many people
   were trapped in Manhattan when the bridges to New Jersey were closed;
   all Americans should know it was the merchant marine that got them
   home.

   I am very thankful that I had the opportunity to attend the Academy and
   to actively sail in the Merchant Marine over a 12-year period. Our
   Nation is fortunate to have Kings Point and all of the state maritime
   academies. These institutions of higher learning are national assets
   that we must seek to protect. As graduates of these schools, we are
   also charged with providing a maritime future for the next generation.
   That is why I chose to return to Washington to serve President Bush and
   Secretary Mineta. I look forward to working with all of you over the
   coming years as we work together to create new opportunities for our
   graduates.

   In this light, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that
   MARAD is currently investigating the possibility of offering
   opportunities to the graduating midshipmen within the newly created
   Transportation Security Administration or TSA. The TSA is not only
   tasked with providing security and protection to our airline industry,
   but also for our nation’s entire intermodal transportation network. As
   such, the TSA will require significant manpower resources who
   specialize in maritime and intermodal transportation, and a familiarity
   with port operations. I sincerely believe that a secondary mission of
   Kings Point and the state schools could be to provide the necessary
   manpower resources from the graduates who may be unable to find
   permanent employment at sea to fulfil their commitment.

   I was honored when President Bush asked me to serve in his
   Administration.

   I sincerely wish I could stand hear today and proclaim that the
   maritime industry is healthy or that we are poised for an immediate
   turnaround. An industry-wide turnaround may take some time. However, if
   industry & government will work together to promote sound maritime
   policy, we will certainly get there sooner rather than later.

   I want my fellow colleagues here today to know that I am 100% committed
   to take on the significant challenges of this job to do all I can to
   help move the U.S. maritime industry forward. At the same time, we must
   also ALL be ready to work together to support the war on terrorism.

   The September 11 attacks altered the culture at the Department of
   Transportation and we now face a new era in managing our transportation
   infrastructure and other transportation-related assets not only to
   ensure our economic strength and viability, but also our Nation’s self
   defense and security.

   Now, more than ever, we are acting together as a Department, as one
   DOT, to ensure the safety and security of our transportation
   infrastructure and transportation-related assets. We must protect our
   nation’s transportation system and minimize the risk of terrorism on
   our shores. It is not only a matter of protecting our democracy; it is
   a matter of protecting our way of life.

   During my confirmation hearing Senator Breaux of Louisiana told me that
   I was going to have to be a "nag" – that I was going to have to nag the
   President, his Administration, Secretary Mineta and everyone else in
   government in order to be heard. Well, Senator Breaux forgot to mention
   that I also have to nag you. I am going to take the liberty and nag the
   maritime industry for a few minutes.

   The maritime industry—labor, management, shipyards, the maritime
   academies, U.S. flag carriers, U.S. shipowners, the maritime press, and
   anyone whose livelihood is dependent upon the existence of a U.S.
   maritime industry, can learn something from Secretary Mineta’s recent
   strong words to the modal administrators. He said, "The only turf you
   need to be worried about is the turf under your feet." The Secretary
   was very diplomatic in telling us that we cannot be worried about
   internal squabbles when we have a larger issue of homeland security
   facing us. The realities of the new security environment that surround
   us have forced every mode within the Department to consider each other
   and recognize that we are all interconnected and interdependent.

   We in the industry can either worry about our the petty fights, the
   arguments over who has more or less, the backstabbing, the in-fighting,
   or we can worry about our own survival. The great statesman Ben
   Franklin said it best, "We must indeed all hang together, or assuredly,
   we shall all hang separately."

   These may seem like harsh words, especially from a strong advocate of
   the U.S. maritime industry. However, we at the Department of
   Transportation want to see the industry work together, be competitive,
   be innovative, and succeed. As the government official responsible for
   promoting the U.S. maritime industry, I want to help it succeed in a
   way that will quiet all the naysayers out there, and you know certain
   that we have a few out there.[DEL: :DEL]

   Many of you have felt that over the years, maritime interests are last
   on the public policy list, that the Administration does not care, that
   the Department does not hear your concerns, and that MARAD may be out
   of step with the industry. However true that may have been in the past
   – and I do not want to stop to argue about how true it may or may not
   have been--it is not true now. As I have told virtually everyone in
   MARAD – I don’t care where we have been – it’s where we are going that
   counts. We at the Department of Transportation know that all parts of
   the Department have to work together--and that we have to work with all
   parts of the industry. We know we have to put the past behind us and
   work together now. I think you all know that, too. I'm staking my
   professional reputation on the realistic hope that that we as an
   industry can work together--and MARAD is here to help you do it.

   As we work together over the coming years, there may be some policy
   disagreements along the way, but we, as a community are not going to go
   very far in this new environment if we do not speak together as one
   voice, one maritime community, united. We cannot afford to have a
   fractious maritime community at the expense of a U.S. maritime presence
   throughout the nation and world. I am not criticizing one group over
   another, but I believe that the U.S. maritime community needs to
   realize that there isn’t much time to waste. An unproductive cycle of
   attacking one group after another in order to look out for one’s
   self-interest simply cannot exist in this new environment.
   Self-destructive behavior within the industry can easily spell the end.

   Let me briefly mention some important challenges that we are facing.
   The newly established Transportation Security Administration does not
   only seek to protect aviation security interests, but maritime,
   highway, transit and rail – all modes – and we must all cooperate to
   develop this security agency together. Every aspect of the maritime
   industry has a role to play. We owe it to every victim on September 11
   to quit fighting among ourselves and start pulling together for the
   sake of the Nation.

   Secretary Mineta recognizes the critical contribution of maritime
   transportation to the strength of our Nation’s economy. This is a
   forward-thinking Administration and it is exciting to work with the
   Secretary and Deputy Secretary Michael Jackson during this critical
   time.

   In addition to building the Transportation Security Agency, an agency
   larger that the FBI, DEA and Border Patrol combined, Secretary Mineta
   and his team created the National Infrastructure Security Committee
   (NISC) just days after September 11. The NISC is an internal working
   group within the DOT. It is charged with focusing on intermodal
   security issues, ensuring coordination of the Department’s security
   work across all the modes and developing responses to meet the
   challenges of the new security environment. Within the NISC, Direct
   Action Groups, such as the Maritime Direct Action Group (M-DAG), have
   formed in order to look at each of the modes of transportation. We have
   met with industry experts and stakeholders in order to make
   recommendations for action on legislative, regulatory and diplomatic
   initiatives.

   Now, more than ever in this new environment, the maritime community
   will accomplish more if we speak as a group. We are not going to win
   every battle. We are not always going to get exactly what we want. But
   in order to achieve some success, we need to be willing to fight
   together. If we don’t, we have accepted defeat.

   We must not accept the continued overall decline of the U.S.-flag
   fleet. There has been an unprecedented decline in U.S.-flag tonnage
   over the past ten years. I have pledged to work diligently with
   industry and labor over the next few years to encourage new tonnage to
   enter the commercial market. As I have said in my hearings and in
   virtually every press interview, we must also work hard to form a
   consensus on the reauthorization of the MSP program. And it won’t stop
   there. We need to find innovative ways to encourage other types vessels
   to enter the domestic and foreign trades, flying the U.S. flag. I will
   use resources available to me, department-wide, in order achieve this
   goal. I will stand behind any company that is considering adding new
   tonnage to the U.S. flag.

   As an example of recent progress, last month, Secretary Mineta
   announced the placement of one heavy-lift vessel under the U.S. flag by
   a New Orleans-based company. This addition is a positive development
   and highlights new considerations American companies are making
   concerning the viability of U.S.-flag vessel operations due to current
   domestic and international events. The vessel will provide uniquely
   flexible and valuable lift capability to the Department of Defense
   during contingencies. The company plans to register a second vessel
   under the U.S. flag later this year. From these small, yet significant
   successes, I want to build larger successes that will enhance our
   national maritime assets.

   The United States is the world’s only superpower – and we did not reach
   this point without being a sea power. Our strong 200-plus year maritime
   heritage helped build a critical foundation for the development of this
   Nation. And merchant mariners, like so many of you, have served the
   Nation with bravery and dedication, in peacetime and in war, ever since
   there has been an American flag to fly. Now, we too must serve our
   Nation, following their example, by working together to strengthen our
   merchant marine and develop a maritime policy for the 21^st century.

   Thank you for inviting me to speak to you today. We have a lot of work
   to do. But I enjoy a challenge, and I know a lot of you here enjoy a
   challenge, too. I believe the goal is a worthy one--to keep the Stars
   and Stripes flying proudly over the world's best merchant marine. I
   look forward to working with all of you in the coming years.

                                     ###
