http://pacer.mad.uscourts.gov/dc/cgi-bin/recentops.pl?filename=dein/pdf/reid-detention-pc.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS MAGISTRATE NO.
   01-M-1124-JGD UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. RICHARD C. REID MEMORANDUM
   AND ORDER ON ISSUE OF PROBABLE CAUSE AND ON GOVERNMENT'S MOTION FOR
   DETENTION December 28, 2001 DEIN, M.J. I. GOVERNMENT'S MOTION FOR
   DETENTION The defendant has been charged in a criminal complaint with
   interfering with the performance and duties of flight crew members or
   flight attendants of an aircraft by assault and intimidation in
   violation of 49 U.S.C. § 46504. An initial appearance was held on
   December 24, 2001, at which time the government moved for detention
   under 18 U.S.C. §§ 3142 (f)(1)(A) and (f)(2)(A) on the grounds that the
   defendant posed a danger to the community and a serious risk of flight.
   A probable cause and detention hearing was held on December 28, 2001,
   at which time the defendant was represented by counsel. Based on all
   the evidence I find that the government has met its burden of proving
   by clear and convincing evidence that no condition or combination of
   conditions will reasonably assure the safety of the community, and by a
   preponderance of the evidence that no condition or combination of
   conditions will reasonably assure the appearance of the defendant as
   required. Therefore, pretrial detention is warranted. I also find that
   there is probable cause to believe that the offense charged was
   committed and that the defendant committed the offense. The defendant
   is to be bound over for further proceedings in the District Court. II.
   THE BAIL REFORM ACT A. Under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 3142 ("The
   Bail Reform Act"), the judicial officer shall order that, pending
   trial, the defendant either be (1) released on his or her own
   recognizance or upon execution of an unsecured bond; (2) released on a
   condition or combination of conditions; (3) temporarily detained to
   permit revocation of conditional release, deportation or exclusion; or
   (4) detained. See 18 U.S.C. § 3142(a). Under § 3142(e), a defendant may
   be ordered detained pending trial if the judicial officer finds by
   clear and convincing evidence after a detention hearing "that no
   condition or combination of conditions (set forth under § 3142(b) or
   (c)) will reasonably assure the safety of any other person or the
   community . . . ," or if the judicial officer finds by a preponderance
   of the evidence after a detention hearing "that no condition or
   combination of conditions will reasonably assure the appearance of the
   person as required . . . ." See United States v. Patriarca, 948 F.2d
   789, 792-93 (1st Cir. 1991). B. The government is entitled to move for
   detention on grounds of danger to the community in a case, such as the
   present one, which involves a crime of violence within the meaning of
   18 U.S.C. § 3156(a)(4). Additionally, the government or the court sua
   sponte may move for, or set, a detention hearing where there is a
   serious risk that the defendant will flee, or where there is a serious
   risk of obstruction of justice or threats to potential witnesses. See
   18 U.S.C. § 3142(f). -2- C. In determining whether there are conditions
   of release which will reasonably assure the appearance of the person as
   required and the safety of any other person and the community, or
   whether pretrial detention is warranted, the judicial officer must take
   into account and weigh information concerning -- (1) the nature and
   circumstances of the offense charged, including whether the offense is
   a crime of violence or involves a narcotic drug; (2) the weight of the
   evidence against the accused; (3) the history and characteristics of
   the person, including -- (a) the person's character, physical and
   mental condition, family ties, employment, financial resources, length
   of residence in the community, community ties, past conduct, history
   relating to drug or alcohol abuse, criminal history, and record
   concerning appearance at court proceedings; and (b) whether, at the
   time of the current offense or arrest, the defendant was on probation,
   on parole, or other release pending trial, sentencing, appeal, or
   completion of sentence for an offense under Federal, State or local
   law; and (4) the nature and seriousness of the danger to any other
   person or the community that would be posed by the person's release.
   See 18 U.S.C. § 3142(g). III. DISCUSSION OF WHETHER DETENTION IS
   WARRANTED "Detention determinations must be made individually and, in
   the final analysis, must be based on the evidence which is before the
   court regarding the particular defendant." U.S. v. Tortora, 922 F.2d
   880, 888 (1st Cir. 1990), and cases cited. Based on the record before
   me, I find that pretrial detention is necessary. -3- A. The Offense
   Charged And Weight Of The Evidence The charges against the defendant
   arise out of an incident on December 22, 2001 on American Airlines
   flight number AA63, and the evidence against the defendant is very
   strong. While the aircraft was en route from Charles DeGaulle Airport
   in Paris, France, bound for Miami, Florida, there was a disturbance on
   board which resulted in the aircraft being diverted to Boston,
   Massachusetts. According to the flight attendant involved in the
   incident, about one and a half hours into the flight, she smelled what
   she thought was a match. Reid was pointed out to her, and when she
   confronted him she saw him put a match into his mouth. She went to
   alert the captain over the intercom system, and when she returned a few
   moments later, she saw him light another match. It appeared that he was
   attempting to set fire to the inner tongue of his sneaker, from which a
   wire was protruding. A struggle ensued between the flight attendant and
   the defendant during which the flight attendant was shoved into the
   bulkhead, and pushed to the floor. As the first flight attendant got up
   and ran to get water, a second flight attendant joined the struggle,
   and was bitten by the defendant on the thumb. The first flight
   attendant returned and threw water in the defendant's face. Several
   passengers came to the aid of the flight attendants and restrained the
   defendant for the duration of the flight. They also injected him with
   sedatives which were carried onboard. Based on preliminary laboratory
   analysis, it appears that each of the defendant's sneakers contained a
   "functioning improvised explosive device," i.e., a "homemade bomb." If
   the sneakers had been placed against the wall of the aircraft and
   exploded, the devices had the capacity to blow a hole in the fuselage.
   -4- Probable Cause: Based on the foregoing, I find that there is
   probable cause to believe that the offense charged (interference with
   the performance and duties of flight crew members or flight attendants
   of an aircraft by assault and intimidation) was committed and that the
   defendant committed the offense. The defendant is to be bound over for
   further proceedings in the District Court. B. History And
   Characteristics Of The Defendant The history and characteristics of the
   defendant are not conducive to release. The defendant, Richard Colvin
   Reid, a/k/a Abdul Raheem, age 28, was born on August 12, 1973 in
   Farmborough, England. He has no permanent residence and reported that
   he was most recently living in Paris, France, in different hotels. The
   defendant claims to have resided in Europe all his life in different
   locations for short periods of time. He is single and has no children.
   The defendant states that he was never "officially" employed, although
   he has worked as a construction worker and kitchen helper for different
   restaurants and construction companies in Europe for brief periods of
   time. The defendant's mother and half brother live in England. His
   father also lives in England, although the defendant has not had any
   contact with him for several years. The defendant reports having no
   assets and no liabilities. The defendant is not under a doctor's care
   and is not taking any medication. He has never been treated by a
   psychiatrist. According to the defendant, he has a criminal record from
   when he was a "youth," including a period of incarceration. Interpol
   reports a birth date of August 11, 1973 for Richard Colvin Reid, and
   convictions for theft on thirteen occasions, offenses against persons
   on one occasion, and two offenses against property. No details as yet
   have been obtained. -5- C. Risk of Flight The government has proved by
   a preponderance of the evidence that no combination of conditions will
   reasonably assure the defendant's appearance at future court
   proceedings. The defendant has no ties to the United States and, in
   fact, has no permanent residence. He has no permanent employment and
   has traveled extensively throughout Europe without putting down roots.
   He claims to have used an alias in the past. He is facing a serious
   sentence if convicted of the crime charged, and the evidence is strong,
   thereby creating a strong impetus to flee. Under such circumstances,
   there are no conditions nor combinations of conditions that would
   reasonably assure the defendant's appearance as required. D. Danger to
   the Community In view of the conclusion regarding risk of flight, the
   court does not need to consider the matter of danger to the community,
   since it is "well established that the government can keep a defendant
   in custody to secure his presence at trial." United States v. Jessup,
   757 F.2d 378, 380 (1st Cir. 1985), and cases cited. Nevertheless, I
   conclude that the government has met its burden of proof, by clear and
   convincing evidence, that there are no conditions or combination of
   conditions of release which will reasonably assure the safety of other
   persons and the community. In addition to the defendant's violent and
   assaultive behavior toward the flight attendants, the evidence is that
   the defendant was trying to set off an explosive device on a flight
   with approxi- mately 183 passengers and 14 crew members onboard. He
   acted with callous disregard for the safety of others, and, in fact,
   appears to have intended to cause them all serious harm, if not death.
   Under such circumstances, the only conclusion is that if -6- the
   defendant is released he poses an unacceptable and uncontrollable risk
   to the safety of others. IV. ORDER OF DETENTION IT IS ACCORDINGLY
   ORDERED that the defendant be DETAINED pending trial, and it is further
   Ordered -- (1) That the defendant be committed to the custody of the
   Attorney General for confinement in a correction facility separate, to
   the extent practicable, from persons awaiting or serving sentences or
   being held in custody pending appeal; (2) That the defendant be
   afforded a reasonable opportunity for private consultation with
   counsel; and (3) On order of a court of the United States or on request
   by an attorney for the government, the person in charge of the
   corrections facility in which the defendant is detained and confined
   deliver the defendant to an authorized Deputy United States Marshal for
   the purpose of any appearance in connection with a court proceeding.
   ________________________________ Judith Gail Dein United States
   Magistrate Judge -7-
