http://cdinternal.fnal.gov/esh/wh_emergency_plans_and_procedures_II.htm

                            ROBERT R. WILSON HALL
                           Facilities Engineering
                              Services Section

                        EMERGENCY PLAN AND PROCEDURES

   I. GENERAL

   This plan identifies the potential emergencies in Wilson Hall, and the
   associated first response action. It is for the use of all tenants and
   guests to the facility, and is communicated to them through designated
   floor wardens assigned to each floor.

   II. FACILITY IDENTIFICATION

   Robert R. Wilson Hall is an 18 - story, reinforced concrete structure,
   consisting of a half basement, ground floor and sixteen other floors.
   From the second through the fifteenth floor the building is divided
   into two "towers".

   Specific areas of Wilson hall are under the control of various
   Division/Sections. However, the overall responsibility for Wilson Hall
   rests with the Facilities Engineering Services Section.

   The building houses offices, technical and laboratory areas, a
   cafeteria and associated kitchen, a medical department, communications
   center and a receiving area.

   III. DEFINITION OF RESPONSIBILITIES

   A. Section/Division Head

   See responsibilities outlined in Section 6 of this Manual.

   B. Department Heads

   1.) To evaluate possible hazards within the area of responsibility, to
   establish procedures designed to prevent emergencies, and to cope with
   those that do occur.

   2.) To insure implementation of training programs and appropriate
   periodic drills and prepare the associated documentation.

   3.) Coordinates with the Division/Section Senior Safety Officer to
   select Emergency Wardens.

   4.) Supports the Emergency Wardens in training efforts to ensure prompt
   and efficient execution of local area emergency plans.

   5.) Provides for a succession of authority.

   6.) Serves and supports the Incident Command System.

   C. Senior Safety Officers

   See responsibilities outlined in Section 7 of this Manual.

   D. Emergency Wardens

   Emergency Wardens are assigned the responsibility of responding to
   emergency situations as they develop. The Emergency Wardens are trained
   to evaluate the situation and initiate action to protect lives and
   control the emergency by:

   1. Evacuating personnel from the area.

   2. Ensuring the emergency situation is reported via the Dial 3131
   system.

   3. Reporting evacuation status to the Emergency Coordinator or officer
   in charge at the scene.

   4. Assuming responsibility for securing a replacement during any
   absences.

   All Emergency Wardens are required to attend and to participate in the
   Emergency Preparedness Training program arranged by the Senior Safety
   Officers.

   IV. SUCCESSION OF COMMAND

   During normal building full occupancy (M-F, 8:00 am - 5:00 pm):
   A. Incident Commander
   B. Wilson Hall Building Manager
   C. FESS Head
   D. FESS Deputy Head
   E. FESS Senior Safety Officer

   During building unoccupied periods
   A. Incident Commander
   B. FESS Operations and Maintenance Duty Mechanic (or Electrician):

   V. EVACUATION ROUTES

   The proper evacuation route for the East Tower is the southeast
   stairway; for the West Tower, the southwest stairway. Secondary exit
   paths for floors 3-5 and 7-16 require traversing a crossover to the
   opposite south stairway. The alternate exit for the sixth floor and any
   floor with fire blocking the primary and secondary exit is via the
   north (open) stairway to the next lower level, then south to the
   enclosed stairway. Once out of the building, personnel proceed to the
   designated assembly area. This is the area across the drive in front of
   the LINAC, Cross-Gallery, and Transfer Hall, unless strong winds or
   other phenomena make these areas unsuitable. The alternative area shall
   be the west Wilson Hall parking lot.

   VI SPECIFIC HAZARDS

   As part of the normal conduct of business, hazardous substances may be
   brought into and utilized in Wilson Hall. Tenants/users of such
   materials are required to report these substances to the Building
   Manager prior to introduction into the building.

   VII SPECIFIC PROCEDURES

   A. Fire

   1. Any person discovering a fire shall activate the closest manual fire
   alarm pull station, proceed to a safe location, and DIAL 313.

   2. Evacuation of any part of Wilson Hall for FIRE will be announced by
   a steady tone of the local sounding alarm. The Emergency Wardens will
   ensure the complete evacuation of their area of responsibility.

   B. Tornado (Severe Weather)

     Emergency evacuation signal

   1. A tornado watch is issued when weather conditions are conducive to
   the formation of a tornado. No action is required.

   2. A tornado warning is issued when tornado trackers have sighted a
   tornado or its existence substantiated by radar.

   3. In the event of an imminent tornado threat to the site, the
   Emergency Coordinator or an authorized representative will give
   instructions to activate the site-wide warning system.

   4. When the severe weather warning signal (intermittent sounding alarm
   for indoors and steady tone alarm for outdoors) is sounded, the
   Emergency Wardens will see that all personnel take shelter.

   C. Evacuation of Disabled Personnel

   1. In case of a fire alarm, the disabled person will be escorted toward
   the south stairwell of that floor by the warden or assistant. When the
   stairwell traffic has cleared, or if the situation worsens, the
   disabled person will be moved onto the stair landing. Immediately after
   this the warden or assistant will inform the Communications Center of
   the whereabouts of the disabled person by dialing 3131. The person
   assisting will then proceed to follow the standard emergency evacuation
   procedures.

   2. In the case of a severe weather alarm the disabled person will be
   escorted to a Wilson Hall restroom on the floor on which they are
   located by the Emergency Warden or designee. The warden or assistant
   will immediately inform the Communications Center of the whereabouts of
   the disabled person by dialing 3131. The person assisting will then
   proceed to follow the standard emergency evacuation procedures.

   D. Explosion

   1. Immediately evacuate the area involved in the explosion.

   2. DIAL 3131 to report the explosion.

   E. Personnel Injury/Fatality

   1. The injured person or any cognizant personnel in the area shall DIAL
   3131 immediately for assistance, and relate all pertinent information
   to the Emergency Operator.

   2. On the instruction of Emergency personnel, begin to administer first
   aid as required.

   F. Radiation Emergency

   See Section 34 (RADIATION EMERGENCIES) in this Manual for instructions
   on how to proceed in the event of a radiation emergency.

   G. Release of Radioactive or Toxic Material

   Personnel discovering such a release will:

   1. Notify emergency personnel by DIALING 3131 and re-lating all
   pertinent information.

   2. Follow instructions regarding evacuation procedures.

   H. Threats

   1. Any person receiving a threat by telephone, or any other means,
   should immediately notify the Emergency Coordinator by Dialing 3131 and
   relating all pertinent information.

   2. Further action will be on the instructions of the Emergency
   Coordinator.

   I. Emergency Shutdown Procedures

   1. Communications Center

   In the event of an electrical shutdown of Wilson Hall it will be
   necessary to maintain the Communications Center using the emergency
   generators in the basement for power and lighting. If the building
   becomes totally uninhabitable, these facilities will have to be shut
   down and secured by Operations and Maintenance. The Communication
   Center's operation will be transferred to the secondary or backup
   facility.

   2. Building Elevators

   If there is a power outage in Wilson Hall, one elevator at a time in
   each tower of the building can be powered from emergency generators in
   the basement. Should it subsequently become necessary for any reason to
   shut off all power, it must first be ascertained that no one has been
   trapped inside an elevator car as a result of power shutoff. The Fire
   Department must be notified to initiate a rescue operation if someone
   has been trapped. During this time, the Communications Center personnel
   will maintain contact with the entrapped occupants through the
   telephones in each respective elevator.

   J. Electrical Power Interruptions

   Follow the same procedure as for Emergency Shutdowns in Section VII, I,
   1 and 2 above.

   K. National Alert

   Follow the same procedures as for Tornado or Severe Weather building
   evacuation in Section VII, E, 1 through 4 above.

   L. Continuance of Vital Operations During an Emergency

   During a major emergency and/or in the event that a complete shutdown
   of the building is required, the only vital operations that need to be
   continued are Communications Center, and the operation of the fire
   pumps and the gas turbine driven emergency electrical generators. The
   turbine/fire pump is located in an isolated room in the southwest
   corner on the basement floor of the facility. Access to this room is
   restricted to key personnel in the Operations and Maintenance Group who
   are fully responsible for the maintenance and operation of the
   equipment. In the event of complete building evacuation, entry by
   Operations and Maintenance personnel will be cleared through the
   Emergency Coordinator or a designated alternate.

   M. Personnel Accountability

   1. Personnel Present

   The Emergency Warden should be cognizant of the areas on the floor
   where personnel are working, including areas where tradesmen or other
   subcontract personnel are temporarily located.

   2. Ascertaining that Personnel are Clear of Hazardous Areas

   If either a fire or tornado alarm is sounded, the Emergency Warden
   shall make sure that all occupants are notified to leave, and forward
   the name or description of anyone who refuses to comply to the
   Emergency Coordinator or any uniformed security or fire emergency
   personnel. Successful evacuation of a floor shall be reported to the
   Emergency Coordinator or officer in charge at the scene.

   N. Training

   Annual Emergency Warden training sessions required by the respective
   Division/Sections are conducted by the Wilson Hall Building Manager
   under the auspices of the Fire Department.

   VIII INCIDENT TERMINATION

   A. Technical Evaluation of Re-entry Conditions

   The Emergency Coordinator, Wilson Hall Building Manager, and Head of
   the Environment, Safety, and Health Section, assisted by Security, Fire
   Department and Operations and Maintenance personnel, will make an
   evaluation of the building to determine when conditions are suitable
   for re-entry.

   B. Safeguarding or Isolating Hazards

   The Department Head of the area in which a hazard is located will be
   responsible for erecting appropriate barriers and signs and taking
   whatever additional action is necessary to isolate the hazard.

   C. Recall and Re-entry of Personnel

   Personnel occupying Wilson Hall will be permitted to re-enter their
   work areas, following an emergency, only after permission has been
   given by the Wilson Hall Building Manager (or a designated alternate)
   to the respective Division/Section Head; subject to the existence of
   satisfactory conditions in accordance with Section VIII, A, above.

   IX EMERGENCY FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT

   A. Communications Center

   The Communications Center, on the first floor northeast in Wilson Hall,
   is the designated communications center in the event of a major
   emergency. In the Communications Center, automatic emergency generator
   power is supplied to all communications, manual paging, and the FIRUS
   Teletype.

   As further backup, "879" numbers have been installed at twenty-four
   (24) key locations. Telephones in these locations have ringing
   capability, regardless of power failure.

   B. Emergency Operations Center

   In the event of a major emergency at Fermilab, the Emergency Operations
   Center (EOC) will be in the area immediately adjacent to the
   Communications Center office. In the event the Emergency Coordinator
   determines the EOC is inoperable, operations will be directed to move
   to the Accelerator Main Control Room, EAD Operations Center, or the
   FESS Operations and Maintenance Office Area at Site 38.

   C. Other Wilson Hall Resources

   1. Fire extinguishers are positioned throughout the building. This
   equipment is for use by trained personnel only.

   2. Sprinkler systems are located in all portions of Wilson Hall.
   Activation of the sprinkler system will sound a local fire alarm and an
   alarm at the Communications Center.

   3. Manual fire alarm pull stations are located in all portions near
   each stairway access door. Activation sounds a local fire alarm and an
   alarm at the Communications Center.

   4. All telephones in Wilson Hall can be used to report an emergency by
   DIALING 3131. The caller's information will be relayed to the site-wide
   emergency response groups through the Emergency telephone operator.
   They will initiate the necessary procedures to cope with the emergency.
   The caller should stay on the line to give clear and concise
   information about the location and nature of the emergency.

   5. Four (4) emergency cabinets are located in the tornado shelter area.
   These cabinets each contain a folding litter and blankets.
