http://www.nypa.gov/html/blenheim.html

   [ISMAP:loched3.gif]-Top-level navigation bar (see also text links at
   bottom of page): New York Power Authority home page; About NYPA; News;
   Our Locations; Come Visit Us
   [spacer.gif] [ISMAP:locnavble.gif]-"Our Locations" navigation bar (see
   text links at bottom of page)

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Blenheim-Gilboa Pumped Storage Power Project
   [aborule.gif]

   The Catskill Mountains are home to a special type of hydroelectric
   facility that serves as a giant energy-storage device—the
   Blenheim-Gilboa Pumped Storage Power Project. Nestled beneath
   2,000-foot-tall Brown Mountain, this project generates more than one
   million kilowatts of electricity in peak demand periods by drawing
   water from Schoharie Creek and recycling it between two huge
   reservoirs.

   Photograph of Blenheim-Gilboa Pumped Storage Power Project
   Blenheim-Gilboa serves two vital functions. It saves money for New York
   consumers by providing low-cost electricity when they need it most. And
   it stores water for emergency power production.

   When emergencies occur, this project can be up and running within two
   minutes. It can "pinch hit" if another plant or line suddenly goes out
   of service. And—in the unlikely event of a major power
   failure—Blenheim-Gilboa can provide "cranking power" to restart other
   Power Authority facilities and, eventually, the statewide energy grid
   just by letting the force of gravity pull water through the project's
   turbine-generators.

   Here's how it works:
   Each of the reservoirs—one atop Brown Mountain, the other at its
   foot—holds five billion gallons of water. When we're generating power,
   the water cascades down a concrete shaft that's five times taller than
   Niagara Falls. When we're storing water—usually at night or over the
   weekend—we reverse the process and pump the water back up the shaft for
   storage.

   The system allows us, literally, to "go with the flow"—to take
   advantage of the daily highs and lows in statewide electricity demand.
   In other words, we can generate power when we need it—generally in the
   late afternoon or early evening—and store the water that fuels the
   power when we don't need it. The electricity Blenheim-Gilboa uses to
   return water to its upper reservoir is inexpensive surplus power made
   available during low-demand periods. The cost of this power is cheaper
   than the electricity our project replaces the following day during
   peak-demand periods.

   At Blenheim-Gilboa, we generate electricity at the powerhouse, a
   concrete structure that sits at the base of Brown Mountain on the banks
   of the lower reservoir. More than three-quarters of the facility is
   underground. When the lower reservoir is full, only five feet of the
   plant is visible above the water.

   The unspoiled beauty surrounding Blenheim-Gilboa is a pleasure for the
   many visitors—local residents and out-of-town tourists—who flock here
   for educational and recreational pursuits. Besides producing power, we
   operate a Visitors Center and help maintain adjacent attractions that
   generate good times as well.

                             Back to top of page


        | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |

      | St.Lawrence-FDR | Poletti | Clark | Niagara | Indian Point 3 |

           | Flynn | FitzPatrick | Blenheim-Gilboa | Small Hydro |

              Copyright © 1997-2002   New York Power Authority
