http://www.cio.anl.gov/warning.html

   Security & Privacy Notice
   Argonne National Laboratory, Office of the Chief Information Officer
     What's New Site Map [over_off.gif] Contacts Links



   Cybersecurity
   Information Policies
   Business Applications
   Computing Infrastructure
   Staff
   Publications
   Intranet


[csintranethead.gif]

U.S. Department of Energy Warning Banners

     * DOE Requires two notices displayed
     * Federal Security and Privacy Notice
     * Non-Federal Security and Privacy  Notice
     * Complete Warning Message
     * Complete HTML Version of Warning Message
     * Complete Text Version of Warning Message
     * Abbreviated Warning Message for limited space
     * Abbreviated Text Version of Warning Message for limited space
     * Complete Non-Federal Warning Message
     * Complete Non-federal Text Version of Warning Message
     * Windows 95 / Windows 98 Download
     * Windows NT Server and Workstation Download
     * Windows NT FTP Server running IIS 4
     * Windows NT Logon Script Deployment
     * Apple / Mac Download
     * AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Irix, SunOS, Solaris
     * DEC, VAX / VMS
     * Novell Netware Logon Script Deployment

   The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) requires the Laboratory to display
   two types of notices on all computer systems owned by DOE:
     * One for publicly accessible services like WWW and FTP
     * One for interactive sessions

   Computer systems meant to be available to the general public (public
   web servers, anonymous FTP servers, etc.) should  link directly to the
   Security and Privacy Notices at  http://www.anl.gov/notice.html.

                                 Back to Top

   Following is the complete message that should be included in this
   banner before or just after a logon prompt to any computer.

                               Notice to Users
                              October 31, 2000

     This is a Federal computer system and is the property of the United
     States Government. It is for authorized use only. Users (authorized
     or unauthorized) have no explicit or implicit expectation of
     privacy.

     Any or all uses of this system and all files on this system may be
     intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected, and
     disclosed to authorized site, Department of Energy, and law
     enforcement personnel, as well as authorized officials of other
     agencies, both domestic and foreign. By using this system, the user
     consents to such interception, monitoring, recording, copying,
     auditing, inspection, and disclosure at the discretion of authorized
     site or Department of Energy personnel.

     Unauthorized or improper use of this system may result in
     administrative disciplinary action and civil and criminal penalties.
     By continuing to use this system you indicate your awareness of and
     consent to these terms and conditions of use. LOG OFF IMMEDIATELY if
     you do not agree to the conditions stated in this warning.

   Download text version of warning message.

                                 Back to Top

   If the application is limited by concentrator character spacing and the
   full warning message above will not fit in the space allowed, the
   following notice should then be used before or just after a logon
   prompt.

     WARNING
     Federal US Government computer AUTHORIZED USE ONLY. Users have no
     explicit/implicit expectation of privacy. All files may be
     intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected,
     disclosed to authorized law enforcement officials, domestic or
     foreign. Unauthorized improper use of system may result in
     disciplinary action, civil/criminal penalties. Using this system
     indicates your consent. LOG OFF IMMEDIATELY if you do not agree to
     these conditions. Read www.cio.anl.gov/warning.html.

   Download text version of this abbreviated warning message.

                                 Back to Top

   In some cases, the system may be owned by some other entity.
   However, the banner warning notice is still applicable because the
   system is using the ANL network, and as such, is subject to monitoring
   and so on. Systems that are not owned by a Federal agency must display
   an alternate version of the banner message that does not state that the
   system is a Federal system. Following is the complete message that
   should be included in this banner for Non-Federal systems before or
   just after a logon prompt to any computer.

                               Notice to Users
                              October 31, 2000

   This is for authorized use only. Users (authorized or unauthorized)
   have no explicit or implicit expectation of privacy.

   Any or all uses of this system and all files on this system may be
   intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected, and
   disclosed to authorized site, Department of Energy, and law enforcement
   personnel, as well as authorized officials of other agencies, both
   domestic and foreign. By using this system, the user consents to such
   interception, monitoring, recording, copying, auditing, inspection, and
   disclosure at the discretion of authorized site or Department of Energy
   personnel.

   Unauthorized or improper use of this system may result in
   administrative disciplinary action and civil and criminal penalties. By
   continuing to use this system you indicate your awareness of and
   consent to these terms and conditions of use. LOG OFF IMMEDIATELY if
   you do not agree to the conditions stated in this warning.

   Download the text version

                                 Back to Top

Microsoft Windows '95 and Windows '98

   For single workstation deployment only.

   A single file is used to edit the system's registry to add the values
   for the banner. A link is provided below that contains the Registry
   file for the update. When the link is clicked, the user will be
   prompted to save or open the file. Below are the instructions for
   either.

   Download Windows '95 and '98 Warning Banner

   NOTE:  If your browser displays text within the screen when you click
   on this link, you will need to take a separate step to download the
   file. Right mouse click on the link, select "Save Link As" (Netscape
   Browser) or "Save Target As" (IE).

   Save File Option
    1. Save the file to a temp directory on your local machine.
    2. Once the file is saved, open up Window's Explorer, and navigate to
       the file just saved.
    3. Double click on the file.
    4. You may be asked if you wish to update your system with this file,
       select yes.
    5. You will be prompted that it was successful in updating the system.
    6. Close all programs.
    7. Reboot the machine, you will notice the banner before logon.

   Open File Option
    1. Select the open file from current location option.
    2. You may be asked if you wish to update your system with this file,
       select yes.
    3. You will be prompted that is was successful in updating the system.
    4. Close all programs.
    5. Reboot the machine, you will notice the banner before logon.

                                 Back to Top

Microsoft Windows NT Server and NT Workstation

   For single workstation deployment only.

   A single file is used to edit the system's registry to add the values
   for the banner. Please note that you must have administrative
   privileges on the machine that you are updating. Without these
   privileges, the update will NOT take place. A link is provided below
   that contains the Registry file for the update. When the link is
   clicked, the user will be prompted to save or open the file. Below are
   the instructions for either.

   Download Windows NT Server/Workstation Warning Banner

   NOTE:  If by clicking on the link above, your browser displays text
   within the screen, a separate step will need to be taken to download
   the file.   Right mouse click on the link, select "Save Link As"
   (Netscape Browser) or "Save Target As" (IE).

   Save File Option
    1. Save the file to a temp directory on your local machine.
    2. Once the file is saved, open up Windows Explorer, and navigate to
       the file just saved.
    3. Double click on the file.
    4. You may be asked if you wish to update your system with this file,
       select yes.
    5. You will be prompted that is was successful in updating the system.
    6. Close all programs.
    7. Reboot the machine, you will notice the banner before logon.

   Open File Option
    1. Select the open file from current location option.
    2. You may be asked if you wish to update your system with this file,
       select yes.
    3. You will be prompted that is was successful in updating the system.
    4. Close all programs.
    5. Reboot the machine, you will notice the banner before logon.

                                 Back to Top

Microsoft Windows NT FTP Server Running IIS-4

   To configure messages for Microsoft's FTP Server go to the Messages Tab
   of the FTP Site Properties window within the Microsoft Management
   Console (MMC). NOTE: The only message that will be visible to those
   individuals using a Web browser to access the FTP site will be the
   Welcome message. The Exit and Maximum Connections message will be seen
   when command line or other FTP client packages are used.

Microsoft NT  Logon Script Deployment

   ECT has created a logon script that can be used within established
   system login scripts to deploy the registry updates to all machines
   that login to a Windows NT domain or Novell Netware NDS tree.

   NOTE: This script does not distinguish between Argonne systems and
   other systems, including, but not limited to, "at home" workstations.
    1. Download the file into a temp directory.
    2. Extract the nt.zip file into this directory.
    3. Read the NT Logon Script Deployment.doc file for instructions.

                                 Back to Top

Novell Netware Logon Script Deployment

    1. Download the file into a temp directory.
    2. Extract the novell.zip file into this directory.
    3. Read the NT Logon Script Deployment.doc file for instructions.

Apple/MAC

   Downloading the Argonne.hqx File
    1. Click on the file argonne.hqx to download it to your Macintosh.
    2. Once the file is expanded, an application called Argonne is placed
       on your Macintosh desktop.
    3. Quit your browser application.

   Destination for the Argonne Application
    1. Double click on the System Folder to open it.
    2. Double click on the Startup Items Folder to open it.
    3. Move the Argonne application to your open Startup Items folder.
    4. Close all open windows.
    5. From the Special menu, choose Restart.

   Each time you start your machine, your Macintosh will first display the
   banner program.

   For additional Mac technical support contact Lee Wagar, (630/252-5554).

                                 Back to Top

AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Irix, SunOS, and Solaris

   Pre Logon Banner

   These systems will allow for a banner to be displayed pre-logon as well
   as after the logon was successful. The file to edit for 'pre-logon' is
   found in the /etc/issue file. This has been tested with success on IRIX
   6.2 and Solaris 2.6, with further testing expected on the other
   platforms.

   HP-UX 10.20

   After creating or editing the /etc/issue file, modify telnetd and
   rlogind lines in the inetd daemon configuration file, /etc/inetd.conf,
   adding "-b /etc/issue" to the end of each of the following lines:

   telnet stream tcp nowait root /usr/lbin/telnetd telnetd -b /etc/issue
   login stream tcp nowait root /usr/lbin/rlogind rlogind -b /etc/issue
   Post Logon Banner

   The banner displayed after logon is found in the /etc/motd on all the
   platforms mentioned (AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Irix, SunOS, and Solaris).

   Automated Banner Update Scripts

   Several scripts have been developed to update the banners with the DOE
   warning message. Currently, these scripts have only been tested with
   Linux and Solaris, but should work on other systems that support the
   /etc/issue and /etc/motd files. Click the link below to download a
   gzip-ed tar file containing the scripts. Once you have downloaded the
   file, use the command 'gunzip < doebanners.tar.gz | tar xvf -' to open
   the archive. A directory will be created called 'doebanners' that
   contains a README.txt file with more information.

   Download the DOE Banner Update Unix Scripts

   For technical support, please contact Brian Sebby (630-252-9935).

                                 Back to Top

DEC, VAX/VMS

   To add the warning message for interactive (including SET  HOST and
   TELNET) sessions:

   From a Privileged Account (e.g., SYSTEM)
    1. Create a text file containing the warning message.
    2. Put it in a well-protected directory (e.g.  SYS$MANAGER:) but set
       the file's protection to allow world read access.
    3. Define the system exec-mode logical name SYS$ANNOUNCE with the
       equivalence name  equal to "@" followed by the full file
       specification of the text file containing the warning message.
    4. Also add this definition to your SYSTARTUP  or SYLOGICALS command
       procedure so that it is executed at each boot. If you already
       define SYS$ANNOUNCE to refer to a text file, you can add the DOE
       warning message to the text file that you are already using.

   For example:

     $ CREATE SYS$COMMON:[SYSMGR]DOE_ANNOUNCE.TXT

     ... text of DOE warning message goes here...

     $ SET PROTECTION=(S:RWED,O:RWED,G:R,W:R)

   SYS$COMMON:[SYSMGR]DOE_ANNOUNCE.TXT

     $ DEFINE/SYSTEM/EXEC SYS$ANNOUNCE

   "@SYS$COMMON:[SYSMGR]DOE_ANNOUNCE.TXT"

     $ EDIT/TPU SYS$MANAGER:SYLOGICALS.COM

     ... add above DEFINE command in the appropriate place...

   To add the warning message for FTP sessions using Multinet's  FTP
   server
    1. Define the system logical name MULTINET_FTP_ANNOUNCE with the
       equivalence name equal to the same value as described above for
       SYS$ANNOUNCE.
    2. If you want a different announcement message for FTP sessions,
       create a separate text file with the DOE warning message and any
       additional  text that you require, and define MULTINET_FTP_ANNOUNCE
       equal to "@" followed by the full file specification of that file.
    3. Remember to set the protection and add the logical name definition
       to the appropriate boot-time startup command procedure.
    4. Remember to make required changes and define the necessary logical
       names on all cluster nodes!

   For additional technical support, contact Michael Skwarek
   (630-252-6969)

                                 Back To Top

   RETURN TO  CYBER SECURITY INFORMATION

   Updated 01/24/02


             Home | What's New | Overview | Contacts | Site Map
          Cyber Security | Policies | Applications | Infrastructure
     Staff | Publications | Links | lntranet | Security & Privacy Notice
