http://ksd-pubweb.ksd.uscourts.gov/hr/employment/jobs/UnitedStatesProbatio2002-1-18.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT DISTRICT OF KANSAS PROBATION OFFICE JOB
   ANNOUNCEMENT #02-1 POSITION TITLE: U.S. Probation Officer SALARY RANGE:
   CPS CL 25 $29,944 - $48,939 CPS CL 27 $36,212 - $59,243 CPS CL 28
   $43,403 - $71,000 (Starting salary is commensurate with education and
   experience) LOCATION: Distr ict of K ans as (K ans as C ity, W ichita ,
   Top eka or Ft. Riley) ISSUE DATE: January 18, 2002 CLOSING DATE: Open
   Until Filled DUTIES: Completes presentence investigations for U.S.
   District Court; conducts investigations, evaluations, and recomm
   endations to the Court regarding probation/supervised release
   violations; supervises persons on probation, parole, mandatory release,
   military parole, and supervised release; cooperates with other federal
   probation officers and units making investigations; supervises persons
   transferred from other districts; maintains case records required by
   the Court and chief probation officer; and keeps informed of new
   developments in the field of corrections and applies these to work
   where appropriate. Cooperates with U.S. Parole Commission in
   supervising persons released on parole; makes inves tigatio ns,
   evaluations, and recommendations to the U.S. Parole Comm ission as may
   be required. Performs duties as requested in the investigation and
   supervision of military parolees. Provides the same services to U.S.
   Magistrate Judges as furnished to the Court when requested. Performs
   other duties which may be required by the U.S. District Court and the
   chief probation officer. QUALIFICATIONS: (a) Age and physical standards
   apply. This is a federal law enforcement position as defined under the
   Federal Employees Retirement System. Therefore, first time applicants
   for th is position must not have reached their 37th birthday at the
   time of appointment and must be phys ically capab le of perfo rming all
   duties relating to employment responsibilities. Additional information
   available at personal interview. (b) College graduate from an
   accredited college or university with a degree in the social sciences
   or in a field appropriate to the subject matter of the position. (c)
   Three years of specialized experience, or completion of a master's
   degree in a field of study clos ely related to the position, or a Juris
   Do ctor (JD ) degree , and one year of specialized experience. (d)
   Candidates with the ability to speak Spanish and interpret for Spanish
   speaking clients is a pref erre d sk ill, how ever , not m and atory.
   EVALUATION PROCESS: Applican ts will be evaluated initially against
   their experience and educational backg round in o rder to determine if
   they m eet m inim um qualif icatio ns. E ligible applicants will be
   screened and rated as to experience, educa tion, and tra ining. Applica
   nts m ay be requ ired to resp ond to written assignm ents during the
   selection process. Interviews will be conducted with finalists.
   BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION AND DRUG SCREENING: Prior to appoin tmen t,
   applicants conside red for this position will und ergo a fu ll FBI
   background investigation and dru g scree ning. In addition, the
   incumbent will be subject to random drug screening and updated
   background investigations every five years. TO APPLY: To apply for this
   p osition, applicants m ust subm it: # a cover letter # completed AO 78
   Application for Judicial Branch Federal Employment* # completed
   District of Kansas Supplemental Information Form * # college transcript
   *THE AO 78 AND SUPPLEMENTAL FORMS ARE AVAILABLE ON OUR WEB PAGE AT:
   http://ksd-pubweb.ksd.uscou rts.gov/ Submit application to: United
   States District Court Human Resource Division 500 State Ave., Room 259
   Kansas City, KS 66101 INFORMATION FOR APPLICANTS The Court reserves the
   right to modify the conditions of this job announcement or to withdraw
   the jo b ann oun cem ent, a ny of w hich actio ns m ay occ ur with out
   a ny prio r writte n not ice. T his job announcement may involve
   filling more than one position described herein. This position is
   subject to mandatory participation for payment of net pay (i.e. Direct
   Deposit). The U.S. Courts require em ployees to a dhere to a Code of
   Ethics and Co nduct w hich is ava ilable to applicants for review upon
   request. Due to the volum e of applications received, the Court may
   only communicate to those individuals who will be interviewed for open
   positions. Travel and reloc ation expe nse s will no t be p aid. A
   pplica nts m ust b e Un ited S tates citizen s or e ligible to work in
   the United States. THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT IS AN EQUAL OPPO
   RTUNITY EMPLOYER
