http://www.ows.doleta.gov/foreign/750inst.asp

   Link to DOL Home Page
   Foreign Labor Certification
   Photos representing the workforce - Digital Imagery© copyright 2001
   PhotoDisc, Inc.

   U.S. Department of Labor Seal
   www.ows.doleta.gov
   [Skip to Content]  Frequently Asked Questions  |  Site map



       OWS > FLC > ETA 750 Instructions

   Itemized Instructions for Completing form ETA-750

   PDF Icon   Application for Alien Employment Certification ETA-750A
   (must be submitted two-sided). (Acrobat Reader Required).
   PDF Icon   Application for Alien Employment Certification ETA-750B
   (must be submitted two-sided). (Acrobat Reader Required).
   Part A. OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT (To be completed by the employer).
   NOTE: Please submit three completed forms 750 A and B (two originals
   and one copy). Each form must be one page, front to back. The two
   originals forms must have the employers signature on form A and the
   aliens signature on form B.
   Item 1. Name of Alien. Enter full name exactly as it appears on Part B,
   "Statement of Qualifications of Alien."
   Item 2. Present Address of Alien. Enter whether in the United States or
   abroad.
   Item 3. Type of Visa. If the alien is in the United States, enter the
   type of visa held, i.e., B-2 (visitor), F-1 (student), or current
   status shown on INS Form I-94.
   Item 4. Name of Employer. Enter the full name of the business, firm or
   organization, or if an individual, enter name used for legal purposes
   on documents.
   Item 5. Telephone Number. In job offers for private households, enter a
   business and home telephone number when all adults are employed.
   Item 6. Address of Employer. Self explanatory.
   Item 7. Address where the Alien will Work. Enter the full address of
   site or location where the work will actually be performed, if
   different from the address in Item 6.
   Item 8. Nature of Employer's Business. Enter a brief non-technical
   description, i.e., retail store, household, university, financial
   institution.
   Item 9. Name of Job Title. Enter the common name or payroll title of
   the job being offered.
   Item 10. Total Hours Per Week. Enter the basic hours of work required
   per week and overtime hours per week in accordance with State and
   Federal law for the work and locality.
   Item 11. Work Schedule. Show the daily work schedule for the job, i.e.,
   9 a.m. to 5 p.m., 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 8 p. m.
   Item 12. Rate of Pay. Enter a guaranteed wage and the unit of pay, such
   as $7.00 per hour, $850 per month, or $12,500 per year. Wage offer
   cannot be based on commission, bonuses, or other incentives, unless the
   employer guarantees a wage paid on a weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly
   basis
   Item 13. Job Duties. Describe the job duties, in detail, to be
   performed by any worker filling the job. Specify equipment used and
   pertinent working conditions.
   Item 14. Minimum Education, Training, and Experience Required to
   Perform the Job Duties. Do not duplicate the time requirements. For
   example, time required in training should not also be listed in
   education or experience. Indicate whether months or years are required.
   Do not include restrictive requirements which are not actual business
   necessities for performance on the job and which would limit
   consideration of otherwise qualified U. S. workers.
   Item 15. Other Special Requirements. Enter the job related
   requirements. Examples are shorthand and typing speeds, specific
   foreign language proficiency, test results. Document business necessity
   for a foreign language requirement.
   Item 16. Occupational Title of Person Who Will Supervise Alien. Self
   explanatory.
   Item 17. Number of Employees Alien Will Supervise. Self explanatory.
   Item 18. Complete Only if Job is Temporary. Does not apply to offer of
   permanent employment.
   Item 19. If the Job is unionized. Enter the number of the local, the
   name of the union, and the City and State in which the local has its
   main office.
   Item 20. Statement of Live-At-Work Job Offer in Private Households. (Do
   not complete for other job offers).
   20(a). Description of Residence. Self explanatory.
   20(b). Number of Persons Residing at Place of Employment. Enter the
   number of adults, children under 18 years old, their sex and specific
   ages of children.
   20(c). Room and Board. Self explanatory.
   Item 21. Recruitment Efforts. Describe in detail efforts to recruit
   U.S. workers for the job opportunity and the results. List sources of
   recruitment by name, i.e., Lane Technical School, the Daily Tribune
   Newspaper, Scientific Journal of America. Specify the number of
   applicants interviewed from each source and the lawful job-related
   reason why they were not hired.
   Item 22. Read the GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS for additional supporting
   documentation which must be submitted, in separate attachments, along
   with this application. General instruction will provide information
   that may be required. Documentation for Schedule A may be found in Part
   II. Department of Labor regulations require that an employer submit
   documentation to clearly show that the job offer and the recruitment of
   U.S. workers are in compliance with regulations. In addition, special
   documentation is required for certain occupational groups.
   Item 23. Employer Certifications. Read carefully. The employer
   certifies to these eight (8) conditions of employment by signing the
   form.
   Item 24. Employer Declaration. All copies of this form must bear the
   original signature of the employer or the employer's duly authorized
   representative with hiring authority. False statements are subject to
   Federal perjury and fraud penalties. The authorization of agent is
   completed only when the employer designates an agent to represent the
   employer in applying for labor certification. It is recommended that
   the employer not sign a blank form, since the employer takes full
   responsibility for any representations of the agent.
   Part B. STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS OF ALIEN (To be completed by the
   Alien)
   Item 1. Name of Alien. Self explanatory.
   Item 2. Present Address. Enter the address where the alien currently
   resides, whether in the United States or abroad.
   Item 3. Type of Visa. If alien is in the United States, specify the
   type of visa now held, i.e., B-2 (visitors), F-1 (student), etc., or
   the alien's current status as shown on INS Form I-94.
   Item 4. Alien's Birthdate. Do not use the number for months. Write out,
   e.g., March 21, 1942.
   Item 5. Alien's Birthplace. Self explanatory.
   Item 6. Present Nationality or Citizenship of Alien. Enter the country
   of which alien is currently a national or citizen.
   Item 7. Address in U.S. Where Alien Will Reside. Self explanatory.
   Item 8. Name and Address of Prospective Employer. Enter the business
   name and address.
   Item 9. Occupation in Which Alien is seeking Work. Acceptable entries
   are Physicist, Bricklayer, Registered Nurse. Entries such as
   "construction work" or "scientific researcher" are not acceptable.
   Item 10. Self explanatory.
   Item 11. Education Training. Identify all educational facilities
   including trade or vocational schools, attended by alien, which give
   evidence of the alien's education and training related to the
   occupation listed in Item 9.
   Item 12. Additional Qualifications and Skills. Entries should relate to
   the occupation listed in Item 9 and should help establish the alien's
   qualifications for working in that occupation. Appropriate entries
   include any unusual occupational knowledge or abilities, such as the
   ability to speak, read, and write languages other than the language of
   the alien's native country.
   Item 13. Licenses. List licenses held by the alien which give evidence
   of proficiency in a profession, trade, or occupation.
   Item 14. Documentation. List any documents submitted with this form as
   evidence of the alien's qualifications. These may include statements
   from past employers, diplomas, and educational or training
   certificates.
   Item 15. Work Experience. Job descriptions should include specific
   details of the work performed, with emphasis on skills and knowledge
   required, services rendered, managerial or supervisory functions
   performed, materials or products handled, and machines, tools, and
   equipment used or operated.
   Item 16. Declarations. All copies of this form must bear the alien's
   original signature. If an agent is involved, the alien must complete
   the authorization of agent and take full responsibility for any
   representations the agent makes on behalf of the alien. It is
   recommended that the alien not sign a blank form.
   Instructions for Filing Applications for Alien Employment Certification
   for Permanent Employment in the United States

                                   Part I

                             General Information

   A. Introduction
   These instructions explain the application process for obtaining
   permanent labor certification under the Immigration and Nationality
   Act. While applicants for temporary labor certifications may use Form
   ETA 750, these instructions for temporary labor certifications.
   Section 212(a)(14) of the Act provides that certain aliens may obtain a
   visa for entrance into the United States in order to engage in
   permanent employment if the Secretary of Labor has first certified:
   There are not sufficient United States workers who are able, willing,
   qualified, and available for the employment, and
   The employment of the alien will not adversely effect the wages and
   working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed.
   This certification is referred to as a "labor certification" Labor
   Certifications are granted and denied by certifying officers in the
   national and regional offices of the Employment and Training
   Administration of the Department of Labor.
   The Department of Labors regulations on permanent labor certifications
   are published in part 656 of Title 20 of the Code of Federal
   Regulations.
   The regulations require that an application for Alien Employment
   Certification be filed in every instance, to initiate this process.
   This application form includes a Part A "Offer of Employment" and a
   Part B "Statement of Qualifications of Alien". The regulations set
   forth, in detail, the application process for permanent labor
   certification.
   B. Who May File
   1. An employer who desires to apply for a labor certification on behalf
   of an alien.
   An alien who desires to apply for a labor certification for a Schedule
   A occupation. Schedule A is described below under "Occupational
   Schedules".
   C. What To File
   An Employer who applies for a labor certification must file two copies
   each of the following:
   An Application for Alien Employment Certification (Form ETA 750)
   including Part A, "Offer of Employment and Part B "Statement of
   Qualifications of Alien" and
   Every applicable document described in Part II of these instructions
   (See Part II - Documentation to submit with Applications for
   Occupations not on Schedule A).
   An alien who applies for a labor certification for a Schedule A
   occupation must file two copies each of the following:
   Two copies of Form ETA 750, Application for Alien Employment
   Certification, as follows:
   Part B - Statement of Qualifications of Alien:
   Part A - Offer of Employment, if required by the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service.
   Documentary evidence which shows that the alien meets the requirements
   of the particular Schedule A occupational group under which the alien
   is applying for labor certification.
   D. Where To File
   An employer must file an application with the local State employment
   service office serving the area where the alien will be employed.

   An alien applying for Schedule A labor certification must file an
   application with a U.S. Consular Office if the alien is abroad or with
   an Immigration and Naturalization Service Office if the alien is in the
   United States, not with the Department of Labor or a State employment
   service.
   E. Occupational Schedules
   To facilitate the processing of requests for labor certifications, the
   United States Employment Service, Department of Labor has established
   schedules with predetermined findings for specific occupations:
   Schedule A is a list of occupations for which the Administrator, United
   States Employment Service, has determined that there are not sufficient
   U.S. workers who are able, willing qualified, and available and that
   the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed
   will not be adversely affected by the employment of aliens.
   Schedule B is a list of occupations for which the Administrator, United
   States Employment Service, has determined that generally there are
   sufficient U.S. workers who are able, willing qualified, and available
   and that the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers similarly
   employed generally will be adversely affected by the employment of
   aliens.
   Applications for Schedule A Labor certifications are granted or denied
   by the Immigration and Naturalization Service or the U.S. Consular
   office where the application is filed. General documentation
   requirements for Schedule A occupations are described in part IV of
   these instructions.
   Application for alien Employment Certification forms and instructions
   and information on occupations listed on Schedules A and B may be
   obtained from State employment service offices, Immigration and
   Naturalization Service District Offices, and Consular offices abroad.
   F. Fraud, False Statements and Perjury
   Any employer or alien, or their agent or attorney, who, in the labor
   certification application process, knowingly and willfully falsifies,
   conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact,
   or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or
   representations, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing
   the same to contain any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or
   entry, is subject to prosecution and a fine of not more than $10,000 or
   imprisonment of not more than five years, or both. 18 U.S.C. 1001.
   Whoever knowingly subscribes as true any false statement with respect
   to a material fact in any Application for Alien Employment
   Certification or knowingly presents any such application containing,
   any such false statement is subject to prosecution and a fine of not
   more than $2,000 or imprisonment of not more than 5 years or both. 18
   U.S.C. 1546.
   Whoever, in an Application for Alien Employment Certification willfully
   subscribes as true any material which he or she does not believe to be
   true is subject to prosecution for perjury and a fine of not more than
   $2,000 or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both. 18 U.S.C.
   162(2). This penalty applies whether the statement or subscription is
   made within or outside the United States.
   G. Other Information
   Employers and aliens may have agents apply for labor certification on
   behalf. Each party (employer and/or alien) represented by an agent must
   sign a statement designating the agent and taking full responsibility
   for the accuracy of any representations made by the agent. The
   authorization statements are in Parts A and B of the Application for
   Alien Employment Certification Form. Since employers and aliens must
   take full responsibility for the accuracy of their agents
   representations, they are advised not to sign blank application forms.
   Employers and aliens may have attorneys represent them. Each attorney
   must file a Notice of Appearance on Immigration and Naturalization
   Service Form G-28, naming the attorneys client(s).
   The Department of Labor will notify the employer in writing, with a
   copy to the alien, of determinations on the employers Application for
   Alien Employment Certification.
   Labor certifications, unless invalidated by the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service or by a Consul of the United States Department
   of State, are valid indefinitely. Invalidations are made in cases of
   fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact involving the
   labor certification application.
   If a labor certification application has been denied, the employer may
   file a new application for the same occupation at any time after 6
   months from the date of the denial of certification. However, if the
   denial was solely because the wage offered was too low, the employer
   may reapply immediately.
   Refusal to complete any item on the application form or to submit
   documentation required by regulations is grounds for denying the
   application.
   Documents not in the English language must be accompanied by a
   translation, certified by the translator as to the accuracy of the
   translation and his or her competency to translate.

                                   Part II

   Documentation to Submit With Applications for Occupations Not on
   Schedule A
   The Department of Labors regulations for the permanent labor
   certification process require the employer to submit documentation
   which shows clearly that the job, the job offer, and recruitment of
   U.S. workers for the job are all in compliance with the regulations.
   This Part describes the documentation required by the regulations. The
   documentation requirements described in this Part do not apply to
   applications for Schedule A occupations. Documentation for Schedule A
   occupations is described in Part IV of these instructions. The employer
   must submit the required general documentation, as well as the specific
   documentation which may be required for the particular occupation.
   A. General Documentation Requirements
   Failure of the employer to comply with any of the eight certifications
   in item 23 of Part A, Form ETA 750 may result in denial of the
   Application. The certifying officer may require the employer to submit
   additional documentation, As appropriate, to document clearly
   compliance with any of the eight certifications.
   As attachments to the Application for Alien Employment Certification
   form, the employer must submit the following documentation, to show
   clearly that the employer has been attempting to recruit U.S. workers
   for the job as required by the Department of Labors regulations. (For
   job offers involving Sheepherders, See Section H below):
   The employer has been attempting to recruit U.S. workers for the job
   opportunity at the prevailing wage and at prevailing working conditions
   through the labor referral and recruitment sources normal to the
   occupation, without success, and has reason to think recruitment will
   continue to be unsuccessful. Such sources that may be appropriate in
   particularly instances are recruitment at private employment agencies,
   labor unions, schools and colleges, radio or television advertisements,
   and development or promotion of present employees. If any such
   recruitment has taken place, the employer must document the results of
   recruitment by naming the applicants and the lawful job-related reason
   for not hiring each applicant and submit copies of resumes and job
   application forms supporting the reasons for not hiring each applicant.
   The job offer, as shown on Part A of the Application for Alien
   Employment Certification form and in advertisements, notices, and other
   recruitment methods used by the employer may not describe the job with
   unduly restrictive job requirements are requirements not normal to the
   occupation, unless the employer adequately documents that the
   requirements arise from business necessity. "Business necessity" is not
   employer or customer preference or convenience, it is a requirement
   which, if absent, would actually undermine the employers business. The
   employer must always document the business necessity for a language
   other than English.
   If the job involves a combination of duties, e.g. engineer-pilot, the
   employer must document one or more of the following:
   The employer has normally employed persons for that combination of
   duties; and/or
   Workers customarily perform that combination of duties in the
   geographic area; and/or
   The combination of duties is based on a business necessity.
   The employer must describe on the forms the job and recruitment methods
   using the actual minimum requirements needed to perform the job. The
   employer must state whether it has hired workers with less training or
   experience for similar jobs, and, if so, the employer must explain why
   it is not feasible to do so for the job offered to the alien.
   If unions are customarily used as a recruitment source in the area or
   industry, the employer must document such recruitment, clearly showing
   that they were unable to refer U.S. workers.
   B. Job Offers for Household Domestic Service Workers
   If the job is for a household domestic service worker, and the employer
   additionally requires the worker to live on the employers premises, the
   employer must submit, in addition to the documentation described above
   in the section on "General Documentation Requirements," all of the
   following documentation:
   A complete statement for live at work job offers on Form ETA 750, Part
   A.
   Two copies of an employment contract between the employer and the
   alien, each signed and dated by both. (Not by their agents.) The
   employment contract must clearly state:
   The wages to be paid on an hourly and weekly basis;
   Total hours of employment per week, and the exact daily work schedule;
   That the alien is free to leave the employers premises during all
   non-work hours except that the alien may work overtime if paid for the
   overtime at no less than the legally required hourly rate;
   That the alien will reside on the employers premises;
   Complete details of the duties to be performed by the alien;
   The total amount of any money to be advanced by the employer with
   details of specific items, and the terms of repayment by the alien of
   any such advance by the employer;
   That in no event shall the alien be required to give more than 2 weeks
   notice of intent to leave the employment contracted for and that the
   employer must give the alien at least 2 weeks notice before terminating
   employment;
   That a duplicate contract has been furnished to the alien;
   That room and board will be provided at no cost to the worker; and
   Any other agreements or conditions not specified on the Application for
   Alien Employment Certification form.
   Documentation of the aliens paid experience in the form of statements
   from past or present employers setting forth the dates (month and year)
   employment started and ended, hours of work per day, number of days
   worked per week, place where the alien worked, detailed statement of
   duties performed on the job, equipment and appliances used, and the
   amount of wages paid per week or month. The total paid experience must
   be equal to 1 full years employment on a full-time basis; e.g. 2 years
   experience working half-days is equal to one years full-time
   experience. However, six months experience working 16-hour days is not
   equal to 1 years experience. Time spent in a household domestic service
   training course cannot be included in the required one year of paid
   experience.
   Each statement documenting the aliens paid experience must be signed
   and must contain the name and address of the person who signed it, and
   show the date on which the statement was signed. A statement not in the
   English language must be accompanied by a translation certified by the
   translation as to the accuracy of the translation, and as to the
   translators competency to translate.
   C. Job Offers for Schedule B Occupations
   An employer filing an application for a Schedule B occupation, must
   petition the Department of Labors regional certifying officer through
   the State employment service for a Schedule B waiver.
   A petition for a waiver of Schedule B must include all of the
   following:
   All documentation described above in the section on "General
   Documentation Requirements" including a fully completed Application for
   Alien Employment Certification form ETA 750.
   Documentary verification, which the employer has obtained from the
   local employment service office serving the area of proposed employment
   that the employer has had a job order for the same job on file with the
   same local office for a period of 30 calendar days and that the local
   office and the employer, using the job order, were not able to obtain a
   qualified U.S. worker.
   All recruitment documentation described in Part III of these
   instructions.
   D. Job Offers for Physicians or Surgeons
   If an Application for Alien Employment Certification involves a job
   offer as a physician or surgeon, not on schedule A, the employer must
   submit, in addition to the documentation described above in the section
   on "General Documentation Requirements," one of the following three
   types of documentation:
   Evidence that the alien has passed Parts I and II of the National Board
   of Medical Examiners Examination; or
   Evidence that the alien has passed the Visa Qualifying Examination
   (VQE) offered by the National Board of Medical Examiners and is
   competent in oral and written English; or
   Evidence that the alien on January 9, 1977: (a) was a doctor of
   medicine fully and permanently licensed to practice medicine in a
   State, (b) held a valid specialty certificate issued by a constituent
   board of the American Board of Medical Specialties, and (c) was
   practicing medicine in a State; or
   Evidence that the alien is a graduate of a school of medicine
   accredited by a body or bodies approved for that purpose by the United
   States Commissioner of Education.
   E. Job Offers for College or University Teachers
   The Immigration and Nationality Act provides distinct tests for job
   offers as college and university teachers. The statue permits the
   employer to reject applications for the job from qualified U.S. workers
   who are less qualified than the alien. Not all faculty-level or
   professional rank jobs are considered teachers. Faculty members who do
   not teach are excluded from this provision. The employer must show that
   the alien was selected process through which the alien was found to be
   more qualified than any of the U.S. workers who applied for the job. As
   long as the employer submits adequate documentation of such a
   competitive recruitment and selection process, the employer need not
   make the recruitment efforts described below in Part III of these
   instructions.
   To document a competitive recruitment and selection process, the
   employee must submit the following:
   A statement, signed by an official with actual hiring authority,
   outlining, in detail, the complete recruitment procedure. This
   statement must also include:
   The total number of applicants responding.
   The number of all U.S. workers given serious consideration for the job
   offered the alien.
   The specific reasons why the alien is more qualified than all the U.S.
   workers who applied for the job; and
   A final report of the faculty, student, and/or administrative body
   making the recommendation or selection at the completion of the
   competitive recruitment and selection process.
   A copy of at least one advertisement for the job, placed in a national
   professional journal, giving the name and the date(s) of publication;
   the job title, duties, and requirements. Evidence of all other
   recruitment sources utilized; stating the results of such recruitment,
   must also be submitted.
   A written statement attesting to the degree of the aliens educational
   or professional qualifications and academic achievements.
   F. Job Offers for Aliens of Exceptional Ability in the Performing Arts
   The Immigration and Nationality Act provides distinct tests for job
   offers to aliens of exceptional ability in the performing arts. The
   statute permits the employer to reject applications for the job from
   qualified U.S. workers who are less qualified than the alien. As long
   as the employer submits adequate documentation that the alien is of
   exceptional ability in the performing arts and of recruitment through
   advertising and appropriate unions the employer need not perform the
   recruitment activities described below in Part III of these
   instructions. The employer must submit the following:
   Documentation to show the aliens exceptional ability, such as
   Documents testifying to the current widespread acclaim and
   international recognition accorded to the alien; receipt of
   internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence;
   Documents showing the aliens work experience during the past year did,
   and the aliens intended work in the United State will, require
   exceptional ability;
   Published material by or about the alien, such as critical reviews in
   major newspapers, periodicals and trade journals (the titles, date and
   author of such material must be indicated);
   Documentary evidence of earnings commensurate with the claimed level of
   ability;
   Playbills and star billings;
   Documents attesting to the outstanding reputation of theaters, concert
   halls, nightclubs and other establishments in which the alien has
   appeared or is scheduled to appear, and/or;
   Documents attesting to the outstanding reputation or repertory
   companies, ballet group, orchestras or other organizations with which
   the alien has performed in the past years in a leading or starring
   capacity.
   A copy of at least one advertisement placed in a national publication
   appropriate to the occupation and the results. The advertisement shall:
   Identify the employers name, address and the location of the employment
   if other than the employers location;
   Describe the job opportunity with particularity:
   State the rate of pay, which shall not be below the prevailing wage for
   the occupation;
   Offer prevailing working conditions;
   State the employers minimum job requirements;
   Offer wages, terms, and conditions of employment which are no less
   favorable than those offered to the alien.
   Documentation that unions, if customarily used as a recruitment source
   in the area or industry, were unable to refer equally qualified U.S.
   workers.
   G. Job Offers for Sheepherders
   If an Application for Alien Employment Certification involves a job
   offer as a sheepherder, the employer need not submit the documentation
   described above in the section on "General Documentation Requirements."
   Instead, the employer must submit all of the following documentation;
   A completed Application for Alien Employment Certification form. (Form
   ETA 750), including the job offer for alien employment, and a statement
   of qualifications of the alien.
   A signed letter or letters from all U.S. employers who have employed
   the alien as a sheepherder during the immediately preceding 36 months
   attesting that the alien has been employed in the United States
   lawfully and continuously as sheepherder, for at least 33 of the
   immediately preceding 36 months.
   Job offers for sheepherders should be filed directly with a District
   Office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service or a consular
   office of the Department of State for processing and not with a local
   office of the State Employment Service or an office of the Department
   of Labor.

                                  Part III

   Recruitment Efforts After Submission of an Application for Alien
   Employment
   This Part of the instructions details the recruitment for the job,
   which must be conducted after submission of the Application for Alien
   Employment Certification, including the fully-completed application
   form and all necessary documentation described in Part II of these
   instructions, to the local employment service office.
   Employers seeking labor certifications for jobs as college or
   university teachers or on behalf of aliens of exceptional ability in
   the performing arts and aliens applying for labor certifications in
   occupations listed on Schedule A need not make the recruitment efforts
   described in this Part.
   A. Job Order
   Upon receipt of a completed application (except in the situations
   described in the above paragraph) the local office of the State
   employment service will make additional efforts to assist the employer
   in finding able, willing, and qualified United States workers who are
   available for the job. The State employment service office will examine
   the application and from it will prepare and process a job order
   through the regular employment service recruitment system for 30
   calendar days. The employment service may refer U.S. workers to the
   employer. The employer must cooperate in this attempt to recruit U.S.
   workers.
   B. Employment Service Advertisement
   In conjunction with the employment service job order, the employer must
   advertise the job opportunity for at least three consecutive days, in a
   newspaper of general circulation or a professional or ethnic
   publication as appropriate for the occupation and which is most likely
   to bring responses. The advertisement shall:
   Direct applicants to report to the local State employment service
   office for referral to the employer.
   Include a local office name or identification number and the complete
   address or telephone number of the local office.
   Describe the job opportunity with particularity:
   Offer at least the prevailing wage for the occupation.
   State the rate of pay and offer at least prevailing working conditions.
   State the jobs actual minimum requirements.
   Offer training if the job opportunity is the type for which the
   employer customarily provides training and;
   Offer wages, terms and conditions of employment which are no less
   favorable than those offered the alien.
   The employer shall supply the local office with at least one copy of
   the advertisement, with the name of the newspaper or publication and
   dates of publication.
   C. Recruitment Within Employers Organization
   As part of the recruitment process, the employer must post a notice of
   the job opportunity in bold letters in a conspicuous place within its
   organization. The notice must contain the same information required for
   the employment service advertisement, including the wage offer and
   other terms and conditions. The notice must be posted for at least ten
   consecutive business days where notices to employees, such as wage and
   hour and occupational safety and health notices, are normally posted.
   The requirement of posting does not apply to private households.
   The employer must submit the notice posted, starting where and for how
   long the notice was posted, and whether it remained unobstructed for
   the entire period of posting.
   D. Other Recruitment
   If the employer has not used other recruitment sources normal to the
   occupation or otherwise required by the Department of Labors
   regulations, the employment service local office or the certifying
   officer may require such recruitment after submission of the
   application.
   E. Results of Recruitment
   The employer must report to the local employment service office the
   results of its recruitment through the employment service job order,
   the employment service advertisement, the notice posted within the
   employers organization, and other post-application recruitment.
   Documentation of the results must include all of the following:
   The number of U.S. workers responding to the recruitment;
   The names, and the addresses, phone numbers, and resumes of all U.S.
   workers interviewed; and
   The lawful job-related reason for not hiring each applicant.
   F. Employment Service Findings
   After the required recruitment period, the State employment service
   will forward the application and all other documentation, along with
   its findings, to the appropriate Department of Labor regional
   certifying officer for a determination. If the certifying officer
   denies the application, the employer and the alien will be informed of
   their rebuttal and appeal rights.

                                   Part IV

   Documentation Required for Occupations on Schedule A
   The Schedule A list of pre-certified occupations is subject to revision
   from time to time, based on U.S. labor market conditions. Therefore,
   current information on specific occupational groups and qualification
   standards included in Schedule A should be obtained from State
   employment service offices, the U.S. Department of States Consular
   Offices abroad, and District Offices of the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service.
   Documentary requirements for individual eligibility may vary and
   specific information can be obtained from the above agencies and the
   regulations at 20 CFR 656.22.
   A determination on a Schedule A application is based on whether the
   alien meets the qualification standards of the group under which the
   alien is applying for labor certification. The alien may have to show
   evidence of prearranged employment. The Schedule A determination of the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service or U.S. Department of State is
   conclusive and final.
   General documentation requirements which may apply to any Schedule A
   group are:
   A.  Original documents may be submitted, not necessarily in duplicate;
   B.  If return of the original is desired, it may be accompanied by a
   photostatic or typewritten copy, provided such copies are permitted by
   law (Do not make copies of a certificate of naturalization or
   citizenship);
   C.  Photostatic copies without the original may be submitted, if they
   are certified by an immigration or consular officer as identical to the
   original;
   D.  Affidavits or published material are recommended as evidence of the
   aliens technical training or specialized experience; and
   E.  Affidavits must be signed and dated by someone familiar with the
   aliens work, such as former employers or recognized experts and must
   fully identify the applicant showing the capacity in which the
   applicant is testifying.
   Reminders
   Read instructions carefully before completing forms and preparing
   documentation.
   Applications for Alien Employment Certification must be submitted in
   duplicate.
   Date and sign all copies of forms in original signature.
   Employers must file their application with the State Employment Service
   Office serving the area of intended employment.
   Schedule A applications filed by aliens must be filed with District
   Offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the United
   States or with U.S. Consular offices abroad.
   The employer and the alien will be notified, in writing, when a
   determination is made on tier application.
   Questions on procedures for filing for a labor certification should be
   directed to States Employment Service Offices.


     LCA Online
     Application
     About FLC
                    Mission
                    Organization
                    How do I...
                    Policy/Regs

     Hiring Foreign
     Workers
                     Permanent
                    H-1B
                    H-1C
                    H-2A
                    H-2B
                    D-1

     Forms and
     Instructions
                    ETA 9035
                    ETA 750
                    All Forms

     Prevailing Wage
     Information
                    Online Wage
                    Library
                    Adverse Wage
                    Effect
                    OES

     Processing Times
      LCA Numbers   LCA Numbers

     Related Links

     Contacts
   Back to Top Back to Top
                                                         www.doleta.gov
     ___________________________________________________________________

          Contact Us | Privacy and Security Statement | Disclaimers
