http://emtech.boulder.nist.gov/div814/intro.htm

   1x1 pixel image used to draw a thin vertical line between columns

About the Electromagnetic Technology Division

   The Electromagnetic Technology Division, part of NIST's Electronics and
   Electrical Engineering Laboratory, advances measurement science in a
   variety of fields using state-of-the-art science and technology,
   especially
     * quantum effects, including superconductivity,
     * low temperatures to reduce thermal noise, and
     * state-of-the-art lithography to achieve small sizes.

   Major activities of the Division include:
     * Josephson array voltage standards, the most complex superconducting
       integrated circuits in actual use,
     * a new capacitance standard, based on counting electrons one at a
       time using nanometer scale tunnel junctions,
     * a new temperature standard, based on precision measurement of
       Johnson (thermal) noise,
     * a new x-ray spectrometer combining the best features of two
       different earlier devices, now being licensed for
       commercialization, and
     * sensors of electromagnetic radiation often using lithographed
       nanoscale antennas, and
     * new understanding of microwave frequency losses in high temperature
       superconductor films.

   Located at the base of the Flatiron mountains in Boulder, Colorado, the
   Division draws heavily on its optical and electron beam fabrication
   capabilities as well as those for creating micro-electromechanical
   systems (MEMS).

   For additional information about these and other topics select the
   links at the leftof this page.

   Work on magnetic data storage and bulk superconductivity that was
   formerly carried out in the Electromagnetic Technology Division is now
   being carried out in the EEEL Magnetic Technology Division.
   1x1 pixel image used to draw a vertical line between columns

                              Ronald Hajime Ono

                                  [ono.jpg]

                            September 8, 1954 to
                              October 11, 2001

   With great sadness we report to you that Ron Ono died on October 11,
   2001. His death was due to the natural progression of his hemophilia.
   We believe it happened quickly.

   A memorial service was held on Saturday, October 20, concluding with a
   celebration at Ron's favorite hangout the Twisted Vine Grill and Wine
   Bar in Boulder. You can read much of what was said in tribute to Ron.

   All of us in Boulder, and many of you around the world, miss Ron
   greatly. He brought extraordinary joy to all of us. As painful as it
   is, we need to try to remember what Leslie Marmon Silko wrote, "When
   someone dies, you 'don't get over it' by forgetting, you 'get over it'
   by remembering.

   Memorial contributions may be made to: UCHSC Hemophilia Center, P.O.
   Box 6507, Aurora, CO 80045.

   Please watch this Division Web site for details:
   http://emtech.boulder.nist.gov/.

   If you can't read the Onoism on Ron's tee shirt above, it says "Outside
   of a dog / A book is a man's best friend. / Inside of a dog / It's too
   dark to read," by Groucho Marx.

   Last Updated: October 25, 2001
