http://fire.pppl.gov/EC_Green_paper_comments.doc

    EUROPEAN COMMISSION DIRECTORATE-GENERAL FOR ENERGY AND TRANSPORT
   Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply The Green
   Paper Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply was
   adopted by the European Commission on 29 November 2000. The Commission
   hereby invites anybody who, after reading the text, would like to react
   to it to submit their comments or proposals by 30 November 2001,
   preferably by e-mail or using the form below. All contributions will be
   placed on the Directorate-General's web site (unless you specify
   otherwise). E-mailaddress: tren-enersupply@cec.eu.int Postal address:
   European Commission Directorate-General for Energy and Transport Mrs
   Nina Commeau 200, rue de la Loi B-1049 Brussels Fax: Mrs Nina Commeau +
   32 (2) 295.61.05 Web address of Green Paper::
   http://europa.eu.int/comm/energy_transport/en/lpi_en.html Contribution
   to the debate on the Green Paper Towards a European strategy for the
   security of energy supply Name Organisation What are you areas of
   interest? Contact person E-Mail Telephone Fax Address Please add your
   answers after the question(s) which deal most closely with the
   subject(s) on which you wish to comment so that the Commission can deal
   with the remarks efficiently and swiftly. Can the European Union accept
   an increase in its dependence on external energy sources without
   compromising its security of supply and European competitiveness? For
   which sources of energy would it be appropriate, if this were the case,
   to foresee a framework policy for imports? In this context, is it
   appropriate to favour an economic approach: energy cost; or
   geopolitical approach: risk of disruption? Answer: Does not Europe's
   increasingly integrated internal market, where decisions taken in one
   country have on an impact on the others, call for a consistent and
   co-ordinated policy at Community level? Answer: Are tax and state aid
   policies in the energy sector an obstacle to competitiveness in the
   European Union or not? Given the failure of attempts to harmonise
   indirect taxation, should not the whole issue of energy taxation be
   re-examined taking account of energy and environmental objectives?
   Answer: In the framework of an ongoing dialogue with producer
   countries, what should supply and investment promotion agreements
   contain? Given the importance of a partnership with Russia in
   particular, how can stable quantities, prices and investments be
   guaranteed? Answer: Should more reserves be stockpiled - as already
   done for oil - and should other energy sources be included, such as gas
   or coal? Should the Community take on a greater role in stock
   management and, if so, what should the objectives and modalities be?
   Does the risk of physical disruption to energy supplies justify more
   onerous measures for access to resources? Answer: How can we develop
   and ensure better operation of energy transport networks in the
   European Union and neighbouring countries so as to enable the internal
   market to function properly and guarantee security of supply? Answer:
   The development of some renewable energy sources calls for major
   efforts in terms of research and technological development, investment
   aid and operational aid. Should co-financing of this aid include a
   contribution from sectors which received substantial initial
   development aid and which are now highly profitable (gas, oil,
   nuclear)? Answer: Seeing that nuclear energy is one of the elements in
   the debate on tackling climate change and energy autonomy, how can the
   Community find a solution to the problem of nuclear waste, reinforcing
   nuclear safety and developing research into reactors of the future, in
   particular fusion technology? Answer: Which policies should permit the
   European Union to fulfil its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol? What
   measures could be taken in order to exploit fully potential energy
   savings which would help to reduce both our external dependence and CO2
   emissions? Answer: Can an ambitious programme to promote biofuels and
   other substitute fuels, including hydrogen, geared to 20% of total fuel
   consumption by 2020, continue to be implemented via national
   initiatives, or are co-ordinated decisions required on taxation,
   distribution and prospects for agricultural production? Answer: Should
   energy saving in buildings (40% of energy consumption), whether public
   or private, new or under renovation, be promoted through incentives
   such as tax breaks, or are regulatory measures required along the lines
   of those adopted for major industrial installations? Answer: Energy
   saving in the transport sector (32% of energy consumption) depends on
   redressing the growing imbalance between road and rail. Is this
   imbalance inevitable, or could corrective action be taken, however
   unpopular, notably to encourage lower use of cars in urban areas? How
   can the aims of opening up the sector to competition, investment in
   infrastructure to remove bottlenecks and intermodality be reconciled?
   Answer: How can we develop more collaborative visions and integrate the
   long-term dimension into deliberations and actions undertaken by public
   authorities and other involved parties in order to evolve a sustainable
   system of energy supply. How are we to prepare the energy options for
   the future? Answer: Any other questions or proposals: Thank you for
   replying to this questionnaire. Rue de la Loi 200, B-1049 Bruxelles -
   Belgique - Bureau: TÊlÊphone: ligne directe (+32-2)29..........,
   standard 299.11.11. TÊlÊcopieur: 29.......... TÊlex: COMEU B 21877.
   Adresse tÊlÊgraphique: COMEUR Bruxelles.
