http://cs-www.ncsl.nist.gov/ipsec/

   National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) ... working with
    industry to develop and apply technology, measurements, and standards
                             NIST IPsec Project

   horizontal line



   Cerberus - NIST's Reference Implementation of IPsec Cerberus
   NIST's Reference Implementation of IPsec
   PlutoPlus - NIST's Reference Implementation of IKE/ISAKMP PlutoPlus
   NIST's Reference Implementation of IKE/ISAKMP
   IPsec-WIT - NIST's IPsec WWW-Based Interoperability Tester IPsec-WIT
   NIST's IPsec WWW-Based Interoperabililty Tester
   NIST IPsec Presentations and Papers NIST IPsec Presentations and Papers
   NIST FY00-01 IPsec Project Plan NIST FY00-01 IPsec Project Plan
   NIST FY99 IPsec Project Plan NIST FY99 IPsec Project Plan
   IPsec Internet Drafts IPsec Internet Drafts

                                Introduction

   The NIST IPsec Project is concerned with providing authentication,
   integrity and confidentiality security services at the Internet (IP)
   Layer, for both the current IP protocol (IPv4) and the next generation
   IP protocol (IPv6). Current efforts are concentrated on IPv4 because of
   the high level of interest in fielding Internet security technology as
   rapidly as possible. Implementing IPsec requires modifications to the
   system's communications routines and a new systems process that
   conducts secret key negotiations. The main deliverables of the NIST
   IPsec project are:
     * Cerberus - adds IP communications security to the system
     * PlutoPlus - conducts secret key negotiations and management
     * IPsec-WIT - an interactive Web-based interoperability tester that
       uses Cerberus and PlutoPlus to enable developers and users to test
       the interoperability of their systems or to demonstrate IPsec's
       functionality

   horizontal line

                                 Description

   The NIST IPsec Project concerns itself with the emerging Internet
   protocols that provide increased services at the Internet level, in
   particular a larger address space and built-in security facilities.
   These security facilities (known as IPsec) are significant since they
   will be used to secure the infrastructure of the Internet (routing,
   DNS, etc.) and they can also be used to protect application-level
   Internet communications. They enable a centrally-controlled access
   policy, as well as a multi-level, layered approach to security. IPsec
   provides the following security services: data origin authentication,
   connectionless integrity, replay protection, data confidentiality,
   limited traffic flow confidentiality, and key negotiation and
   management. The IETF has mandated the use of IPsec wherever feasible;
   the standards documents are close to completion, and there are numerous
   implementations.

   To expedite the development of this crucial technology, ITL staff
   designed and developed Cerberus, a reference implementation of the
   latest IPsec specifications, and PlutoPlus a reference implementation
   of the IPsec key negotiation and management specifications . Numerous
   organizations from all segments of the Internet industry have acquired
   these implementations as a platform for on-going research on advanced
   issues in IPsec technology.

   To answer an industry call for more frequent and accessible
   interoperability testing for emerging commercial implementations of
   IPsec technology, ITL developed the NIST IPsec WWW-based
   Interoperability Tester, IPsec-WIT, which is built around the Cerberus
   and PlutoPlus prototype implementations. IPsec-WIT also serves as an
   experiment in test system architectures and technologies. The novel use
   of WWW technology allows IPsec-WIT to provide interoperability testing
   services anytime and anywhere without requiring any distribution of
   test system software, or relocation of the systems under test.

   ITL staff also collaborated with key industry representatives to
   co-author protocol specifications and resolve technical impasses that
   threatened the progress of the IPSec design and standardization
   process.
   horizontal line

                          Presentations and Papers

     * Sheila Frankel, Rob Glenn and Scott Kelly, " The Candidate AES
       Cipher Algorithms and Their Use With IPsec,"
       draft-ietf-ipsec-ciph-aes-cbc-00.txt, February 2000.
     * Sheila Frankel, " The IKE (Internet Key Exchange) Protocol," NIST
       Key Management Workshop, February 2000.
     * Sheila Frankel, " Implementing and Testing IPsec: NIST's
       Contributions and Future Developments," RSA 2000 Conference,
       January 2000.
     * Sheila Frankel, " PlutoPlus: Policy and PKI Plans for FY00,"
       November 1999.
     * Sheila Frankel, " NIST's IPsec Web-Based Interoperability Tester
       (IPsec-WIT)," IPsec99 Conference, October 1999.
     * Rodney Thayer, Naganand Doraswamy and Rob Glenn, " IP Security
       Document Roadmap," RFC 2411, November 1998.
     * Rob Glenn and Stephen Kent, " The NULL Encryption Algorithm and Its
       Use With IPsec," RFC 2410, November 1998.
     * Cheryl Madson and Rob Glenn, " The Use of HMAC-SHA-1-96 within ESP
       and AH," RFC 2404, November 1998.
     * Cheryl Madson and Rob Glenn, " The Use of HMAC-MD5-96 within ESP
       and AH," RFC 2403, November 1998.
     * Rob Glenn, " Cerberus: an IPsec Reference Implementation," 1998
       Linux Congress, August 1998. (HTML)
     * Sheila Frankel," Crossing the Styx: Taming the Underworld Using
       Cerberus and PlutoPlus (ITL's Contributions in the Area of Internet
       Security)," March 1998.
     * Sheila Frankel," IPv6," October 1997.
     * Pau-Chen Cheng and Rob Glenn, " Test Cases for HMAC-MD5 and
       HMAC-SHA-1," RFC 2202, September 1997.

   horizontal line

                                  Contacts:
              Sheila Frankel, Computer Security Division (CSD)
         Robert Glenn, Advanced Network Technologies Division (ANTD)

   horizontal line

    Computer Security Division and CSRC Home Page CSD and CSRC Home Page
         ANTD Home Page ANTD Home Page NIST Home Page NIST Home Page
         Please send comments or suggestions to ipsec-info@nist.gov
                  Last Modified: Friday, December 21, 2001.
