http://www-ree.jpl.nasa.gov/testbeds.html


   [reehome.jpg]

   Overview

   What's New?

   Applications

   Testbeds

   System
   Software

   Current Schedule

   Reports & Publications

   Feedback
   [testbeds.gif]
   [465rule.gif]

   [quadstamp4.jpg]
   The purpose of the Computing Testbeds initiative is to explore and
   develop a process for translating commercial high performance scalable
   parallel computing architectures into low power spaceborne
   implementations. This architecture must rely, to the maximum extent
   practical, on commercial-off-the-shelf technologies and must minimize
   or eliminate the use of radiation-hardened components. The process must
   be consistent with the rapid (18 months or less) transfer of new
   earth-based technologies to NASA space missions. Translated
   architectures must satisfy a number of additional criteria, including
   no single point of failure and graceful performance degradation in the
   event of hardware failure.

   The Computing Testbeds initiative will develop a series of hardware
   prototypes, leading to the demonstration of a capability of at least
   300 MOPS /watt. This represents an increase of two orders of magnitude
   over the power performance of the flight computer onboard the Mars
   Pathfinder spacecraft which landed on Mars in July, 1997. At the
   present time, a hardware testbed is being developed to demonstrate that
   significant power performance (30 MOPS/watt) can be achieved in a
   scalable embedded architecture using commercial technology. This
   testbed will also be the platform for conducting software implemented
   fault tolerance experiments and for developing the system software
   needed to achieve the reliability goals. The next step will be the
   design and fabrication of a hardware prototype which will match the
   mass and form factor of a future flight model and will demonstrate
   scalability (50 nodes), reliability (0.99 over five years), and a power
   performance of at least 300 MOPS/watt.
   Testbed Capabilities
    First Generation Testbed Configuration
       Level 0 Testbed

   [465rule.gif]
   Dr. John Davidson
   Manager, Testbeds
   Remote Exploration and Experimentation Project
   Page last updated Fri, Jan 28, 2000
