http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/alerts/usabalrt.htm


   FTC Business Alert!

                         Selling 'American-Made' Products?
                           What Businesses Need to Know
                          About Making Made in USA Claims

      Consumers who see "Made in USA" on a product expect the claim to be
      truthful and accurate. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11,
      news reports suggest that consumers are more sensitive to "Made in USA"
      claims and more interested in buying American-made goods.

      According to the Federal Trade Commission, "Made in USA" means that
      "all or virtually all" the product has been made in America. That is,
      all significant parts, processing and labor that go into the product
      must be of U.S. origin. Products should not contain any - or only
      negligible - foreign content. The FTC's Enforcement Policy Statement
      and its business guide, Complying with the Made in USA Standard, spell
      out the details of the standard, with examples of situations when
      domestic origin claims would be accurate and when they would be
      inappropriate. See www.ftc.gov/os/statutes/usajump.htm for more
      information.

      Here's how the FTC evaluates "Made in USA" claims in product
      advertising, labeling and packaging:

      For most products: Unless the product is an automobile or a textile or
      wool product, there's no law that requires manufacturers and marketers
      to make a "Made in USA" claim. If a business chooses to make the claim,
      however, the FTC's "Made in USA" "all or virtually all" standard
      applies.

      For textile and wool products: Under the Textile and Wool Acts, these
      products must be labeled to identify the country where they were
      processed or manufactured.

        * Imported products must identify the country where they were
          processed or manufactured.
        * Products made entirely in the U.S. of materials also made in the
          U.S. must be labeled "Made in USA" or with an equivalent phrase.
        * Products made in the U.S. of imported materials must be labeled to
          show the processing or manufacturing that takes place in the U.S.,
          as well as the imported component.
        * Products manufactured in part in the U.S. and in part abroad must
          identify both aspects.

      In addition, print and online catalogs must disclose whether a textile
      was made in USA, imported or both.

      For more information about country of origin labeling requirements for
      textile, wool and fur products, see "Threading Your Way Through the
      Labeling Requirements Under the Textile and Wool Acts.
   "

   American Automobile Labeling Act: This Act requires that each
   automobile manufactured on or after October 1, 1994, for sale in the
   U.S. bear a label disclosing where the car was assembled, the
   percentage of equipment that originated in the U.S. and Canada, and the
   country of origin of the engine and transmission. For more information,
   call the Consumer Programs Division of the National Highway Traffic
   Safety Administration (202-366-0846) or visit the NHTSA website.

   Suspect a violation? If you believe that a product promoted as "Made in
   USA" is not America-made or contains significant foreign parts or
   processing, file a complaint with the FTC. If you are aware of import
   or export fraud, call the U.S. Customs Service Commercial Fraud
   Hotline, 1-800-ITS-FAKE.


      The FTC works for the consumer to prevent fraudulent, deceptive and
      unfair business practices in the marketplace and to provide information
      to help consumers spot, stop and avoid them. To file a complaint or to
      get free information on consumer issues, call toll-free, 1-877-FTC-HELP
      (1-877-382-4357), or use the online complaint form. The FTC enters
      Internet, telemarketing, identity theft and other fraud-related
      complaints into Consumer Sentinel, a secure, online database available
      to hundreds of civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the U.S.
      and abroad.


   FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FOR THE CONSUMER
        1-877-FTC-HELP        www.ftc.gov

                                                              October 2001
