http://www.hq.nasa.gov/isemhelp/userguide.doc

   ISEM Work Management System (IWMS) USER GUIDE Version 1.0 Contents
   About This Guide This guide contains user information for the ISEM Work
   Management System (IWMS). Purpose The purpose of this guide is to
   provide explanations and instructions for users of IWMS as they
   initiate, track, and manage IT Service Requests (SRs). The detailed
   instructions in this guide are organized around the tasks that are
   associated with SRs. Users are given permissions for only the tasks
   that are appropriate to their responsibilities, and these vary with the
   individual. IWMS tasks include creating, scheduling, tracking,
   implementing, escalating, expediting, or setting priorities for IT SRs.
   Scope This guide provides step-by-step instructions for users who work
   with SRs, as the SRs move from creation to closure. The appendix to
   this guide includes descriptions of the workflow interactions of IWMS.
   Although this guide provides some detail of the overall processing of
   an IT Service Request, it is not intended to serve as the sole
   documentation of the Information Technology (IT) work functions
   performed or the services provided by Code CI and its contractors on
   behalf of their customers. IWMS Overview IWMS enables members of the
   user community at NASA Headquarters to create, track, and manage IT
   Service Requests (SRs) through an automated process. Automated,
   efficient management of the complete SR life cycle ensures both
   continuity and customer acceptance of the projected work and the
   schedule. Functions This Web-enabled application provides Headquarters
   users with a fully automated capability for SR workflow management.
   Visibility of SRs is provided for Requesters, Code Points of Contact
   (POCs) and ISEM Code Project Managers (ICPMs), from document creation
   through closure. Automated e-mail notification informs the appropriate
   users as an SR progresses toward completion. Functions include the
   following: Service Request initiation and update Search and retrieval
   of specified SRs Predefined reports and In-Depth Review reports, both
   with options for limiting the output Agenda displays - SR Review and
   CCB Access to support documents and presentations Archiving facility
   for completed or closed SRs. SRs can be reactivated if necessary.
   Features To enhance its functions, IWMS provides immediate updates to
   SRs and automatic notification as appropriate to the people who are
   responsible for moving them to closure. Immediate Updates In the IWMS
   environment, users who browse an SR see the most recent version of that
   SR and its current status. Throughout the life of the SR, the
   requirements remain intact, but additional support documents can be
   attached. User Permissions IWMS defines specific user permissions,
   which are associated with specific tasks in the life cycle of an SR.
   IWMS combines specific functions to support these tasks, and it also
   provides automated notification for users as appropriate for their
   responsibilities. Automatic Notification If you initiate or otherwise
   work with an SR, IWMS sends you e-mail notifications throughout the
   life cycle of the SR, advising you of its status. These notifications
   are meant to enhance, rather than replace, telephone or personal
   conversations regarding the requirements of the SR. The e-mail message
   that comes from IWMS has a link that takes you quickly to the next task
   associated with your responsibility in the SR life cycle. Note:
   Automated e-mail notifications for SR status changes can help you keep
   track of their progress and warn you when your action is required. If
   you work with more than one SR at a time, you may want to use Eudora
   filters so you can receive these notifications in folders that are
   dedicated to IWMS e-mail. Workflow Tasks and Permissions IWMS users can
   include any of the following: Interested persons who want to follow the
   progress of an SR Persons who initiate an SR Code POCs, ICPMs, and
   review board members who review and approve SRs. This section contains
   a brief description of the tasks that IWMS supports for each of these
   user types. IWMS supports some tasks directly by means of user
   permissions for certain tools. It supports other tasks by providing
   automated e-mail notification to all users concerned with a specific
   SR. Note: Your particular responsibilities may qualify you for more
   than one type of user permissions. In that case, your user menu will
   contain command buttons to support all the tasks you need to do. All
   Users If you are logged on to the NASA network at NASA Headquarters,
   you can browse IWMS to follow the progress of an SR. You need no
   special permissions to do this. Users Who Initiate Service Requests If
   you are in the NASA HQ X.500 Directory, you can create and submit an
   SR. Some SRs might require other activities from you. IWMS supports
   your tasks as a requestor without the need for user permissions:
   Initiating SRs and submitting them for processing Attaching supporting
   documentation, such as a Requirements Document, or removing it, at any
   time until the SR has been reviewed or approved for submittal to the SR
   Review Team Receiving e-mail notification that your SR has entered the
   system Receiving e-mail notifications to indicate the progress of your
   SR Code POCs As a Code POC, you can initiate or modify SRs and make
   decisions about whether they should be pursued. IWMS supports these
   tasks for users who have the appropriate permissions: Receiving e-mail
   notifications when an SR needs your review Editing SRs and attaching
   supporting documentation as necessary Concurring on SRs for your Code.
   Note: If you initiate an SR as a POC, your concurrence is automatic,
   and the SR is submitted for its next logical step. ISEM Code Project
   Managers As an ICPM, you modify SRs and make decisions about whether
   they should be pursued. IWMS supports these tasks for users who have
   the appropriate permissions: Receiving e-mail notifications when an SR
   needs your review Editing SRs and attaching supporting documentation as
   necessary Concurring on SRs for your Code IT Service Request Review
   Team As a member of the SR Review Team that meets daily, you make
   decisions about the priority of an SR. IWMS supports these tasks for
   users who have the appropriate permissions: Reviewing and assigning SRs
   Designating SRs as Class 1 or Class 2 Placing SRs in Pending status
   when additional information is required SRRT/ORR All Class 1 IT SRs
   must be presented to the CCB. IWMS enables you to check and ensure that
   an SR is posted for either SRRT or ORR. IWMS supports tasks in this
   process tasks for users who have the appropriate permissions: Review
   and approval of Class 1 SRs for development and/or deployment You
   receive special permissions to support these tasks. SR Managers As an
   SR manager, you oversee the resulting work after an SR is approved, and
   you communicate the status of the work. IWMS supports your role in the
   following: Concurring with/negotiating the requested completion date of
   SRs Scheduling an SRRT/CCB date for Class 1 SRs Presenting Class 1 SRs
   to the SRRT/CCB Accomplishing/overseeing the requested work Updating
   IWMS data throughout a task Archiving closed SRs Requirements for User
   Access IWMS is available to all NASA Headquarters users as a
   Web-enabled application, accessible from either a PC or a Macintosh
   workstation. IWMS relies extensively on the Headquarters e-mail system
   to notify respective participants of the progress of an SR as it
   progresses through IWMS. Requirements for accessing and using IWMS vary
   with the task you want to complete: To browse SRs, logging in to the
   NASA network enables you to access IWMS. To initiate an SR, an e-mail
   ID is sufficient for accessing IWMS and completing tasks. IWMS uses the
   X.500 directory as a source of data about you. Your Eudora e-mail ID is
   a part of your X.500 record: When you enter the ID in the logon dialog,
   IWMS captures your name and respective data from X.500. (Within Eudora,
   when you use ``Tools - Directory Service,'' you are also getting
   information from the X.500 Directory.) To complete the tasks associated
   with any of the other user roles, such as POC or ICPM, you need a
   specific IWMS user ID and password. These give you the permissions
   necessary for completing your particular IWMS tasks. If you play
   multiple roles in the SR life cycle, your user menu window will contain
   command buttons to support all your responsibilities. User Support User
   support is available from the NASA Headquarters IntelliCenter at
   358-HELP (4357) or through the ISEM Code Project Manager. Running IWMS
   The instructions here are for all IWMS users. Other chapters provide
   the steps for completing specific tasks within IWMS. Accessing IWMS To
   access IWMS: Log in to the NASA Headquarters network. Access the
   Internet Tool Suite and run Netscape Navigator. Specify the URL you
   were given for accessing IWMS. The IWMS main window is displayed.
   Switching Between Tasks To return to a previous window or change to a
   different task: If the IWMS command buttons are not present on the
   window you are using, click the Back button on your browser. If the
   Back button is not present, your task is open in a separate window.
   Close that window and open the minimized IWMS window on your Windows
   task bar. Exiting To exit IWMS: If you were browsing or initiating a
   request, simply close the IWMS main window. If you had to log on to
   IWMS to access the tools for your role, click the Log Off command
   button to close your session. Initiating a Service Request Any user who
   is in the NASA X.500 Directory can initiate an SR. When you initiate an
   SR, IWMS confirms this for you by e-mail and also notifies the Code
   POC. To initiate an SR: Click Initiate a new Service Request. IWMS
   displays an identification dialog. Complete the dialog: In the text box
   at the top, type your e-mail user ID. Note: For this release of IWMS,
   you must select Headquarters as your Center. Click Continue. IWMS
   displays the SR Requestor Information window, which shows the data from
   your record in NASA's X.500 Directory. Verify this data. If anything is
   incorrect, you can make temporary corrections here, but notify the POC
   for your Code to find out how to correct the information permanently.
   When the data is correct, click Continue. IWMS displays the IT Service
   Request form. Your personal information has been added to the form,
   along with your Code. You can change the Code. Check and complete the
   fields for the new SR: At Code, verify the NASA Code. If different from
   the one supplied, modify this information. At Check One, either NASA or
   Contractor is supplied from your information in the X.500 Directory. At
   Descriptive Title of Request, type 40 characters or less to help others
   understand the purpose of the SR. At Technical POC who helped define
   Requirements, if desired, provide the name of the ISEM Technical POC
   who helped define the requirements for the SR. At Requirements
   Definition, type the high-level requirements. Note: If the requirements
   for your SR are lengthy, you may prefer to type ``See attached'' in
   this field, and then write the requirements in a file and upload it
   using the fields at the bottom of the form. At Requested Completion
   Date, enter the date you would like the service completed. Use
   mm/dd/yyyy format. At Task Order Number, provide this number if you
   know it. At Funding Information, if you have information, provide it.
   Otherwise the Code POC or the Service Manager for the Code can usually
   supply it. At Upload SR Supporting Documents, specify any supporting
   documents that are ready to upload. Type a description and a path and
   filename for each one. If necessary, use the Browse button to select
   the file in a standard Windows dialog. Click Finish to submit the SR.
   IWMS confirms your action with a message and sends an e-mail
   notification to the Code POC. Evaluating Service Requests As a Code POC
   or, ICPM, you must log on before you can use IWMS to evaluate an SR and
   change its status in any way. Whenever you update or take action on an
   SR, IWMS notifies all the appropriate people by e-mail. Logging On On
   the IWMS main window: Click Logon. IWMS displays the Log On dialog. At
   User Name, type the user ID you were given for working in IWMS. At
   Password, type the password you were given. To change your password,
   contact your IWMS administrator. Click Continue. IWMS displays the
   command buttons associated with your permissions. Click the command
   button for the task you want to complete. Note that some commands
   enable you to work, while others simply display information for you. In
   Box -Contains the SRs that await your review and action. . Note: When
   you are the originator of an SR, your concurrence is assumed. The SR
   moves to the next step in its life cycle without going to your In Box.
   . . Log Off - Exits the functions of IWMS that are associated with your
   user permissions. This returns you to the main IWMS window. Handling
   SRs in Your In Box On your user menu, click In Box. IWMS displays a
   list of the SRs in your In Box. Each item on the list contains a link
   to the full SR and another to the supporting documents. You can sort
   the records by clicking the desired column heading. Sort your SRs, if
   desired, by clicking on one of the column headings. To see the Service
   Request form for an SR, click its SR Number. IWMS displays the Service
   Request form. If you make changes to it, click Save. To close it, click
   Close. for that SR. IWMS displays an SR summary and a list of any
   support documents for the SR. The page also displays messages about
   concurrence and provides links to the SR and to comments about it. To
   display the SR form for editing, click Edit SR. To view or insert a
   comment, click SR Comments. A page displays previous comments and
   provides a text box for adding your own comments. If you type your own
   comment in the text box, click Save Comment. Click Close to return to
   the support documents for the SR. To upload an SR support document,
   either type a description and the path and filename, or use the Browse
   button to select the file in a standard Windows dialog. When finished
   with the SR, click either Approve SR or Deny SR. IWMS displays a dialog
   to certify your identity. Type your password and click OK. Working with
   a CCB Agenda If you participate in the CCB, you have a view of the CCP
   Agenda that enables you to make decisions on line. You might be the CCB
   Operator, the NASA Chair or a CCB member, or the ODIN or ISEM Chair.
   You can work with items directly from the agenda, accessing the details
   you need for evaluating SRs and setting ECDs. If you update or take
   action on an SR, IWMS notifies all the appropriate people by e-mail.
   Logging On On the IWMS main window: Click Logon. IWMS displays the Log
   On dialog. At User Name, type the user ID you were given for working in
   IWMS. At Password, type the password you were given. To change your
   password, contact your IWMS administrator. Click Continue. IWMS
   displays the command buttons associated with your permissions. CCB
   command button - Displays the CCB agenda for your user permissions.
   This button might be labeled CCB Operator, CCB NASA Chair, CCB Member,
   CCB ODIN Chair or CCB ISEM Chair. Your permissions dictate the actions
   you can take from the agenda. . Log Off - Exits the functions of IWMS
   that are associated with your user permissions. This returns you to the
   main IWMS window. Working with the CCB Agenda After logging on, click
   your CCB button, for example, CCB NASA Chair. Note: If you are the CCB
   Operator, clicking this button displays the names of the current
   Chairs. If desired, you can open the dropdown list for each Chair and
   select a different name. Then clicks Continue to display the agenda.
   IWMS displays the list of SRs that await your action. The SRs are
   grouped by their phase in passing to completion: ORR phase (permission
   to deploy) - this section is not available to the ODIN or ISEM Chairs.
   SRRT phase (permission to develop) Ensure that class 1 SRs all have
   completion dates. They cannot be processed until they do. When dates
   are in place, click Save ECDs. Find the row that contains the SR you
   want to work with. Complete your tasks for that SR: To edit or download
   the SR, click the SR number. A standard browser dialog enables you to
   specify your choice. If you choose to download, a standard Windows
   dialog enables you to specify a path and filename. If you choose to
   edit, you must supply a requested completion date and subtask number if
   they are not already present. To act on an SR, click the appropriate
   icon in the Action column: . . . The list is updated immediately to
   reflect your actions. To set an Estimated Completion Date for the SR,
   type the date in the text box in the ECD column for that SR. When
   finished, click Save ECDs. Working As an SR Manager This chapter
   describes how use IWMS to support your work with SRs that you manage.
   It covers the following tasks: Assigning developers Putting an SR on
   the CCB agenda Notifying the Requestor about an SR event Updating
   support documents Logging a PWS Displaying an In-Depth Review report
   Archiving closed SRs Logging On On the IWMS main window: Click Logon.
   IWMS displays the Log On dialog. At User Name, type the user ID you
   were given for working in IWMS. At Password, type the password you were
   given. To change your password, contact your IWMS administrator. Click
   Continue. IWMS displays the command buttons associated with your
   permissions. Archive - Enables you to move SRs and other documents from
   active IWMS storage to an archive. This removes them from IWMS displays
   other than the archive display. You can also move them back from the
   archive to active storage and display as required. Usually, when an SR
   is closed, it should be archived. In-Depth Review - Displays a report,
   sorted by ISEM Department, showing all the active SRs for each
   Developer. The report always reflects the current status of SRs, and
   you can limit the display to SRs with a specific status. The report is
   useful during the bi-monthly In-Depth Review. My SRs - Enables you to
   work with SRs associated with the Codes for which you are responsible.
   For example, if you were the ICPM for Codes A, F, and K, you would see
   only the active SRs for those Codes. New PWS - Enables you to log a
   problem with a schedule for handling it. When a problem cannot be
   resolved within 72 hours, SR managers generate a Problem with Schedule,
   which is very similar to an SR. . Log Off - Exits the functions of IWMS
   that are associated with your user permissions. This returns you to the
   main IWMS window. Reviewing and Working with Your SRs After logging on,
   click My SRs. IWMS displays your SRs. The display contains only the SRs
   of a single manager. If you display your own SRs, you work with them.
   Adjust the display: At Projects Status, select either your own name or
   that of another manager whose SRs status you want to display. Designate
   which SRs to display by clicking either Active or Archived. Click the
   SR number of the SR you want to work with. IWMS displays the SR details
   window for the SR. At Comment, type any comments you may have about the
   task. Type the path and filename of any of the following descriptive
   files to associate with the SR, or click the Browse button to select
   its path and filename on a standard Windows dialog. The In-Depth File
   The SRRT File. To download a PowerPoint template for an SRRT file,
   click SRRT File. The ORR File Update Event Information for the SR: At
   Event, select the life cycle event that is current. At Date, specify
   the date of the event, using mm/dd/yyyy format. At Status, select the
   current status as a result of that event. At Comment, type a comment
   about the event, if desired. Use SR-Related Functions as appropriate,
   such as: Assigning Developers Notifying the CCB that the SR is ready
   for the agenda Notifying the Requestor about events Updating support
   documents These functions are described in the subsections that follow
   this list. Either click Save to save your changes or click Reset to
   undo them. Assigning Developers Display the SR details: Click Assign
   Developer. IWMS displays a dialog to assist you. To assign someone,
   click their name from the list at Available Developer and then click
   the permission level you want them to have (Task Manager, Read Only, or
   Read/Write). This moves their name to the list at Assigned Developer.
   To remove someone from the assignment, click their name from the list
   at Assigned Developer and then click Unassign. This moves their name to
   the list at Unassigned Developer. When finished, click Close. Putting
   an SR on the CCB Agenda Display the SR details: Complete the Event
   Information section as desired. Click Notify CCB. IWMS displays a
   notification dialog. Select SRRT or ORR as appropriate to the stage of
   completion. Select the appropriate department. Click Continue. IWMS
   informs you as it prepares the e-mail you requested. Notifying the
   Requestor about an SR Event Display the SR details: Click Notify
   Requestor. IWMS displays a dialog where you can specify the event and
   its date. Select the event to announce and type the date of the event.
   Click Notify. Updating Support Documents Display the SR details:
   Complete the SR Support Documents section as necessary. To delete a
   document, click the check box beside it. Then click Remove Marked
   Files. To edit a document, click the name in the Download in the row
   with the document. To update the description, retype it in the
   Description column and then click Rename. To add a new support
   document, complete the fields in the empty row at the end of the table.
   Click Browse to use a Windows dialog to specify the path and filename,
   and then click Upload. Logging a PWS When a problem ticket cannot be
   resolved within the 72-hour (three work day) window, a Problem With
   Schedule SR is initiated. To log a PWS (Problem with Schedule): After
   logging on, click New PWS. IWMS requests your e-mail ID and center.
   Complete the information: In the text box at the top, type your e-mail
   user ID. In the text box under that, select your NASA Center. Note: For
   this release of IWMS, you must select Headquarters as your Center.
   Click Continue. IWMS displays the SR Requestor Information window,
   which shows the data from your record in NASA's X.500 Directory. Verify
   this data. If anything is incorrect, you can make temporary corrections
   here, but notify the POC for your Code to find out how to correct the
   information permanently. When the data is correct, click Continue. IWMS
   displays the Problem with Schedule form. Your personal information has
   been added to the form, along with your Code. You can change the Code.
   Check and complete the fields for the new PWS SR: At Code, verify the
   NASA Code. If different from the one supplied, modify this information.
   At Check One, either NASA or Contractor is checked, based on your
   information in the X.500 Directory. At Descriptive Title of Request,
   type 40 characters or less to help others understand the purpose of the
   SR. At Technical POC who helped define Requirements, if desired,
   provide the name of the ISEM Technical POC who helped define the
   requirements for the SR. At Requirements Definition, type the
   high-level requirements. At Requested Completion Date, enter the date
   you would like the service completed. Use mm/dd/yyyy format. At Task
   Order Number, provide this number if you know it. At Funding
   Information, if you have information, provide it. If not, the Code POC
   or the ICPM for the Code can usually supply it. At Justification,
   supply the reason for the PWS. When finished, click Continue. IWMS
   displays the ticket number for the PWS. Displaying an In-Depth Review
   Report Information displayed in the In-Depth Review report is updated
   automatically as each SR task progresses through its life cycle. This
   information can assist you before a review, and you can use IWMS to
   present the report during an In-Depth Review. To display a report to
   assist you in an in-depth review: After logging on, click In-Depth
   Review. Note: For this release of IWMS, only the SRs of the
   Applications department are available for this report. IWMS displays a
   list of the departments. Click Continue. The report is displayed in its
   default format, which shows the responsibilities of each programmer in
   the departments you selected. The top of the report summarizes the
   number of SRs in each status. Programmer sections are presented
   alphabetically by last name. To customize the report so it shows only
   the SRs in a given status, click the status you want to see. The
   following are available: Total SRs - This is the default report; it
   shows all the SRs for the departments you selected, regardless of
   status. Del Comp - SRs that are delinquent for completion Del Est - SRs
   that are delinquent for their Estimated Completion Date For Est - SRs
   that need to have ECDs established Sched - SRs that are scheduled for
   completion and in-work Suspense - SRs that are suspended Note: The
   status area for each SR is color coded: Green indicates that an SR is
   on schedule Yellow indicates that an SR is in danger of falling behind
   Red indicates that an SR has issues that could suspend work on a task .
   Using the Archiving Facility You can archive SRs that are closed, and
   you can restore SRs from the archives if necessary. Whenever you take
   action on an SR, IWMS notifies all the appropriate people by e-mail. To
   archive or restore an SR: After logging on, click Archive. The Archive
   facility is displayed. It contains two lists: active documents on the
   left, and archived documents on the right. Select the document you want
   to move. Note: The lists are like other lists in Windows: You can
   select a scattered group of items by holding down the Ctrl key while
   you click them. You can select a group of adjacent items by clicking
   the first item and then holding down the Shift key while you click the
   last one. Click the command button to move your selection: To move a
   document from the active list on the left to the archived list on the
   right, click Archive. To move a document from the archive list on the
   right to the active list on the left, click Unarchive. Browsing IWMS
   Any IWMS user can browse through SR-related information from the main
   window of IWMS. It is not necessary to log on to IWMS to browse. You
   can display information in read-only format by doing any of the
   following: Requesting an SR Review agenda or a CCB agenda Running a
   report Searching for an existing SR. (You can add a comment, if
   desired.) After you finish with a display, click the Back button on
   your browser to return to the main IWMS window. Browsing an SR Review
   Agenda Note: This display is the same one that is available for
   decision makers after they log on. To browse SRs that are on the agenda
   for the daily SR Review: In the main window, click Browse SR Review
   Agenda. (This function is also available as a command button if you
   have logged on to work with SRs.) IWMS displays a list of the SRs. Each
   item on the list contains a link to the full SR and another to the
   supporting documents. You can sort the records by clicking the desired
   column heading. Look at the details, if desired: To see an SR, click
   its SR Number. IWMS displays the SR. in the row for the SR. IWMS
   displays a summary and a list of the documents. This view also has
   links that enable you to: Review the requirements. View the full SR by
   clicking View SR. See the messages associated with the SR. Download any
   support documents that are listed, by clicking Download in the row for
   the document. View comments, and add your own if desired, by clicking
   SR Comments. This displays a window similar to the following. Note: If
   you type a comment in the text box, click Save Comment to submit it.
   Browsing a CCB Agenda To browse a CCB agenda for a given week: In the
   main window, click Browse CCB Agenda. (This function is also available
   as a command button if you have logged on to work with SRs.) IWMS
   requests the date of the agenda you want to view. In the text box, type
   the date of the agenda you want to browse and click Continue. IWMS
   displays the requested agenda. To see more information about an SR on
   the agenda, click the SR number. A standard browser dialog enables you
   to specify whether to display or download the PowerPoint presentation
   that describes the SR. If you choose to download, a standard Windows
   dialog enables you to specify a path and filename. Running a Report To
   run a report: In the main window, click Run Reports. IWMS displays the
   Report Specification form. It contains links to standard report types,
   some of which have text boxes or dropdown for customizing the report
   output. Scroll if necessary to find the type of report you want. If
   desired, customize your report by typing a date in its text box or
   selecting a value from its dropdown list. For example, report #4 could
   be limited to a range of dates, and report #7 could be limited to the
   SRs of a specific requestor or a specific ISEM CPM. Click the report
   name to display the report. The following is an example of the layout
   of a report. Note: If you decide to print a report, set up your printer
   to print landscape so that you include the full width of the report.
   Searching for an Existing Service Request To view an existing SR: In
   the main window, click Search for existing Service Requests. . (This
   function is also available as a command button if you have logged on to
   work with SRs.) IWMS displays the Search Criteria form. At Requestor
   Last Name, type the last name of the requestor. At Requestor First
   Name, type the first name of the requestor. Supply values in any of the
   optional fields to narrow your search criteria: At NASA Code, type the
   code associated with the SR. At SR Year, select the year of the SR from
   the dropdown list. At SR Number, supply the number, specifying only the
   seven digits that follow the 4-digit year. For example, to retrieve SR
   2000-01234567, specify 01234567. At SR Manager, select a name from the
   dropdown list. At SR Contract, select a contract from the dropdown
   list. At SR Status, select the status from the dropdown list. At
   Department Assigned, select the department associated with the SR from
   the dropdown list. At Date Assigned, specify a beginning date and an
   end date to describe the period when the SR was assigned. Click Search.
   IWMS displays your search results. Note: If your search retrieves
   multiple SRs, IWMS displays a list of those SRs. If this happens, click
   the SR number of the one you want, or use the fields below the list to
   further refine your search criteria. The IT Service Request form is
   displayed. It is longer than shown here, but you can scroll it.
   Appendix. IWMS Processing SR Work Flow The following depicts SR work
   flow within IWMS. IWMS Processing Flow The following pages illustrate
   the flow of IWMS processing.
