http://tapestry.wr.usgs.gov/credits.html

   Link to USGS home page

   A Tapestry of Time and Terrain:
   The Union of Two Maps - Geology and Topography
   Tapestry Main Page
   top bar


Who we are

   Joe Vigil Joe Vigil - Multimedia/Motion Graphics Specialist for the
   Western Publication Group. Brief History: U.S. Air Force (Honorable
   Discharge), City College of San Francisco (Advertising Art & Design),
   San Francisco State University (BA : Creative Arts, Interdisciplinary
   Studies), Computer Learning Center of San Francisco. With USGS from
   1980 to present.Projects completed for the USGS include, The National
   Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, The San Andreas Fault System-California,
   The Future of Energy Gases, Wrestling with Uncertainty, Perilous Beauty
   - The Hidden Dangers of Mount Rainier, Secrets in Stone, AT RISK:
   Volcano Hazards from Mount Hood, Oregon, crossection for The Dynamic
   Planet, and A Tapestry of Time and Terrain.
   David Howell David G. Howell - Received B.A. from Colgate University
   and a Ph.D. from Univ. California, Santa Barbara. Since joining the
   Survey in 1974 his research has involved concepts for the growth and
   shaping of continents, world-wide distribution of oil and gas ,
   societal impact of landslides and currently is organizing an
   international summit - "Crowding the Rim" - an alliance with the U.S.
   Geological Survey, the American Red Cross, Stanford University and the
   Circum Pacific Council. As a geologist he studies the composition, ages
   and processes that form the underpinnings of the Earth's surface, as an
   artist he strives to capture and record the beauty and essence of these
   same features.
   Richard Pike Dick Pike - Works with GIS specialists to understand the
   Bay Region's slope-failure hazard through statistical relations among
   geology, topography, and landslides. He has contributed to such Team
   products as the 1997 El Nino Landslide Folio and the 1998 GSAToday
   article, and currently is supervising the compilation of a digital
   10-county landslide database. Dick consults on all aspects of
   surface-form quantification and visualization, including DEM (digital
   elevation model) quality and shaded-relief mapping. He maintains a
   unique bibliography, now at 4300 entries, on terrain modeling. Earlier
   in his USGS career, Dick used spacecraft-image data to measure the
   Moon's surface roughness and study impact craters on the terrestrial
   planets.
   Eleanore Jewel Eleanore Jewel - Eleanore was webmaster, designer, and
   author for this site, while an intern with the U.S. Geological Survey.
   She created web content for various projects, including the National
   Atlas. She received her undergraduate training in geology at Bowling
   Green State University, and has also completed some graduate-level
   geophysics studies. Eleanore has completed her internship with the U.S.
   Geological Survey; recent reports of sightings are from as far afield
   as Antarctica.
   Naomi Kalman Naomi Kalman -
   Education: B.S. - Geology - U. C. Davis - 1999
   Project Research: Naomi is a former member of the Landslide Hazards
   Team. Under the direction of Richard Pike, she developed and edited
   geologic map databases in ARC/INFO, and performed miscellaneous tasks
   related to presentation and publication of data. She worked on a
   landslide inventory map of Contra Costa County for eventual release as
   a USGS Open-File report. She took a break from the GIS stuff to work on
   the Tapestry webpage. She has completed her internship.

   bottom bar

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   Contact: Administrator
   Last Modification: 8 May, 2001 (keb)
   USGS Privacy Policy
