http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/strategic/single_multiple.htm

    The NIDCD conducts and supports research and disseminates information
   on disorders of human communication, including hearing, balance, smell,
   taste, voice, speech, and language.

   [space.gif]
     * National Strategic Research Plan
     * Research Training/Career Development Report
     * Single and Multiple Project Grants Report
     * Peer Review Report

   Search this site
   _________ Go!
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   Strategic Planning
   Work Group on Single and Multiple Project Grants Report

   I.   Background

   The Work Group on Single and Multiple Project Grants (WGSMPG) was
   formed to provide advice to the National Deafness and Other
   Communication Disorders Advisory Council and to the NIDCD Director.
   Their charge was to consider the benefits and drawbacks of single
   project (R01) grants in contrast to multiple project (P01, P50, P60)
   grants, and to explore the possible value of adding Core Grants (P30)
   to the extramural research activities supported by the NIDCD.
   Additionally, the Work Group was asked to provide an in-depth
   examination of the rationale for the nurture, development and
   continuing support of multiple project grants.
     * WGSMPG Letter of Invitation
     * WGSMPG Notice
     * WGSMPG Description
     * WGSMPG Roster

   Questions suggested for discussion included the following:

    1. Should there be a recognizable need for collaboration which
       underlies the development of a multiple project application? Under
       which circumstances are multiple project awards most useful?

    a. to stimulate new research areas/paradigms
    b. to foster clinical research or a mixture of translational and
       clinical research
    c. to attract new disciplinary approaches
    d. to nurture/enhance collaboration
    e. to provide other research benefits
    f. to enhance research training and career development

     Assuming that a demonstrated need for collaboration among
   individuals, not presently interacting, is a fundamental component of
   multiple project grants, does it follow that certain research areas of
   the NIDCD will need more, or fewer, multiple project awards?

     Is it reasonable to suggest that publications arising from multiple
   project grants will reflect broader, more comprehensive research
   activities?

     When collaborations arising from a multiple project grant prove
   fruitful, is it possible (desirable?) to subsequently continue such
   research on one or more R01s?

     If many, or most collaborations arising from a multiple project grant
   are continued on as separate single project awards, is it reasonable to
   expect that some, or many multiple project grants on a particular theme
   would have a finite life span, for example, 5-10 years? 10/27/98

     In cases where the transition from a single multiple project to
   multiple single projects occurs, is it likely that critical resources
   will be lost? Would there be a benefit to offering core grant (P30)
   support to further enhance these collaborative efforts? Might this
   approach also be of value to groups of activities which have arisen
   apart from multiple project awards?

     With regard to the critical problem of assuring a continuous infusion
   of new investigators into science, is there relevance to the
   single/multiple project discussion? For example:

    a. Do multiple project awards provide "shelter" for people beyond
       postdoctoral training that is different (better) than that which
       might be obtained as a key (not principal) investigator on a
       traditional individual research project (R01)?
    b. Conversely, in the current multiple project grant, are there
       disincentives or delays to encouraging independence among younger
       investigators?

   Suggestions and guidance from the scientific community were requested.
   The NIDCD placed the charge to the Work Group and the questions listed
   above on its Home Page. The American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and
   Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS), Association of Chemoreception Sciences
   (AChemS), Association for Research in Otolaryngology (ARO), and the
   American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) communicated
   electronically with their members.

   In addition, the principal investigators of all multiple project grants
   (P01, P50, P60) active in 1997 were solicited individually for their
   evaluation of those 39 grants. They were asked to respond to the
   following questions:

    1. Has your "P" grant been greater than the sum of the subprojects?
       That is, has there been a positive synergistic effect on
       collaboration directly linked to this administrative framework?
       Please provide specific examples.
    2. What are the main goals of the "P" grant, and to what extent are
       they being accomplished?
    3. Describe the purpose of each core and its importance to the
       research activity.
    4. Why do you believe the research is better served by the "P"
       activity? If part of your response rests on drawing together
       persons of varied research backgrounds, please list the disciplines
       represented on your grant.
    5. Please provide two lists of bibliographic references arising from
       your "P" grant subgrouped as:

    a. Examples of the most significant papers
    b. Papers co-authored by two or more subproject leaders

   The WGSMPG met three times. The first two meetings were by
   teleconference call on May 22, 1998 and June 30, 1998. The third
   meeting took place in Bethesda on August 13-14, 1998.

   II.    Summary of Input from the Scientific Community

   Almost all Principal Investigators of multiple project grants ("Ps")
   active in 1997 responded to the letter requesting an evaluation of
   their grant. They were uniformly positive about the "P" mechanism. They
   cited advantages of synergy and collaboration, particularly between
   basic and clinical scientists; availability and efficiency of shared
   infrastructure resources; flexibility in supporting junior
   investigators; and visibility in the university and the community. The
   key concrete element that supported these advantages involved the
   shared core facilities. In clinical research, shared patient
   populations often played a key role. A second component that fostered
   interactions on some, but not all "P" awards, was the process of
   working together in preparing an application and the resulting critical
   scientific input from all those involved.

   Input from the general community had a different emphasis, with certain
   uniform elements. They considered the R01 to be the gold standard for
   research. Many felt that multiple project grants have some merits, but
   questioned whether its stronger parts carry along weaker projects.
   There was also concern that multiple project grants disproportionately
   favor a subset of scientists. The different review processes for "R"
   and "P" grant applications was a major concern. Two of the respondents
   had extensive experience with both, and they were emphatic about the
   disparity between the two review processes. One of them strongly
   recommended changes to review and funding guidelines, the other
   recommended abolition of most multiple project grants and
   implementation of a Core Grant (P30) program within NIDCD.

   From the testimony given to them, plus their own experiences as
   scientists, grantees (R01, R29, P01, P50 and P60), and reviewers
   [within the NIDCD as well as the Center for Scientific Review (CSR) or
   its predecessor, the Division of Research Grants (DRG)], the members of
   the WGSMPG identified several important principles as the foundation
   for their recommendations:

    1. Collaboration among scientists is increasingly important and should
       be fostered on individual research grants (traditional R01s),
       between or among R01 grantees, as well as on multiple project
       grants.
    2. Whenever possible, the extramural research activities of the
       Institute should be based on R01 grants.
    3. The resources provided to centers to enhance collaboration should
       be made available to a broader segment of the extramural scientific
       community.
    4. Issues of fairness in review between that which is NIDCD-based and
       that which is CSR-based should be identified and resolved.

   III.    Multiple Project Center Grants (P50)

   The WGSMPG recommends that NIDCD adopt a more limited type of multiple
   project research activity based on the following:

    1. Essential Criteria for Multiple Project Center Grant Applications

    a. Projects must be interdependent, interrelated, and
       multidisciplinary; there must be a unifying theme; and
    b. The feasibility of the research proposed on any project would be
       significantly diminished if that project were submitted as a
       traditional individual research grant (R01) application.

     Description and Definitions

   Each multiple project grant must have a well-defined central unifying
   theme with three or more subprojects and supporting cores as
   appropriate. The program will be led by a principal investigator who
   has the authority and responsibility to manage the overall scientific
   effort and the budget. The program must be multidisciplinary,
   consisting of interdependent, interrelated subprojects that are
   inappropriate for funding by other mechanisms. Multidisciplinary is
   defined as subproject leaders and/or projects representing different
   scientific backgrounds, training and expertise. This feature alone does
   not constitute a rationale for the use of a multiple project grant,
   since many individual investigator-initiated research grants (R01s) are
   multidisciplinary in nature. Frequent, extensive and committed
   interactions between the disciplines must be evident. Interdependent
   means that materials, results, data or methodologies are shared among
   the projects. Results of one project may depend on results from the
   other projects for interpretation and understanding. This
   interdependence would preclude successful submission as an individual
   project (R01) application. Interrelated means that each project must
   have goals and objectives that focus on the common theme.

     Examples: One example for such a multiple project grant would be a
   group of projects focused around a clinical study. Each project would
   require clinical data, clinical specimens and/or other related
   materials derived from a cohort of patients with a disorder of hearing,
   balance, voice, speech, language, smell or taste. Another example would
   be studies focused on a common experimental model or animal cohort that
   meet the same interdependence requirements. Core support must be
   justified as providing essential resources to the subprojects.

     Letter of Intent

   Prospective multiple project grant applicants must write a letter of
   intent to the appropriate program health scientist administrator (HSA)
   within NIDCD prior to submitting a formal application. The HSA, in
   consultation with others, will evaluate the appropriateness of the
   proposed application based on answers to the following questions:

    a. Is the theme of the application appropriate to the programmatic
       mission of the NIDCD?
    b. Explain specifically why the intended activity could not be
       accomplished as a series of R01 grants with core support.
    c. Characterize the disciplines to be represented in this
       multidisciplinary application. Describe the types of scientific
       interactions that are envisioned and indicate how they meet the
       criteria (listed above) for multiple project grants.
    d. What are the qualifications and leadership experience of the
       principal investigator?

   Following an evaluation by NIDCD staff, the prospective applicant will
   be advised whether or not to proceed with the multiple project
   application, and if not, which other research grant mechanisms may be
   more appropriate.

   IV.    Core Grants (P30)

   In addition to the Multiple Project Center Grant, the WGSMPG recommends
   that the NIDCD initiate a Core Grant Program similar to that utilized
   by other NIH institutes. Most WGSMPG members felt there would be value
   in designating P30s as centers. [These two activities together would
   then constitute the centers program of the NIDCD and should, if
   possible, be separated from the Research Project Grant (RPG) budget
   category.]

   The overall goal of the Core Grant Program is envisioned to support and
   facilitate research and collaborative interactions between or among
   independently-funded investigators who are working on a common theme
   relevant to the mission of the NIDCD. The sharing of core resources and
   services with other NIH-funded investigators is encouraged so as to
   bring advanced technology, cutting-edge instrumentation facilities and
   unusual animal and family pedigrees to bear on communications research.

   Core Grants are subdivided into discrete units or modules, with each
   devoted to a specific activity that would be impractical or less
   efficient to support on an individual research project grant. Modules
   are based on function:

   Resources Modules
          Examples: Electron microscopy, Image analysis, Biostatistics,
          Tissue culture, Laboratory animal resources

   Service Modules
          Examples: Mechanical, Electronics, Photography, Continuing
          education, Information dissemination

   The WGSMPG requests that NIDCD staff formulate specific policy and
   review criteria for the Core Grant Program. Their considerations should
   include a determination of the minimum number of NIDCD funded
   (individual) research projects required to be eligible for a P30 grant.
   Further, the WGSMPG strongly emphasized the desirability of attracting
   non-NIDCD grantees to these cores as a means to promote new and broader
   research directions.

   The WGSMPG examined the language in the legislation establishing the
   NIDCD which mandated the creation of multipurpose centers, a function
   which is presently funded as a P60 activity. These centers (presently
   five in number) must support research, training, continuing education
   and information dissemination. The legislation allows for renewal of
   support at regular intervals if recommended to the NIDCD Director after
   appropriate peer review.

   With regard to current P60 (as well as current P50 and current P01
   grants), the Work Group indicated that, if the research components are
   to be considered as part of a competing multiple project application,
   they should be required to meet the same review criteria and review
   processes outlined in III (1) above. Further, the WGSMPG recognizes the
   importance of continuing education and information dissemination, but
   most members questioned the need to carry out such activities as part
   of a comprehensive multipurpose center. It was recommended that an
   alternative funding mechanism for the continuing education and
   information dissemination of P60 activities be explored. For example,
   if a grantee institution with strong interests and experience or
   potential for continuing education and/or information dissemination
   could demonstrate need beyond that obtainable at the local level, such
   activities might be proposed as a module in a Core Grant application.

   V.    Investigator-Initiated Interactive Research Project Grants (R01)

   The WGSMPG examined the NIH Interactive Research Project Grant (IRPG)
   program and recommends that NIDCD be included as a participant. This
   program provides support for formal investigator-initiated
   collaborative relationships.

   An IRPG group consists of the coordinated submission of two or more
   applications for related traditional research project grants (R01) on
   related topics, with a formalized agreement to collaborate in specific
   ways to enhance the achievement of the goals on all projects. The IRPG,
   therefore, offers a means of promoting limited collaborative efforts
   between or among projects that are scientifically related, while
   providing a record of independently obtained awards and retaining the
   research autonomy of each principal investigator (PI). Other benefits
   of the IRPG program include the establishment of collaborations on an
   equal footing at separate sites (including foreign locations) and the
   possibility of transferring an award with the PI to another institution
   without disrupting the IRPG group.

   The WGSMPG is aware that the IRPG program has not been widely used by
   the institutes currently participating in this program. The chief
   difficulty has centered around the likelihood that certain R01
   applications from an IRPG group may be reviewed in different study
   sections in the CSR. While preserving the desirable feature of having
   the R01 application reviewed by the most appropriate study section, the
   assessment of resource needs may be hampered by the limited information
   available regarding the scientific merit of the other R01 applications
   in the IRPG group. Nevertheless, because of this program's potential to
   enhance collaboration while maintaining a fair review process, the
   WGSMPG believes that support for this activity is warranted at this
   time. [The WGSMPG has also recommended an enhanced review procedure
   (See VI. (3) below) that should improve the assessment of resource
   needs for IRPGs.]

   VI.    Initial (Peer) Review

   A major focus for the WGSMPG involved the examination of additional
   means by which to better ensure that more research grant applications
   would be subjected to the same initial review (scientific merit)
   process. Achieving this goal would create a single and fairer playing
   field for investigators, with the vast majority of reviews being
   handled by study sections in the CSR. At the same time the WGSMPG
   realized that exceptions for which an Institute based review is
   essential exists for a limited number of research activities. With this
   in mind the Work Group recommended the following:

    1.  Multiple Project Center Grants (P50)
       The following steps are recommended as a requirement prior to the
       review of a multiple project grant application:

    a. Pre-application discussion with staff;
    b. Letter of intent and,
    c. Response by relevant staff regarding suitability of the mechanism
       and responsiveness to minimum requirements for inclusion in the
       program.

   Multiple project grant applications should continue to be reviewed
   within the NIDCD. The Communication Disorders Review Committee (CDRC)
   membership should be adjusted to reflect the expertise most needed for
   what is anticipated to be a more focused set of review activities. In
   addition, this standing committee should be augmented appropriately
   with experienced ad hoc members. It may be desirable to review as many
   applications as possible at the same meeting. When that is not
   feasible, there should be substantial overlap of reviewers between or
   among the initial review meetings.

   Each subproject will be reviewed using the five initial review criteria
   of significance, approach, innovation, investigator and environment. It
   is important that each subproject be assigned a score on the basis of
   these review criteria. The entire program should then be assigned an
   overall score based on the scores of individual projects and the degree
   to which they are responsive to the new criteria for multiple project
   grants. Any program in which one or more subprojects receives a poor
   review would be penalized in its overall score.

      Core Grants (P30)

   The WGSMPG recommends that NIDCD staff formulate specific review
   criteria and review mechanisms and standards for P30 applications using
   those established by the National Eye Institute and other NIH
   institutes as guidelines. The CDRC membership should also reflect the
   expertise needed to carry out the review of these Core Grants. Further,
   it is recommended that each module be separately evaluated and rated
   with regard to the way in which it will facilitate the research effort
   of the participating investigators.

      IRPG (R01)

   As indicated earlier in this report (See Section V above), the WGSMPG
   embraces this program for its potential to enhance collaboration while
   retaining the benefit of having the individual projects (R01) reviewed
   in relevant CSR study sections.

   The WGSMPG recommends that when two or more R01 applications from an
   IRPG group application are of sufficient technical merit to warrant
   funding, that the NIDCD develop a rapid review capability to determine
   the additional resources, if any, that would be required to optimize
   performance for those collaborating grantees.

   VII.   Conclusions

   The WGSMPG recommendations in this report should serve to: 1) enhance
   opportunities for collaboration among extramural investigators, whether
   their principal research activity is derived from a single project or
   multiple project award, 2) increase opportunities for more extramural
   scientists to become independent investigators and 3) provide a more
   equitable initial review path for those research activities that are
   supported independently as R01s with, or without, additional resources
   provided through Core Grant or IRPG support.

   The successful implementation of these recommendations will require
   close interactions between the principal investigators of the currently
   funded P01, P50 and P60 grants and NIDCD staff responsible for program,
   review and grants management functions. It is anticipated that most, if
   not all, of these grants will have certain ongoing activities that do
   not meet the new criteria for multiple project grants. The NIDCD should
   develop guidelines for phasing in these new criteria. This needs to
   include a transition period during which time current grantees are able
   to consider, and act on appropriate alternatives.

   Please direct comments to the WGSMPG Executive Secretary:

     Dr. Craig Jordan
     Division of Extramural Activities, NIDCD
     6120 Executive Boulevard, Suite 400C
     Bethesda, MD 20892-1780
     Telephone: (301) 496-8693
     Fax: (301) 402-6250
     E-mail: jordanc@nidcd.nih.gov

   Health Information |  Strategic Planning |  Research Funding |
   Intramural Research |  News & Events |  About NIDCD |
   FAQs |  Site Index |  Search |  Contact Us |  Home
   [dots.gif]
   Text-only version
   Web Privacy Policy
   Site Information
   top
   [space.gif]
   National Institute on Deafness and
   Other Communication Disorders
   National Institutes of Health
   31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
   Bethesda, MD USA 20892-2320
