http://www.mrmib.ca.gov/MRMIB/MRMIP/MRMIPApp.pdf

   Checklist for Program Enrollment Please use the following checklist to
   ensure better processing of your application: J Review the brochure to
   learn about eligibility for the California Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program (MRMIP) and to choose your health plan before completing the
   Enrollment Application. J Complete the Enrollment Application on pages
   27-30 of this brochure. All questions must be answered in full. The
   entire application may be returned to you if you do not complete
   sections of the application. This may result in a delay of processing.
   J Sign and date the completed Enrollment Application on page 30. J
   Attach the following items (your entire application may be returned to
   you if you do not provide the following): J Your supporting
   documentation that indicates your eligibility for MRMIP. (Page 2 of
   this brochure describes how eligibility can be demonstrated.) J A check
   for one month's subscriber contribution for your chosen health plan.
   Make check payable to California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program.
   (Monthly subscriber contribution rates are listed on pages 20-25 of
   this brochure). Payments that do not equal the exact amount that is due
   may delay the processing of your application. J Proof of Qualifying
   Prior Coverage, if applicable to you, to waive all or part of your
   Exclusion/Waiting Period must be received prior to or with your first
   month's subscriber contribution for credit to be given. (Please see
   page 4 of this brochure for more information.) J Insurance Agents: You
   must complete all boxes at the bottom of page 27 of the Enrollment
   Application. J Mail the completed Enrollment Application with your
   check and all necessary attachments to: California Major Risk Medical
   Insurance Program P.O. Box 9044 Oxnard, CA 93031-9044 26 MRMIP
   Enrollment Unit (800) 289-6574 California Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program Enrollment Application Instructions: Thank you for applying
   with California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program. Please follow
   these instructions to allow us to better process your application. *
   Read the brochure to learn about eligibility and to choose your health
   plan before completing this application. * You, the
   applicant/parent/legal guardian must complete this application. You are
   solely responsible for its accuracy and completeness. * All questions
   must be answered in full. The entire application may be returned to you
   if you do not provide all necessary information (including the required
   supporting documentation, signatures, and payments). This may result in
   a delay in processing. * This application must be received by MRMIP
   within 30 days from the signature date. * Even if this application is
   approved, any misstatements or omissions may result in future claims
   being denied and the policy being rescinded. Attach check to page 28
   where indicated. Please submit one month's subscriber contribution for
   your chosen health plan. Regardless of which plan you choose, make your
   check payable to California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program. If
   your application is approved, your payment will be forwarded to the
   health plan you have selected. Submit check, application and all
   necessary documentation to: California Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program P.O. Box 9044 Oxnard, CA 93031-9044 INSURANCE AGENT: If you
   assisted your client in completing this application, please complete
   this section. Complete all boxes  this will not be paid unless
   complete. Information missing cannot be submitted at a later date.
   (Please see note to Agents on page 3 of the brochure.) Use blue or
   black ink only. Agent Name CA Agent/Broker License No. Tax I.D.
   No:/Soc. Sec. No. Street Address I understand that no Agent payment
   will be made unless and until this applicant is enrolled in the
   Program. City State Zip Phone No. FAX No: (if available) Signature
   12/01 27 1. Check One: New Enrollment Add Dependents Use blue or black
   ink only. 2. Choice of Health Plan: (Remember : Regardless of your
   choice of health plan, make check payable to California Major Risk
   Medical Insurance Program.) Health Plan Name Name of Primary Care
   Physician (for Blue Shield HMO only) (If parent or legal guardian is
   completing this application for 3. Applicant Information: Applicant
   must complete this section. the applicant, please mark this box. ) Last
   Name Applicant First Name M.I. Social Security Number Age Birthdate 10
   Male Mo Day Yr 20 Female Check 1 Single 3 Widowed Home Phone County One
   2 Married 4 Divorced ( ) Street Address (must be completed; P.O. Box
   not acceptable) Suite or Unit # City State Zip Billing Name, if
   different Billing Street Address City State Zip Employer Occupation
   Business Phone ( ) Employer Street Address City State Zip 4.
   Race/Ethnicity (Optional): Check box which best applies. Hispanic Asian
   Pacific Islander 10 Aleut 21 Cuban 41 Asian Indian 61 Filipino 11
   American Indian, Native American 22 Mexican, Mexican-American, 42
   Cambodian 62 Guamanian Chicano 12 Black/African American 43 Chinese 63
   Samoan 23 Puerto Rican 13 Eskimo 44 Japanese 92 Other; please specify:
   Other not listed; please specify: 14 White 45 Korean 99 46 Laotian 47
   Vietnamese STAPLE CHECK HERE 94 Other; please specify: payable to
   California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program 5. Family Information:
   List all additional family members to be enrolled. Last Name First Name
   M.I. Social Security Number Age Birthdate 30 Husband Mo Day Yr 40 Wife
   50 Son Marital Status 70 Daughter S M 51 Son Marital Status 71 Daughter
   S M 52 Son Marital Status 72 Daughter S M 53 Son Marital Status 73
   Daughter S M 54 Son Marital Status 74 Daughter S M Is any dependent
   child over 23 years of age? Yes No If yes, send with this application
   doctors records showing that the dependent child cannot work for a
   living because of a physical or mental disability which existed before
   becoming 23 years old. Is this dependent child covered by Medicare? Yes
   No 12/01 28 6. Program Eligibility: To be eligible for the program you
   must answer "yes" to one of the first four questions. Provide a copy of
   any letter or formal written communication from a health plan
   documenting all "yes" answers. Yes No Enroller Use Only 1. Within the
   past 12 months, have you been denied individual health insurance? 2.
   Within the past 12 months, have you been involuntarily terminated from
   health insurance coverage for reasons other than fraud or non-payment
   of premium? 3. Within the past 12 months, have you been offered an
   individual premium higher than the rate for the first choice health
   plan listed on this application? 4. Are you currently ineligible, but
   anticipate becoming eligible, and want to apply for a deferred
   enrollment? (See Section 8B.) 5. Have you and your dependent(s), if
   any, met the requirements to waive all or part of the exclusion/waiting
   period? (See page 4 under "How You May Waive All or Part of the
   Exclusion/Waiting Period.'') 6. Within the past 12 months, were you
   covered in a similar high risk pool sponsored by another state before
   becoming a California resident? 7. Declarations: Please read each of
   the following statements carefully and initial each statement. Any
   untrue or inaccurate responses may be reason for loss of enrollment or
   application of other sanctions. Initials 1. I declare that no
   individual listed on this application is eligible for both Part A
   (hospital) and Part B (professional) of Medicare. If you are eligible
   solely because of end-stage renal disease, leave blank and provide
   Medicare eligibility letter as proof of end-stage renal disease.
   (Medicare is a federal program that provides health services to older
   Americans and disabled persons.) 2. I declare that all individuals
   listed on this application are residents of the state of California.
   (See page 2 under "Eligibility" for the definition of California
   resident.) 3. I declare that I am not currently eligible to purchase
   any health insurance for continuation of benefits from my employer
   under the provisions of 29 U.S. Code 1161 (COBRA), or under the
   provisions of Insurance Code Sections 10128.50 and Health and Safety
   Code Sections 156.20 (Cal-COBRA). These are the laws which allow people
   to buy into their employer's health insurance for at least 18 months
   after they leave their employer. (If you are currently on COBRA, leave
   blank and read 8B below.) 4. I declare that all individuals listed on
   this application will abide by the rules of participation, the
   utilization review process and the dispute resolution process of the
   participating health plan in which the individual is enrolled. A
   dispute resolution process may include binding arbitration rather than
   a court trial to resolve any claim, including a claim for malpractice,
   asserted by me, my enrolled dependents, heirs, personal
   representatives, or someone with a relationship to us, against the
   participating health plan, or against the employees, partners, or
   agents, of the participating health plan. 5. I declare that I have
   reviewed the benefits offered by the MRMIP and the contribution rate.
   6. I declare that no individual listed on this application was excluded
   from group health coverage solely for the purpose of being made
   eligible for the MRMIP. 7. I declare that I understand and will follow
   the rules and regulations of the MRMIP. I understand that negotiating a
   subscriber contribution check shall not constitute acceptance on the
   part of the MRMIP, or any of its subcontractors, if the application is
   not approved or if the member has already been disenrolled for
   nonpayment of subscriber contribution, fails to meet program
   eligibility requirements, commits program fraud, or because the
   dependent ceases to be a dependent, upon request by the member, or for
   any other reason. 8. Effective Date: Enroller Use Only A. If this
   application is approved, the effective date of coverage will be
   determined according to applicable law and regulation and you will be
   informed in writing of the date. Do not drop any current coverage until
   you hear from us. B. If you are not now eligible, but anticipate
   eligibility, you may apply for a deferred enrollment. To do so you must
   include acceptable documentation (e.g., a letter from an insurance
   company or employer indicating coverage termination). The documentation
   must be specific as to the date of termination of current coverage
   12/01 29 9. Authorization and Conditions of Enrollment Required by the
   Confidentiality of Medical Information Act of 1/1/80, Sect 56 et.seq of
   the California Civil Code for all applicants of 18 years and over. I
   authorize any insurance company, physician, hospital, clinic or health
   care provider to give Major Risk Medical Insurance Program
   Administrator any and all records pertaining to any medical history,
   services or treatment provided to anyone listed on this application for
   purpose of review, investigation or evaluation. This authorization
   becomes immediately effective and shall remain in effect as long as
   Administrator requires. A photocopy of this Authorization is as valid
   as the original. Privacy Notification The Information Practices Act of
   1977 and the Federal Privacy Act require this Program to provide the
   following to individuals who are asked by the Major Risk Medical
   Insurance Program (established by Part 6.5 of Division 2 of the
   Insurance Code) to supply information: The principal purpose for
   requesting personal and medical information is for subscriber
   identification and program administration. Program regulations (Chapter
   5.5 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations, Sections
   2698.100 et.seq.) require every individual to furnish appropriate
   information for application to the Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program. Failure to furnish this information may result in the return
   of the application as incomplete. The following information on the
   application is voluntary: social security number, race/ethnicity
   information and health history. Personal information provided on this
   form will not be furnished to any other governmental agency. An
   individual has a right of access to records containing his/her personal
   information that are maintained by the Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program. The official responsible for maintaining the information is:
   Deputy Director, Eligibility, Compliance and Marketing, Managed Risk
   Medical Insurance Board, PO Box 2769, Sacramento, CA 95812-2769. The
   Board may charge a small fee to cover the cost of duplicating this
   information. I understand that this is a state program and my rights
   and obligations under it will be determined under Part 6.5 Division 2
   of the California Insurance Code and at the regulation of Title 10,
   Chapter 5.5. If you enroll in certain plans you agree to have certain
   claims (which may include medical malpractice claims) decided by
   neutral binding arbitration. Members give up their right to a jury or
   court trial. Page 6 has information about each plan and the arbitration
   requirements. You may call the plan you choose to find out more. I
   understand that this contract may have waiting periods for pre-existing
   conditions. I, the applicant, certify that the information provided on
   this application is true and correct. X X Signature of Applicant/Parent
   or Legal Guardian Required Date Signature of Applicant's Spouse
   Required Date (If listed on this application) X X Signature of
   Applicant's Dependent Age 18 or over Required Date Signature of
   Applicant's Dependent Age 18 or over Required Date (If listed on this
   application) (If listed on this application) After filling out the
   application, signing and securing all necessary documentation, submit
   with a check for one month's subscriber contribution for your chosen
   health plan. Make your check payable to California Major Risk Medical
   Insurance Program and mail to: California Major Risk Medical Insurance
   Program P.O. Box 9044 Oxnard, CA 93031-9044 12/01 30
