http://www.linder.house.gov/stateofunion.htm

             [John Linder, Serving the 11th District of Georgia]
             [tip of Georgia]

          Press Release

          For Immediate Release
          January 29, 2002     Contact: Ginny Hudson
                               (202) 225-4272


          Linder Applauds President’s Resolve in State of the Union


   WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman John Linder (R-Georgia) made the
   following statement this evening in response to President Bush’s State
   of the Union address:

   Only four months ago, President Bush summoned a joint session of
   Congress to tell us—and the rest of the world—that our fight against
   terrorism had just begun. He has made another powerful speech tonight
   reaffirming our resolve to defeat this great evil of our time.

   While there has been a broad and bipartisan commitment to winning the
   war on terrorism, the President wants to bring that same focus and
   bipartisanship to work to address America’s needs here at home,
   especially the economy. The aftermath of September 11, 2001, caused
   hundreds of thousands of American workers to lose their jobs, go into
   debt, and reexamine their financial future. However, some Members of
   Congress have threatened to repeal the tax cuts that Congress passed
   last year to help Americans through the recession. That would do
   nothing to help the economy; it certainly would not help American
   families. Tonight President Bush insisted that we not waiver in our
   commitment to let the American people keep more of their hard-earned
   money.

   The President deserves a lot of credit for being able to bring both
   political parties to the table and work to overcome some of the most
   difficult challenges in the history of our nation. His ability to work
   well with so many different groups of people was one of his greatest
   strengths during his campaign, and tonight he has shown once again that
   he sincerely wants to change the tone in Washington and get things done
   for the American people.  I am confident that with his leadership we
   will not only overcome our present differences in economic policy, but
   we will also defeat terrorism and secure the future of America as the
   beacon of freedom throughout the world.

                                   #  #  #
