http://www.umesc.usgs.gov/mrrc.html




              Spring Flood 2001, La Crosse, WI. Photo by USGS.

   Mississippi River Research Consortium Summer Drawdown 2001, La Crosse,
   WI. Photo by USGS.

      2002 Annual Meeting...April 25th & 26th at the Radisson Hotel, La
                                 Crosse, WI

                                 o-line.gif

                             Purpose and Mission

          Welcome to the Mississippi River Research Consortium (MRRC)
     homepage.  MRRC is a private, non-profit organization supported by
     its members and by cooperating agencies, institutions, and
     corporations. Membership is open to all interested parties.  MRRC
     members are scientists, river managers, teachers, students, and
     individuals from private business and the general public who want to
     encourage both pure and applied research on the water and land
     resources of the Mississippi River and its watershed.
          Other purposes of the organization include supporting organized
     research effort on the Mississippi River, establishing and
     encouraging communication among river scientists, the wider
     scientific community, and the public, encouraging cooperation among
     institutions (sharing of facilities,etc.), functioning as an
     advisory group, and providing an annual meeting where research
     results can be presented, common problems can be discussed,
     information can be disseminated, and river researchers can become
     acquainted with one another.
          A Proceedings of the annual meeting containing abstracts of
     presentations are published each year.  The annual meeting usually
     occurs in La Crosse, Wisconsin, on Thursday and Friday of the third
     or fourth week in April.
     A Call for Papers is issued in November and registration materials
     and a meeting program are distributed in March.  Questions can be
     addressed to any one of the four officers on the Board.

                                 o-line.gif

                              Table of Contents

   oball.gif 2001 Annual Meeting Program

   oball.gif Photos from 2001 Meeting

   oball.gif Friend of the River Award 2001

   oball.gif Abstracts from 1997-2001 Search by Key Word
   oball.gif Call for Papers...2002

   oball.gif Supporting Agencies and People

   oball.gif Photos from 2000 Meeting

   oball.gif Other Mississippi River Web sites

                                 o-line.gif

                        2001-2002 Board of Directors

   [knights.jpg] President
   Brent Knights
   U.S. Geological Survey
   Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center
   2630 Fanta Reed Road
   La Crosse, WI 54603
   email: brent_knights@usgs.gov              [arnold-vp.jpg] Vice President
                                              Jeff Arnold
                                              Illinois Natural History Survey
                                              Illinois River Biological Station
                                              Havana, IL 62644
                                              email: jlarnold@staff.uiuc.edu
   [neal1998.jpg] Treasurer
   Dr. Neal Mundahl
   Department of Biology
   Winona State University
   P.O. Box 5838
   Winona, MN 55087
   email: nmundahl@vax2.winona.msus.edu       [mike1998.jpg] Secretary
                                              Dr. Michael Romano
                                              Western Illinois University
                                              Dept. Biological Sciences
                                              1 University Circle
                                              Macomb, IL 61455
                                              email: mfmar@wiu.edu

                                 o-line.gif

   URL: http://www.umesc.usgs.gov/mrrc.html
   Last updated: October 2001
   Maintained by: brent_knights@usgs.gov
