http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/04_nanotech.pdf

   1DQRWHFKQRORJ\ The need for improved spatial resolution currently
   limits the ability of industry to answer key questions regarding the
   chemical composition of surfaces and interfaces. Needs range from
   improved chemical and structural diagnostics to phase identification
   and trace compositional analysis. In addition to meeting current
   industry needs in these areas, there is a continuing demand for new
   measurement methods to be developed that will be positioned to meet
   emerging measurement challenges. NIST/CSTL develops measurement tools
   that enable chemical characterization of elements, isotopes, and
   molecules at millimeter to nanometer spatial scales with major, minor,
   and trace concentrations. These tools are developed such that the
   "microspatial" relationships can be correlated with specific
   macroscopic properties. Phase Identification from Sub 200-nm particles
   by Electron Backscatter Diffraction (EBSD) J.A. Small (837) The
   signal-to-noise ratio of electron backscatter diffraction measurements
   for particles in the submicrometer range is limited by electron scatter
   from areas of the sample other than the particle of interest. We have
   developed a sample holder to enable particle mounting on a thin,
   electron transparent, substrate that reduces the noise contribution
   from electrons that scatter into the substrate and thus improves
   pattern quality from particles less than 300 nm in size. The use of
   other thin-film compositions and low accelerating voltages may extend
   the application of EBSD phase identification to particles less than 100
   nm in size. Figure (c) is the EBSD pattern from a 160 nm Al2O3 particle
   mounted on a bulk carbon substrate (a). Figure (d) is the EBSD pattern
   from a 150 nm Al2O3 particle mounted on a 20 nm carbon thin-film (b).
   The quality of the EBSD pattern from the particle mounted on the thin
   substrate is clearly superior to the pattern from the particle mounted
   on the bulk substrate and has a high enough signal-to-noise ratio to
   conduct a phase identification analysis of the particle and identify it
   as hexagonal Al2O3. Fabrication and Electron Microprobe
   Characterization of Barium-Strontium-Titanate (BST) Film R.B.
   Marinenko, J. Armstrong (837), D.L. Kaiser, J.J. Ritter, P.K. Schenck,
   C. Bouldin, J.E. Blendell, and I. Levin (MSEL) The electron probe
   microanalyzer (EPMA) was used to quantify the composition of 5 nm to
   400 nm thick BST films. Accurate and reproducible quantitative analysis
   of films with thicknesses greater than 20 nm can be done readily. But
   the analysis of films that are only a few nanometers thick are more
   difficult to quantify with EPMA due to the low x-ray count rates
   resulting from the very small sample volumes. 33 Three commercial BST
   films (54 nm, 75 nm, and 400 nm thick) on Si or Pt/Si substrates
   prepared by sputtering or MOVCD were analyzed. Eight films prepared at
   NIST (5 nm to 100 nm thick) were also analyzed. Uncertainties in the
   EPMA data taken from the randomly selected points on each BST is one of
   a few high dielectric specimen were approximately 2% relative or less
   for materials considered for the next films in the range of 40 nm to
   400 nm, but these generation gate dielectric layers where uncertainties
   increased to as much as 20% relative thicknesses down to 1 nm will be
   required. Since the properties and for films less than 20 nm thick.
   Improvements in performance of these materials are statistics for the
   thinner films will be needed for strongly dependent upon thickness and
   EPMA to be useful for characterizing the thinnest composition,
   analytical methods that films. Other materials proposed for gate exide
   layers, can determine these characteristics such as the oxides of
   zirconium, hafnium, and accurately are critical. aluminum and silicon
   oxynitrides may be evaluated with EPMA. Phosphor Imaging Plate
   Measurements of Primary Electron Beam Broadening in the Environmental
   Scanning Electron Microscope S.A. Wight and C.J. Zeissler (837) The
   resolution of the environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM)) is
   limited by the scattering of primary electrons out of the electron
   probe. Since it is critical to understand the size and magnitude of the
   electron skirt to test simulations and generate correction schemes, we
   Graphical representation of have developed a method the primary and
   scattered to directly measur el e ectrons at short and long electrons
   scattered out of beam-gas path-length and high and low pressures of the
   primary electron beam water. as a function of vacuum and instrument
   conditions, using phosphor imaging plate technology. Fundamental
   Studies of Mechanisms in Molecular SIMS Using Cluster Projectiles G.
   Gillen (837) The high sensitivity, monolayer sampling depth, and high
   spatial resolution of secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) make it a
   promising technique for industrial applications in polymer surface
   characterization, biomolecule analysis and evaluation of organic
   surface contamination. We are evaluating new approaches for organic
   surface analysis using energetic cluster bombardment (Cluster SIMS) and
   attempting to develop a fundamental understanding of the mechanisms of
   cluster-organic surface sputtering in order to optimize the technique.
   Compared to conventional SIMS, the use of small cluster primary ion
   beams, such as C -8, can enhance molecular secondary ion signals by
   several orders of magnitude as well as reduce beam-induced damage in
   some materials. We have found that optimal secondary ion yields and
   minimal accumulation of damage are obtained by using cluster ions in
   the range from C - - 6 to C8 . Computer modeling of the cluster-surface
   interaction indicates that the reduction in damage accumulation is
   primarily related to the dissociation of a cluster ion after impact
   with the surface leading to a significant reduction in the depth of the
   altered layer below the sputtered surface. Furthermore, recent
   experiments suggest that the enhancement in secondary ion signal under
   cluster bombardment results from the much higher fraction of intact
   molecules that survive the cluster impact event. These fundamental 34
   studies will eventually lead to a robust new method for organic surface
   analysis that could be transferred to US industry. Ultra Shallow Depth
   Profiling by ToF-SIMS A.J. Fahey and S.V. Roberson (837) The operating
   parameters and the capability of time-of-flight secondary ion mass
   spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) are being evaluated for depth-profiling
   analysis of nanometer-scale boron implants in silicon Reductions in the
   scale of wafers. Using the NIST ToF- semiconductor devices SIMS that is
   equipped with require SIMS two ion sources, the boron measurements with
   depth signal in boron-doped silicon resolutions on the was measured
   where the nanometer scale. boron was deposited in near- monolayer
   planes separated by 15 nm. Using a pulsed Ga+ ion beam and SF5+ ions
   for the sputtering beam, resolution as a function of depth ranged from
   1.45 nm to 1.66 nm, consistent with previous measurements. However, the
   dose for the analyzing beam can be high under depth profiling
   conditions and can lead to a degradation in resolution. Thus, care was
   taken to reduce the Ga+ dose, but this had the consequence of making
   analysis Depth profile of boron times longer than desirable for
   industrial application of ToF-SIMS for delta structure. depth
   profiling. Depth Profiling of Organic Films using the Time-of-Flight
   SIMS S.V. Roberson (837) Researchers in the CSTL's Surface and
   Microanalysis Science Division are optimizing the parameters for
   analysis and erosion in depth profiling of organic films by using a
   dual beam approach with time-of-flight SIMS. In this method, a
   low-energy sputter gun erodes a square crater in the sample while a
   second, pulsed ion gun is used to analyze a small region in the center
   of the sputtered crater. This dual-beam approach was investigated in
   terms of its usefulness for studying positive molecular ion emission
   from thin films of glutamate and PMMA on silicon Dual beam depth
   profile of a substrates. The method should be useful for profiling of
   ultra thin glutamate thin film. layers and for interface analysis. 35
   Characterization of the Morphology of Voids in Rutile Nanoparticles S.
   Turner (837) The Surface and Microanalysis Science Division is
   characterizing the morphology of voids in rutile nanoparticles using
   transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and selected area electron
   diffraction (SAED). The characterization of nanoparticle morphology
   relative to crystallographic orientation is challenging, in part due to
   the small size of the particles and to difficulties in their
   manipulation. It is also important since some crystallographic planes
   in catalyst particles are more reactive than other planes and therefore
   preferable for promoting some reactions. In this study, TiO2 (rutile)
   nanoparticles containing voids are Proposed model for cavities in
   characterized. In previous work, it was shown that some some rutile
   nanoparticles. rutile nanoparticles generated in a flame burner system
   contain central inclusions. These inclusions were characterized as
   voids or cavities using electron holography. Similar cavities have been
   noted in palladium nanoparticles. The morphology of these facetted
   cavities is of potential interest in determining volume changes in
   transformation reactions. If the cavities have reached equilibrium, the
   morphology is also of interest in determining relative surface energies
   of crystals. Prior to this work, the morphology of cavities in
   nanoparticles had not been determined. Our measurements indicated that
   many of the voids are consistent with a prismatic morphology with
   dipyramid terminations. Absorption Sensitivity and Spatial Resolution
   in Near-Field Infrared Spectroscopy C.A. Michaels and S.J. Stranick
   (837) The integration of IR absorption spectroscopy into near- field
   scanning optical microscopy is a promising approach to in-situ,
   non-destructive, high spatial resolution imaging, with applications in
   the chemical characterization of materials and nanotechnology. We are
   assessing absorption sensitivity, attainable spatial resolution, and
   the sensitivity of near-field IR absorption microscopy to topographic
   artifacts. Our results indicate that the microscope sensitivity is
   sufficiently high to allow spectral measurements of samples of
   sub-wavelength thickness and that near-field absorption imaging The
   near-field infrared absorption may be less sensitive to topographic
   artifacts spectrum of a 2 µm thick polystyrene film than other
   near-field imaging modes. in the aliphatic C-H stretching region
   acquired in 1 s. Analyzing the Tough Ones: Quantitative X-ray
   Microanalysis of Extreme Topography D.E. Newbury (837) Conventional
   quantitative electron probe microanalysis is restricted to surfaces
   that are flat to a relief of 100 nm amplitude or less by geometric
   effects on electron scattering and x-ray We have overcome the surface
   absorption. Therefore, conventional quantitative x-ray flatness
   limitations of microanalysis of rough specimens can be severely
   conventional quantitative compromised. We have overcome the surface
   flatness electron probe microanalysis limitations of conventional
   quantitative electron probe using point beam analysis. microanalysis
   using point beam analysis (the peak-to-local background (P/B) method)
   that incorporates measures of both 36 the characteristic and continuum
   (bremsstrahlung) x-rays at the same energy. Use of this method on a
   IN-100 Alloy Sphere (122 $m diameter; screened from EDS) for Al-K,
   Mo-L, Ti-K, Cr-K, Co-K, and Ni-K produced more than an order of
   magnitude improvement in relative error in some cases. Effects of
   Elastic-Electron Scattering on Measurements of Silicon Dioxide Film
   Thicknesses by X-Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy C.J. Powell (837) and
   A. Jablonski (Institute of Physical Chemistry) Auger electron
   spectroscopy (AES) and x-ray photoelectron spectrosocopy (XPS) are used
   1.4 extensively in the semiconductor and other industries Si 2p 80 75 !
   (deg) 70 Mg K! "x-rays for determining thickness of thin (< 10 nm)
   overlayer 1.3 # = 54o films on substrates. We are improving the
   measurement accuracy of these techniques through 1.2 P 65 calculations
   of the ratio of the effective attenuation F Substrate /IM Current (%)
   length (EAL) for the relevant electron energy and film L> 1.1 A
   material to the inelastic mean free path (IMFP). The
