http://www.nnsa.doe.gov/page_new.htm

   [nnsa-logo-withflag.gif]

   [whatsnew-frontpageheader.gif]
   Administrator John Gordon's Statement Regarding Security at Nuclear
   Weapons Facilities
   January 23, 2002 - Administrator John Gordon released this statement
   regarding security at the Department of Energys nuclear weapons
   facilities.
   Read the Press Release

   Director of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory to Step Down as
   Director
   December 7, 2001 - After a 34-year career that includes serving seven
   years as director of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Dr. Bruce
   Tarter will step down as director next year.
   Read the Press Release

   Linton Brooks Assumes Post as Deputy Administrator for NNSA Defense
   Nuclear Nonproliferation Office
   October 30, 2001 - Ambassador Linton F. Brooks was sworn in today as
   the Deputy Administrator for the National Nuclear Security
   Administrations (NNSA) Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Office.
   Ambassador Brooks was nominated by President Bush on July 19, 2001 and
   was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on October 16.
   Read the Press Release

   NNSA Product Aids in Anthrax Clean-up
   October 27, 2001 - A decontamination formulation developed at an NNSA
   laboratory promises to be a key element in the battle to limit the
   spread of Anthrax.
   Read the Press Release

   National Nuclear Security Administration to Help Train Former Soviet
   WMD Scientists in Commercial Information Technology Fields --Reduces
   Proliferation Threats--
   October 4, 2001 - The NNSAs Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention
   (IPP) program seeks to engage Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) experts
   at former Soviet facilities in the development of commercial
   technologies for peaceful purposes.
   Read the Press Release

   [welcome.gif]
   Welcome to Our Web Site
   [Gordon-sm.jpg] Here, we provide information on the NNSA and links to
   the web sites of supporting offices. Our objective is to increase
   public awareness of nuclear security and reducing the threat of global
   nuclear proliferation as well as other current issues.
