http://www.ofa.noaa.gov/rdc/isfocd2.html

                         Computer Division Home Page
     __________________________________________________________________


                               [wavenoaa.gif]

        Click here to view restaurant and lodging locations near ITC

             Click here to view pictiure of Computer Room (GIF)

                  Click here to check out ITC/NMI Home Page

                   Click here to check out NOAA Home Page

                 Click here to check out DOC Home Page Page

                   Click here to send question / comments


     Click here to learn about the Mission of the Computer Division

     Click here to view Branch Chiefs of the Computer Division

     Click here to learn about the Budget and Staffing of the Computer
     Divison

     Click here to learn about the various branches at the Computer Division

     Click here to learn about Specific Programs and Projects

     Click here to learn about the services of Production Control

     Click here to learn about the transmission process of the Time and
     Attendance System

     Click here to learn about the various network the Computer Division
     manage

     Click here to view a list of Administrative Application the Computer
     Division operates

     Click here to learn about the several e-mail gateways Computer Division
     run

     Click here to learn about the Internet server known as the NOAA
     Management Information Home Page

     Click here to learn about the two high speed large output Xerox laser
     printer operated by the Computer Division

     Click here to learn about the recently installed hardware and software
     to produce CD-ROM disks

     Click here to learn about the NOAA Locator and Organizational Directory
     update process

     Summerize what Computer Division has to offer to other federal agencies
     __________________________________________________________________

  Overview

   The mission of the Computer Division is to provide comprehensive
   computer, network, telecommunications, and systems services for NOAA
   components, other designated Department of Commerce Bureaus, and other
   federal agencies. The Division's resources are directed to meet
   National Performance Review (NPR) objectives for cost effective
   computing and telecommunications for administrative and management
   applications. The central processing, network, telecommunications,
   database management, mass storage, CD-ROM, Internet, printing, and
   e-mail gateway facilities of the Division provide information
   technology users with responsive resources for access and processing of
   NOAA corporate data.

   The Division operates three DEC Alpha computers, numerous related high
   performance computing platforms, a Wide Area Network, a high speed
   fiber optic connection, a high volume laser photocopy center, a CD-ROM
   production facility, and scores of dial-in data lines.

   Several major administrative and management systems including the NOAA
   accounting system (FIMA), the Commerce Administrative Management System
   (CAMS), The Time and Attendance System, the NOAA Grants System, and the
   NWS Modernization Tracking System are managed at the Division. It
   administers the NOAA Management Information (NMI) World Wide Web
   Internet server, produces the NOAA Locator and Organization Directory,
   and operates the central control facility for the setup, scheduling,
   and process monitoring of all run streams for the NOAA Accounting
   System and the DOC Time and Attendance System.

  Management Team

   Lillian Barnes

                      Chief Application Branch

   Joseph C. Smith III

                      Acting Chief, Computer Division

   George D. Gartland

                      Acting Chief, Operations Branch

  Budget and Staffing

   The Computer Division is staffed by 19 full time and 1 part time
   government employees. In addition, the Division utilizes 23 full time
   contract employees plus a part time pool of approximately 15
   individuals (totaling 4.5 staff years) fully trained to staff weekends,
   holidays, and to cover absences of the regular full time employees. The
   Division operates 24 hours a day seven days per week. The contract
   employees are under a contract initially awarded in FY94 which
   continues through FY98. The contract has an escalation factor of
   approximately 2% with the FY96 cost estimated at $1.5 million. The
   Division=s FY 1997 budget is $3.9 million.

  Organization

   The Division consists of two Branches, a production control staff, as
   well as a division secretary and administrative assistant.

   The Operations Branch is responsible for day to day management of all
   computing and communications hardware, operating systems, and software
   operated in the Division. The Branch provides telecommunications, LAN,
   WAN, and database management expertise to NOAA clients.

   The Applications Branch is responsible for the management of client
   application systems and software. It provides application systems
   analysis, software support, and programming for the systems operated
   and supported by the Computer Division. The Branch maintains the
   systems software for specialized ADP systems such as the CD-ROM Writer
   and the XEROX 9700 Laser Printers, and maintains production systems
   such as the NOAA Locator and Organization Directory. It develops and
   maintains large scale computer accounting systems for the National
   Weather Service. It provides general user assistance, programming, and
   computer graphics consulting at the applications level.

   The User Services Staff performs system control and monitoring
   functions for the NOAA Accounting Systems and the DOC T&A system that
   run on the facilities operated by the Computer Division. It
   coordinates, monitors, submits, and runs Time and Attendance (T&A) data
   transmissions and jobs. It coordinates, monitors, submits, and runs all
   batch jobs for the NOAA Accounting System. The Staff also provides
   extensive technical assistance to users.

  Specific Programs and Projects

  Production Control Services

   The Division operates a two shift production control service that
   includes the setup, scheduling, submission and monitoring of run
   streams for the NOAA FIMA accounting system and Time and Attendance
   System. Other production control functions include output distribution
   of all production processing, maintenance of application documentation,
   and the resolution of process problems. This service also coordinates
   the T&A transmissions for all agencies of the Department to the
   National Finance Center.

  Time and Attendance System Support

   The Division provides payroll transmission and T&A entry services to
   approximately 700 transmission points from all DOC Bureaus nationwide.
   Over 25,000 DOC employee records are processed bi- weekly through the
   Division where they are consolidated and transmitted to the National
   Finance Center for final processing.

  Wide Area Network Management

   The Computer Division manages a nine node national Wide Area Network
   (NOAANet). The WAN provides reliable communications between NOAA's
   Administrative Support Centers in Seattle WA., Boulder CO., Kansas City
   MO., and Norfolk, VA., as well as the NOAA and DOC facilities in Silver
   Spring MD., Germantown MD., Washington DC., Springfield VA., and New
   Orleans LA. NOAAnet also provides connectivity for the Eastern Region
   of the National Weather Service to the SSMC campus, and connectivity to
   the Atlantic Marine Center in Norfolk Virginia. It is comprised of
   CISCO 7000 series routers running TCP/IP over the FTS2000 EPSS (Frame
   Relay) network. Major applications supported on the WAN include the
   Time and Attendance System, the Personnel/Payroll System at USDA/NFC,
   Interactive and Batch FIMA, Banyan Servers, and the Personal Property
   System, among others.

  Administrative Applications Support

   The Division manages and supports over a dozen major NOAA and DOC
   financial, administrative, management and personnel systems. Most of
   these system run on the Alpha 7760 or on NT, Unix, or Banyan
   application servers. These include the following systems.

   * The NOAA Grants System (NGS)
   * Financial Assistance Disbursement (FADS)
   * NOAA Distribution System (DIST)
   * Personnel System
   * Rents
   * Travel Manager (TM)
   * Electronic System for Personnel (ESP)
   * Security Information System (SIS)
   * Position Description Library (PD Library)
   * Controlled Correspondence System (CCS)

  E-Mail Gateways and Directory Services

   The Division runs several e-mail gateways to facilitate the exchange of
   messages between different e-mail systems within NOAA and DOC.
   Telecommunications hardware and software centralized at the Division is
   used to promote e-mail interchange within NOAA and the other bureaus of
   the Department of Commerce. There are two primary gateways: Banyan to
   Internet of which there are 1,200 registered users, ccMail to Banyan of
   which there are 4,000 registered users. The Banyan to Internet gateway
   processes approximately 8,000 emails per week. The ccMail to Banyan
   gateway processes approximately 700 messages per week.

   The Division manages the NOAA Mailhub. The Mailhub allows users to
   exchange information through their preferred messaging systems while at
   the same time providing full integration and directory interchange
   within all NOAA components. The technology uses a common gateway and
   directory structure, and provides for easy exchange of multiple common
   attachment formats such as word processing documents, spreadsheets,
   graphics, and other files. This solution reduces NOAA's long term email
   costs, incorporates all industry based email standards, centralizes
   list management, enables uniform distribution of documents and
   establishes a central email management structure in NOAA. The unified
   NOAA X.500 directory contains 13,742 email addresses. The directory is
   updated nightly and is highly automated. Each day over 35,000 email
   messages are processed through the Mailhub, with peaks as high as
   45,000. As of February 6, 1998 over 10.3 million messages have been
   processed through the Mailhub.

   The Division provides connectivity from NOAA ships at sea to the
   Internet. Via a 64kbs uplink to the InMarSat-B Comsat satellite, across
   ISDN lines to the Division, NOAA's fleet can transmit data files and
   emails as easily as any NOAA office.

  Internet Services

   The Division maintains an Internet server known as the NOAA Management
   Information Home Page. This system operates as a service to NOAA
   personnel who use the Internet as well as the Internet community at
   large. It contains key administrative and management information. It is
   updated at least once per day. The average number of hits per day on
   the server is over 35,000 and growing. There are 15 major applications
   on the server. These include: the NOAA Locator and Organizational
   Directory, NOAA vacancy announcements, NOAA Training Calendar, NOAA
   Grants, NOAA Organization Handbook, NOAA Diversity Plan, NOAA
   Administrative Orders, and NOAA Scientific Workstation Contract.

  XEROX 9700 Laser Printer Services

   The Division operates two high speed large output Xerox laser printers,
   for the production of large end user print jobs. In addition to NOAA's
   office of Human Resources the major client of this service are
   Treasury, DOC Office of the Secretary, GAO, Department of Agriculture,
   and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Roughly 1.5 million
   pages are printed per month. Major features include two sided printing,
   18,000 lines per second speed, variable page densities, character size
   and line spacing, electronic forms/logos/signatures/shading, portrait
   or landscape orientation, variable paperweight, and continuous
   operations.

  CD-ROM Production Services

   The Division recently installed hardware and software to produce CD-ROM
   disks to replace the antiquated 16mm microfilm processing of Financial
   Management (FIMA) reports. Additional software was developed as an
   interface between the IBM-PC based CD-ROM writer and the Alpha 7760.
   The conversion to CD-ROM technology alleviates several problems
   associated with the microfilm reports. Among the occasional problems
   were light print quality on some frames; dark streaks or lines on some
   frames; film that would not load into the reader/printers; and jamming
   or breaking of the film in the reader/printers.

   Each compact disk written on the new equipment can contain up to 650MB
   of text. With this capacity, the FIMA Weekly Other Objects reports
   which previously required eleven cartridges of 16mm microfilm for each
   of the six sets produced requires only one disk for each set produced.
   Likewise, for the bi-weekly reports one disk contains all the reports
   that previously required several cartridges of microfilm. One disk now
   contains the thirty-four FIMA Monthly reports previously generated on
   approximately forty cartridges of microfilm.

  NOAA Locator and Organizational Directory

   The Division updates and publishes the 14,000 name NOAA Directory
   Database twice per year. This is a very labor and time intensive
   process. About 20% of the database changes with each update. This is
   due to constant reorganizations, moves, phone number changes, name
   changes, NWS modernization, email address changes, fax number changes,
   and new voice mail extensions.

  Summary

   A government agency that conducts its administrative and business
   functions in an efficient and effective manner is the mark of a well
   managed organization. In recent years Congress and the Administration
   have placed special emphasis on improving and streamlining
   administrative functions. Mandated reforms such as the Government
   Performance and Results Act, Information Technology Management Reform
   Act, CFO Act, just to name a few, as well as the National Performance
   Review, have served to promote high quality, responsive, and cost
   effective administrative functions in government operations. Generally
   in each of these reform efforts, information technology is seen as a
   powerful tool for improving government services and reducing costs.

   The mission of the Computer Division is to provide NOAA with cost
   effective enterprise-wide computing, networking, and information
   systems services for administrative, financial, and management
   functions. The Division provides NOAA with an array of key computing
   services including operating the accounting, grants, and payment
   systems; managing the national wide-area network; managing the email
   hub and address directory, hosting the administrative and management
   home page; providing production control for payroll processing; and
   maintaining the employee locator database; and maintaining specialized
   databases used for personnel and facilities management.

   During a typical business day, the Division processes 35,000 electronic
   mail messages; 1,800 logins; 1,000 batch jobs; 30,000 Web hits; 60,000
   printed pages; 1,250,000 data packets; and, 3,100 X.500 directory
   searches. Each biweekly payroll period, the payroll operation collects,
   edits, validates, and transmits to the National Finance Center over
   14,000 payroll records.

   The Division's Government and Contractor staffs have been successful in
   exploiting new information technology to satisfy the demands of
   increased administrative workloads, business process improvements, and
   downsizing of funding and personnel. The staff has designed, developed,
   and implemented new systems which have made NOAA a more efficient
   organization. For example the modernization of the WAN to a TCP/IP,
   Frame Relay, and router based network. However the advances toward
   administrative improvements remain rudimentary. As a result, demands on
   the information technology professionals in the Division will grow with
   increasing workload from new initiatives.

   In the near future three major initiatives are readily apparent. The
   first is implementation of a standards based, open networking
   infrastructure, the second is the implementation of a enterprise,
   comprehensive, integrated business management system, the third is to
   design and implement an information services data architecture.

   The new network will be a vendor independent, standards based, open
   network architecture. Its scope is beyond the traditional file and
   print services of LAN architectures. In its broadest sense it includes
   both intranet and Internet services as well as routine communications
   and network services. It presents the network as an open and accessible
   utility from which services can be obtained and applications accessed
   from any point on the network through direct or indirect means. The
   network is viewed as a shared common resource that is the main vehicle
   for transacting daily administrative, financial, and administrative
   business both inside and outside the organization. The LAN as a local
   or self-contained network becomes virtually an obsolete concept.
   Connectivity and access to any network resource, local, national or
   international drives the architecture. Access internally to NOAA's
   large and diverse computing and database resources, as well as
   extensions to the academic, scientific, and governmental communities
   defines the scope of the network

   The second initiative, fully automating and integrating enterprise
   administrative functions will reap many benefits to NOAA. The Computer
   Division is committed to deploying a standard suite of business
   applications based on proven software and services. The current mixed
   vendor environment, with non-standard software is very inefficient. A
   common user interface and common database is required for all of the
   following functions: financial operations, procurement, asset
   management, budgeting, grants, billing and collections, payroll, HR
   management, and other specialized business and administrative
   functions. Deploying enterprise business applications is an extremely
   challenging effort that will require dedication from both Computer
   Division and commercial resources.

   And finally an Information Services Environment, that provides an
   efficient data architecture as well as the means to readily access
   information is a major initiative. Web and Java enabled applications
   that lower the cost of client server computing without reducing the
   benefits, are but two examples of where the Computer Division can
   improve the effectiveness and efficiency of enterprise business
   functions in NOAA.

   The Computer Division seeks to accomplish these initiatives, to
   identify and pursue others that, for now are less apparent, and to
   offer and provide services to NOAA, DOC, and other federal agencies,
   now and in the future.
