http://www.npms.rspa.dot.gov/links/dotlinks.htm

   Return to NPMS Home

   Information about NPMS Information on Submitting NPMS Data Utilities
   for NPMS Repositories NPMS Data Requests and Dissemination NPMS Mailing
   List NPMS Related Links Software and Standards Query/Search NPMS
   Website Email NPMS


   Repository Links
   Bureau of
   Transporation
   Statistics
   United States
   Department of
   Energy
   The Federal
   Energy Regulatory
   Commission
   The Federal
   Geographic Data
   Committee
   The United States
   Geological Survey
   The United States
   Department of the
   Interior - Minerals
   Management Service
   The American
   Petroleum Institute
   The American
   Gas Association
   The Interstate
   Natural Gas
   Association of
   America
   American Public
   Gas Association

                                 NPMS LINKS

   The following are Internet links for organizations that have been
   involved in working with USDOT in creating the NPMS :-

   The Bureau of Transportation Statistics (www.bts.gov) - is an operating
   administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation, acting as a
   statistical, mapping, and transportation analysis agency. As required
   by the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of
   1991, BTS works to improve the knowledge base for public decision
   making, while improving public awareness of the nation's transportation
   system and its consequences.

   The United States Department of Energy (www.doe.gov) - is responsible
   for ensuring the nation's energy security while working to assure
   clean, affordable, and dependable energy supplies through promoting
   energy diversity, encouraging domestic oil and gas production,
   supporting commercial nuclear energy research, and increasing energy
   efficiency. DOE is also tasked with maintaining the safety, security,
   and reliability of U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile, while cleaning up
   the environment from the legacy of the Cold War, using scientific and
   technical expertise in the safe treatment, storage, and final disposal
   of radioactive wastes, surplus nuclear materials, and spent nuclear
   fuels. Another major part of DOE is in developing innovations in
   science and technology, while conducting breakthrough research in
   energy sciences and technology, high energy physics, superconducting
   materials, accelerator technologies, material sciences, and
   environmental sciences at national laboratories throughout the U.S.

   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (www.ferc.fed.us) - is an
   independent regulatory agency within the U.S. Department of Energy that
   (1) regulates the transmission and sale for resale of natural gas in
   interstate commerce, (2) regulates the transmission of oil by pipeline
   in interstate commerce, (3) regulates the transmission and wholesale
   sales of electricity in interstate commerce, (4) licenses and inspects
   private, municipal, and state hydroelectric projects, (5) oversees
   related environmental matters, (6) administers accounting and financial
   reporting regulations and conducts of jurisdictional companies.

   The Federal Geographic Data Committee (www.fgdc.gov) - is an
   interagency committee composed of representatives from sixteen Cabinet
   level and independent federal agencies, that promotes the coordinated
   use, sharing, and dissemination of geospatial data on a national basis.

   The United States Geological Survey (www.usgs.gov) - is the premier
   governmental agency tasked with providing reliable and impartial
   information to describe and understand the Earth and the processes
   within, and which is used to (1) minimize loss of life and property
   from natural disasters, (2) manage water, biological, energy, and
   mineral resources, (3) enhance and protect the quality of life, and (4)
   contribute to wise economic and physical development. Additionally, the
   USGS works in the classification of public lands, and the examination
   of geological structures, mineral resources, and products within the
   nation, while conducting research to develop and apply innovative means
   of solving resource management problems.

   The Minerals Management Service (www.mms.gov) - is a bureau of the U.S.
   Department of the Interior whose mission is to manage the mineral
   resource of the outer continental shelf in an environmentally sound and
   safe manner and to collect, verify, and distribute mineral revenues
   from Federal and Indian lands in a timely fashion.

   The American Petroleum Institute (www.api.org) - is the major national
   trade association representing the entire petroleum industry in
   exploration, transportation, refining, and marketing activities.

   The American Gas Association (www.aga.org) - acts as a clearinghouse
   for gas energy information, as a catalyst in technical and energy
   policy matters, and as a powerful voice for its members including local
   natural gas utilities, marketers, gatherers, international gas
   companies, and other industry associates.

   The Interstate Natural Gas Association of America (www.ingaa.org) - is
   a trade organization that advocates regulatory, legislative and
   individual positions of importance to the natural gas pipeline
   industry. Its membership includes virtually all of the interstate
   natural gas transmission companies in the United States, in addition to
   comparable companies in Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia, and South
   America.

   American Public Gas Association (www.apga.org) - is a nonprofit, mutual
   service trade organization representing America's publicly owned
   natural gas distribution systems. It works closely with government
   agencies and natural gas groups to advance the technology of public
   gas. Its membership encompasses most of America's public gas systems,
   numbering more than 480 members.


   Disclaimer: By utilizing these links, you will leave the United States
   Department of Transportation (USDOT) server. The USDOT takes no
   responsibility for and exercises no control over the organization,
   views, or accuracy of the information contained on non-DOT servers.
   Thank you for visiting our site.

             [NPMS General] [Submissions] [Repositories] [Data]
              [Listserver] [Links] [Home] [Search] [Contact Us]
