http://egov.gov/mandates_laws.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map

   Related Links

   United States Federal Legislation & Regulations link skipping group

   Program Partners


   Mandates and Laws

   Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA)
   The Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), P. L. 105-277, Title
   XVII allows citizens to use electronic technologies when filing
   information with, or retrieving it from the Federal Government. The
   Act, signed into law in October 1998, directs Federal agencies to
   provide public access to government services and documents by 2003 and
   gives the public the option of submitting government forms
   electronically.

   Government Paperwork Elimination Act 1999, October 1998
   Microsoft Word Version Available

   Further, GPEA requires agencies, by October 21, 2003, to provide for
   the (1) option of electronic maintenance, submission, or disclosure of
   information, when practicable as a substitute for paper; and (2) use
   and acceptance of electronic signatures, when practicable. Agencies
   were required to submit their GPEA plans to OMB by October 31, 2000 per
   the instructions of OMB memorandum, "Achieving Electronic Government:
   Instruction for Plans to Implement the Government Paperwork Elimination
   Act", signed by John T. Spotila on July 25, 2000. GSA is currently
   assisting OMB in the collection and analysis of the GPEA data. Further
   plans and activities will be developed as the GPEA data call results
   are reviewed.
   Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996 (ITMRA)
   On February 10, 1996, the President signed ITMRA into law. ITMRA
   establishes Agency Chief Information Officers to manage the acquisition
   and deployment of the Federal Government's IT resources.
   Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)
   Public Law 104-191, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
   Act of 1996 (HIPAA), is an amendment to the Internal Revenue Code of
   1986. The legislation establishes guarantees of health insurance
   access, portabilitlity and renewability and the prohibition of health
   insurance discrimination based on health status. The law mandates the
   creation of a federal set of health care identifiers for health care
   providers, insurers, and patients to support electronic transactions
   and access to records. The law further requires creation of Federal
   standards for citizen access to electronic health records and the
   confidentiality of such records and disclosure. The Department of
   Health and Human Services Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA)
   has principal federal responsiblity to implement the Act and is in the
   process of promulgating implementing regulations. HCFA and the health
   care industry are looking to public key infrastructure, such as the GSA
   ACES program, as a technical foundation for the broad-based security
   requirements of the law.
   The Electronic Signature in Global and National Commerce Act
   Brings full legal force to on-line signatures and contracts. The law,
   signed by President Clinton in July using electronic digital signature
   technology form GSA's Access Certificates for Electronic Services
   program, took effect on October 1. The law's legal guarantee is
   expected to be an important first step in moving business on-line.

   OMB Guidance on Implementing the Electronic Signatures in Global and
   National Commerce Act, September 2000

   Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act
   The law is intended to make it easier for State, local, and tribal
   governments and nonprofit organizations to apply for and report on
   financial assistance. The Act requires agencies to create a common
   system for electronic processing of all grant programs.
   Electronic Benefit Transfer Interoperability and Portability Act
   Enacted February 11, 2000, this legislation Amends the Food Stamp Act
   of 1977 to provide for a national standard of interoperability and
   portability applicable to electronic food stamp benefit transactions
   IT Accessibility for persons with disabilities
   IT Accessibility known in Government as Section 508 after the law
   requiring all systems to be accessible to persons with disabilities, is
   an important initiative for the next 3 years as we go through the
   transition process. The enforcement part of the law is effective in the
   Spring of 2001 when it requires all IT products procured to be
   accessible to persons with deafness, blindness and those dexterity and
   mobility limitations unless an undue burden by the agency is
   established. GSA is leading the Governmentwide effort, working closely
   with 88 agencies through their CIO designated 508 coordinator and is
   implementing procurement regulations, training Webmasters and
   procurement officials, and working with the industry to ensure that
   products become available.

   Justice Department Guide on Legal Considerations in Designing and
   Implementing Electronic Processes (November 2000) [ Word Version ] [
   pdf version ]

   National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) Records Management
   Guidance for Agencies Implementing Electronic Signature Technologies,
   October 18, 2000 [ Word Version ] [ PDF Version Download Adobe Acrobat
   Reader ]


           Home | Privacy & Security | About Us | Staff | Site Map
                  Contact Us | Search | Privacy Information

   Accessibility 05/07/2001 OGP-CIO
