http://atmos.jpl.nasa.gov/info.htm

                          Polar Stratospheric Cloud

   [kiruna1.jpg]   Background     These clouds exist at very high altitude
   (~70,000 ft) within Earth's stratosphere.  Clouds do not normally form
   in the stratosphere due to its extreme dryness.  During winter at high
   latitudes, however, stratospheric temperature sometimes becomes low
   enough to promote formation of clouds.  The colorful appearance of
   these clouds is caused by the small size of their particles, which
   refract visible light.  The clouds often remain fully illuminated for
   about 20 minutes following sunset at the ground because of their high
   altitude, resulting in a spectacular appearance of the twilight sky.  A
   good gauge of the altitude of these clouds is their illumination
   pattern as the sun rises or sets at the ground.
        Called "Mother of Pearl" by Scandinavians due to their iridescent
   appearance, these clouds are composed of mixtures of naturally
   occurring water and nitric acid.   Chemical reactions that occur on the
   surface of these clouds result in a remarkable transformation of
   stratospheric composition.  Chlorine that is supplied to the
   stratosphere mainly from industrial sources is converted from
   relatively unreactive forms to other forms that are highly reactive
   with ozone, leading to substantial ozone depletion.  It is a great
   irony that these beautiful clouds participate in a chain of events that
   results in the depletion of stratospheric ozone by man-made chlorine.
        A compelling account of the relationship between polar
   stratospheric clouds and ozone depletion is provided in an article
   entitled "The Hole Story", written by Gabrielle Walker, that appeared
   in the 25 March 2000 issue of New Scientist.  A scientific review of
   these issues is given in an article entitled "Stratospheric Ozone
   Depletion: A Review of Concepts and History" written by Susan Solomon,
   that appeared in Volume 37 of the journal Reviews of Geophysics.

                           JPL Research Activities

   An image of a polar stratospheric cloud has been chosen for our front
   page because many atmospheric chemistry research projects at JPL are
   focused on understanding the properties of these clouds and the
   consequences of their existence.  For example:

     • laboratory kineticists measure the rate of reactions on the
     surface of these clouds that lead ultimately to production of highly
     reactive ClO (chlorine monoxide) and they also measure the rate at
     which ClO depletes ozone.

     • laboratory spectroscopists measure fundamental physical properties
     of ozone and various other molecules that enable the concentration
     of these gases to be measured in polar regions by in situ and remote
     instruments such as ALIAS, ALIAS II, ATMOS, MkIV, MLS, and SLS.

     • numerous field instruments observe the chemical transformations
     that take place (e.g., chlorine transformations, denitrification and
     dehydration, and ozone depletion) when air is exposed to polar
     stratospheric clouds and investigate the physical properties of the
     clouds.

     • the modeling and analysis program quantifies the impact on ozone
     of enhanced concentrations of ClO that result from exposure of air
     to polar stratospheric clouds.

   It must be noted that atmospheric chemists at JPL also study changes to
   ozone in other regions of the stratosphere, and in the troposphere,
   that do not involve polar stratospheric clouds.


   [Back to the Atmospheric Chemistry Homepage]

   Author: Ross J. Salawitch
   Page Design: Aaron B. Milam
