http://www.scb.uscourts.gov/DOWNLOAD/Dwnload.htm

   [ISMAP:dlcbn.gif]-[USEMAP:dlcbn.gif]


                                  Download


   [ATYDESK1.GIF]

                                   Software


   ar405eng.exe VERSION 4.0 Acrobat Reader Software. Many files are stored
   in Adobe Acrobat (.pdf) file format. Gaining access to these files will
   require installation of the Adobe Acrobat Reader. For more information
        or other versions, visit the Adobe website at www.adobe.com.

                                    Files


     01LR.pdf Adobe Acrobat File (.pdf) format. 2001 SC Local Bankruptcy
   Rules (effective 10/1/01). This file contains the Clerk's Instructions
                        and the Local Official Forms
                     01CI.pdf 2001 Clerk's Instructions
                                  01LOF.pdf
                          2001 Local Official Forms
       Table.pdf Local Rules/Clerk's Instructions/Official Forms Cross
                               Reference Table
   Atydsk99.pdf Attorney Desk Reference Manual. The file contains the 1999
                           edition of the manual.
           EBN agreement Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing Agreement

                             Miscellaneous Forms

   Advcover.pdf
   Adversary Cover Sheet - This form has been created with input fields so
         that the user can complete it on the screen and then print.
                Hearing.pdf Expedited Hearing and Cover Sheet
                  Phone.pdf Clerk's Office Phone Extensions
   Poc.pdf Proof of Claim - input fields so that the user can complete it
            on the screen and then print will be available soon.
   Sp3.pdf Supoena for Rule 2004 Examination - This form has been created
    with input fields so that the user can complete it on the screen and
                                 then print.
      Sp2.pdf Subpoena in an Adversary Proceeding - This form has been
      created with input fields so that the user can complete it on the
                           screen and then print.
   Sp1.pdf Subpoena in a Bankruptcy Case - This form has been created with
    input fields so that the user can complete it on the screen and then
                                   print.
     Official Bankruptcy Forms Link to the Administrative Office of the
               United States Courts Official Bankruptcy Forms
                                 .pdf format
                      .wpd format Transcript Order Form
                                 .pdf format
                         .wpd format Tape Order Form

                               [ATYDESK1.GIF]
