http://warner.senate.gov/about/committees/armedservices.htm

   The United States Capitol Building Warner Main Page Banner Warner Main
                                                              Page Banner


   About the Senator Link
   Legislation Link
   Press Office Link
   Services Link
   Accomplishments Link
   Tourism Link
   Kids Link
   Services Link
   Contact the Senator


   [biography_i.gif] [committees_a.gif] [gallery_i.gif]

   Senate Armed Services Committee

   The venerable soldier, statesman, and Virginian, General George C.
   Marshall once noted, "In a democracy such as ours, military policy is
   dependent on public opinion." The Senate Committee on Armed Services is
   one of our nation's important congressional forums for ensuring that
   national security objectives and policy are guided by the priorities,
   concerns, and interests of the American people.

   I am privileged to have been a member of the Armed Services Committee
   every year since 1978. Currently, 25 Senators are members of the
   committee and I am the senior Republican. During my 23 years of
   service, the committee has addressed the most fundamental security
   issues facing the nation, including: the revitalization of the armed
   forces under President Reagan; the restructuring of the military
   following our success in the Cold War; and the review and
   implementation of the lessons learned from military operations in
   Greneda, Panama, the Persian Gulf, and, most recently, the lessons
   learned from the operations in the Balkans and, in particular, Kosovo.

   As chairman of the Armed Services Committee during the 106th Congress,
   I was pleased that the committee was able provide critical support to
   the military services, the men and women in uniform, their dependents
   and military retirees. In 1999, the committee provided the first real
   increase in spending for national security priorities in over a decade,
   including the first major increase in compensation for military
   personnel in 16 years. The following year, the committee authorized
   extensive improvements in healthcare for active duty service members,
   their dependents and military retirees. As chairman, I was convinced
   that it was important that the men and women of the armed forces not
   only have better tools and equipment to do their jobs, but also an
   enhanced quality of life for them and their families.

   When considering the many issues before the committee, I do so with an
   appreciation of the long and distinguished history of support shared by
   all Virginians for our armed forces. Today, more than 200,000 members
   of the military and Defense Department agencies serve in over ninety
   installations, bases, and facilities throughout the Commonwealth. In
   addition to the senior civilian and military leadership located at the
   Pentagon in Arlington, other noteworthy commands include the 29th
   Infantry Division in Fairfax County, the commander-in-chief of the U.S.
   Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, the 1st Tactical Fighter Wing in Hampton,
   the Marine Corps Base in Quantico, and the Army Ammunition Plant in
   Radford. I am fortunate that I am able to communicate the continuing
   pride of all Virginians for our armed forces as a member of the
   committee.

   Today, our nation faces new threats and challenges. Because of my
   membership on the Armed Services Committee, my admiration and respect
   for our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines has grown unabated over
   the years. With every confidence, I can report to my fellow Virginians
   and Americans that our military is indeed, "Manned and Ready."

                             Back to Committees

                  About the Senator  ·  Legislation  ·  Press
        Office  ·  Services  ·  Accomplishments  ·  Tourism  ·  Kid's
                                Page  ·  Contact
