http://www.usfa.fema.gov/about/press/01-239.htm

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Press Releases Banner Image


                                                  ABOUT USFA
                           USFA Programs Navigation Menu Link
                                 History Navigation Menu Link
                          Press Releases Navigation Menu Link
                                   FAQ's Navigation Menu Link
                Employment Opportunities Navigation Menu Link

Release No.: 01-239
Release Date: November 19, 2001

U.S. FIRE ADMINISTRATION OFFERS NEW RISK, HAZARD AND VALUE EVALUATION PROGRAM
FOR LOCAL OFFICIALS

   WASHINGTON - Through a cooperative agreement with the International
   Association of Fire Chiefs, the United States Fire Administration
   (USFA) has recently released the Risk, Hazard and Value Evaluation
   (RHAVE) program. RHAVE is a software-based program used by local public
   policy makers who choose to collect useful information and data
   regarding the identification and assessment of fire and related risks
   within their community. USFA is a part of the Federal Emergency
   Management Agency.

   "It is important for local fire and emergency leaders to have effective
   tools to evaluate the risks to health and safety in their communities,"
   said Ken Burris, Chief Operating Officer of USFA. "Through this
   software program we hope to be able to provide them with an additional
   tool in their preparedness arsenal."

   Information collected through the use of RHAVE model may then be used
   by community leaders when developing objective, quantifiable risk
   reduction policies such as the deployment of emergency service
   resources. The concept is a simple-to-use methodology combining forms,
   formulas, databases, and data analysis.

   The program consists of a users guide, software on CD-ROM (Microsoft
   Windows operating systems only) and accompanying installation
   instructions. The RHAVE process may be used in conjunction with the
   Self Assessment for Fire and Emergency Services Manual published by the
   Commission on Fire Accreditation International (CFAI) or the model may
   be used as a standalone tool. CFAI will provide a complementary copy to
   those fire agencies that have previously received the self-assessment
   manual. USFA will provide one copy of the RHAVE program to fire chiefs
   upon written request and must be on department letterhead.

   To order, submit requests in writing to the USFA Publications Center,
   16825 South Seton Avenue, Emmitsburg, MD 21727 or fax (301) 447-1213.
   For additional information visit the USFA web site at
   www.usfa.fema.gov.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: November 19, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
