http://www.neh.gov/news/humanities/2002-01/perspectives.html

                                Perspectives
                       A Conversation with Bruce Cole

     In December, Bruce Cole was sworn in as the Eighth Chairman of the
    National Endowment for the Humanities. He speaks with Editor Mary Lou
      Beatty about his academic career and his views on the humanities.

    Q: Youre beginning a new chapter after twenty-eight years of teaching
      and writing about the history of art. What drew you to the field?

    Bruce Cole: The history of art is attractive for a couple of reasons:
   One is that you deal with works of art on an aesthetic level, you talk
   about them in terms of their form. You also talk about them in terms of
    how that form creates their content. Then you get to explore various
    topics, including whether content arises from the societal matrix in
                          which objects were made.

    Q: What does art history tell us that other kinds of history cannot?

    Cole: I see works of art as primary documents of a civilization. The
   written document tells you one thing, but a painting or a sculpture or
    a building tells you something else. They are both primary documents,
                 but they tell you things in different ways.

           Q: When did you first become interested in art history?

   Cole: I was in my freshman year in college. I had no experience at all
      with art -- or very little, I should say. My experience consisted
    mainly of my Aunt Gertrude walking me around the Cleveland Museum of
   Art. I remember pretty much the moment that it happened, being in class
   and opening up this book -- I think I still have it -- and seeing this
     painting. It was The Meeting of Saint Anthony and Saint Paul. That
   sparked me to take some courses in Italian Renaissance history, where I
   studied with Marvin Becker, who is one of the most inspiring teachers I
   ever had, which in turn led me to Florentine history and the history of
                               Florentine art.

        Q: What was your particular fascination with the Renaissance?

   Cole: The Renaissance is one of the most important eras in the history
    of not only Western civilization but world civilization. It is where
    the modern world was born, although this is a debated interpretation.
   So many aspects of our world come from the Renaissance. Pretty much up
    to the twentieth century, artists worked within the boundaries first
                       staked out by the Renaissance.

        Q: Are there more great artists from that period than others?

        Cole: They were thick on the ground in Renaissance Italy. The
   Renaissance, up until about 1500, believed that great artists could be
    made. So in the Renaissance what you had were workshops presided over
      by a master who trained apprentices. The apprentices became very
   conversant with their materials. They knew how to draw extremely well.
                They knew how to narrate in paint or bronze.

                   Q: But geniuses did come out of there.

    Cole: Exactly. You have Giotto and Donatello and Titian, who were all
   trained in that system. But around 1500 the idea of the genius began to
   arise, mainly with Michelangelo, but also with Titian and a few others.
   Again, that was the sort of nascent idea that we have now of the great
     artist being born a great artist and developing his or her talents,
   which culminates in somebody like Jackson Pollock, which is definitely
                           not a Renaissance idea.

   Q: I guess all art reflects the norms of its society. Does the changing
                   society have artists fall out of favor?

    Cole: Oh, yes. One of the best examples is an artist named Francesco
   Francia, who was an important painter in the Renaissance. He was given
   a biography in Giorgio Vasaris Lives of the Artists. The high point of
   his reputation was probably in the nineteenth century, when he was very
   much admired by the Victorians. Today nobody knows anything about him.

                         Q: Will he come back again?

     Cole: Who knows? The other good case is Raphael, who was certainly
     considered one of the summits of art for many years, up to the late
   nineteenth or early twentieth century. Raphael is a figure who isnt as
       appreciated today as he once was. His art is an art of calm and
       equipoise and harmony and beauty, and those qualities are often
   undervalued today. I think that revivalists often revive artists whose
                         aims are similar to theirs.

            Q: So art history itself has changed over the years.

   Cole: It has definitely changed. It is much more interested in relating
              art to society than it was, say, fifty years ago.

               Q: Are there new criteria then for judging it?

   Cole: There are a number of levels. You can look at art in terms of its
   univer-sal language, which is form. All artists deal with the same sort
     of formal properties: composition and line and color and the like.
    Artists from very diverse art-producing cultures deal with this. Art
                   can be appreciated on that level alone.

                             Q: The form itself.

   Cole: Yes. If youre looking at a Japanese print or a baroque painting,
     that language of form is, I think, identical. Whats done with it is
                                 different.

    The other way art can be appreciated, of course, is to understand how
    art arises from the culture that produces it and reflects it in a way
   that is different from reading a primary document or some other kind of
        primary source.That, I think, enriches the first part of it.

     Lets go back to the Renaissance for a second. In the middle of the
    seventeenth century, artists would work on commission. Therefore some
   of the fundamental aspects of what they were going to do were dictated
                            by these commissions.

      If a Renaissance artist was commissioned to do an altarpiece, the
      location for that would already be determined, the contract would
    specify the subject matter and the size and the materials to be used.
     Already that is a reflection of what this particular artists patron
     wanted. Then, when the work was actu-ally done, it would be closely
      tied -- lets say in this case an altarpiece -- to the Mass and an
    elucidation of what was happening in the Mass. It also would probably
              reflect something about the patron and his world.

    But more than that, if you look at the history of the Renaissance, or
    the history of any particular period, you can see that certain things
   change over time and reflect the changing views of both the patron and
                                 the artist.

    Look at portraits and how they evolved. First of all, you dont really
    have any portraits after the Roman Empire until the beginning of the
   Renaissance. The Renaissance produced portraits in great numbers and I
   think that says something about the Renaissance view of the individual.
      Around 1500 you even start to get self-portraits and portraits of
     artists. That says something about the role of the artist. Artists
    moved from becoming anonymous craftsmen to having a distinct persona.
     They became valued in society, and therefore they were permissible
                     subjects for portraits themselves.

   So, yes. The changing ideas and values in culture are reflected in what
    artists do: the subject matter, the treatment of that subject matter.
    Thats why a baroque painting looks very different from something done
                          in the twentieth century.

               Q: What kind of things do you collect yourself?

    Cole: The things I collect most avidly are nineteenth-century bronzes
     after classical prototypes -- very specialized. Most of these were
       bought by travelers to Italy or by people who wanted to have a
        small-scale reproduction of some famous classical sculpture.

                          Q: Who are the sculptors?

   Cole: They are mostly anonymous. A lot of them are French and Italian.
     I have just a couple of signed pieces. They are not something that
                      people really collect very much.

   I wanted to say something more about the Renaissance. I always thought
    Id like to write a book called The Other Renaissance. Our idea of the
    Renais-sance as taking place in Florence, Venice, and Rome was really
    constructed by Giorgio Vasari, who wrote this enormously influential
   book, The Lives of the Most Famous Painters, Sculptors and Architects,
     first in 1550 and then, in an enlarged edition, in 1568. Vasari was
   Tuscan and he was the greatest public relations person for Florence. He
   gave us our notion of the Renaissance as centered in Florence and Rome,
    with a nod to Venice. Thats why when you go to Italy today and you go
    to Florence, you cant get anywhere near the David, or you are crushed
    by tourists in the Sistine Chapel. But if you go anywhere else, like
     Modena or Ferrara or Parma, which were all important centers of the
    Renaissance, you find almost no one. Our ideas about the Renaissance
    are very much conditioned - including mine -- by Vasari. I think the
   whole idea of the Renaissance probably needs to be rethought a little,
     and that these other centers should probably be seen as being more
                              worthy of study.

        Q: In your book, The Informed Eye, you make some interesting
   selections. When you address contemporary art, whose work do you like?

    Cole: Now what do you mean by contemporary? Lets say art from 1950 to
                              the present day.

      David Smith would definitely be one of my choices. I think hes a
    sculptor of great importance. I think Rothko was a superb painter. I
      like William Bailey. Hes one of the revivalists of the figurative
                   painting. Im a big fan of Henry Moore.

    Why did I pick those things in The Informed Eye? I think principally
                         because I really like them.

     Q: I cant believe that youre saying in effect, I know what I like.

   Cole: Its very difficult to know why you like something. There are lots
    of things that come into play when you make these decisions. Certain
    works are much more compelling than others, and they draw you towards
    them and make you want to know more about them. The art historian and
    critic Kenneth Clark had a wonderful analysis of this. You first are
   drawn to them in some way. Its very difficult to describe this, because
    this is not a process of verbal communication. They dont speak to you
                                  in words.

     That is one of the problems about being an art historian: trying to
   find verbal equivalents to describe and then understand something that
   is completely nonverbal. When artists create these things, they dont do
   it verbally. They dont think a painting through in sentences. There is
    some kind of attraction, but its very difficult to put that in words.

   I guess it must be the combination of all their formal elements and the
   subject. Then I think what happens is that you want to know more about
    it in terms of its component parts. This is true for any work of art,
   from any culture. So you want to analyze it formally, you want to know
      something about its subject, you want to know something about its
    artist. You want to take it apart and try to understand it on another
    level. But then I think, you return -- enriched -- to the compelling
                          attraction of that work.

   Now, here is the tension of some art history. It is possible to look at
      a work, lets say a Rembrandt self-portrait, and see it in two not
     necessarily incompatible ways. One is to see it as a timeless work,
       especially with Rembrandt, because his work expresses all these
   universals, and it is as contemporary as anything can possibly be. The
       other way is to look at it historically, to see Rembrandt as a
    personality, Rembrandt embedded in seventeenth-century Amsterdam. The
            greater the work of art is, the more timeless it is.

        Q: You are both a professor of art history and a professor of
         comparative literature. How do these two disciplines mesh?

        Cole: Very well. Last fall I team-taught a course with Julia
    Bondanella. We alternated lectures. I talked about art and its formal
     properties and its relation to Renaissance society and Julia talked
     about Renaissance cultureliterature, poetry, and the like. We laid
     these side by side and then made interconnections. We talked about
        Giotto and Dante, who are contemporaries. We talked about the
   rationality of early Renaissance art and the culture of the Florentine
                           merchants and bankers.

   Q: I know that you bring the work of the art scholar to the classroom.
                     What does the classroom do for you?

   Cole: This is a great question. Ive thought about this and I remember a
     plaque that was on a friends wall. It says, Teaching is to research
      like sin is to confession: without one, you dont have the other.

                              Q: Is that true?

    Cole: Thats absolutely true. Theres a kind of symbiotic relationship
       between teaching and research. Many of my ideas that are later
   incorporated in my writings arise from my teaching. Teaching forces you
     to condense and articulate what youre thinking and what your basic
                    ideas are about what youre teaching.

           Q: Has anyone ever just turned your ideas topsy-turvy?

   Cole: You mean a student? Not topsy-turvy, but certainly I love it when
                           students challenge me.

      Often the students, graduate and undergraduate, do give you a new
                                perspective.

     Really good researchers are always questioning their own ideas and
    analyzing them. And I also think a component of good research is just
       pure enthusiasm and the love of your subject and the desire to
     communicate it as widely as possible. Thats why I think often good
                       researchers make good teachers.

      Q: You were co-president and a founder of the Association for Art
            History? What were your goals in forming this group?

   Cole: Our goals were to offer another professional association for art
     historians and graduate students and critics and people who work in
     museums. The organization continues, under different leadership. I
   think that art history starts with objects and it goes off to all sorts
        of interesting and diverse places, but it is fundamentally an
         object-based discipline. We were anxious to encourage that.

   Q: Lets move to your new world here at the Endowment. NEH is not really
     new to you. You had a fellowship in 1971 to work on The Origins and
   Development of Early Florentine Painting. Youve been a panelist in the
       merit review system. You served for seven years on the National
   Council, which advises the chairman. What have those experiences taught
                          you about the Endowment?

   Cole: That the Endowment is an essential and important part of American
   society and that it is a superbly functioning organization, staffed by
      a highly dedicated professional group of people. Thats one of the
   reasons I was anxious to get back to the Endowment. It has a very fine
    open and democratic peer review system that helps us to fund the most
                            excellent proposals.

     Q: What do you see as the balance between research, say, and public
                                programming?

    Cole: I think of the Endowment as doing many things, from supporting
   works like the Sumerian dictionary to trying to improve the humanities
    in the K-12 programs. The Endowment does all these things, and I dont
   see that theres any kind of formula for a balance between them. I think
   that the Endowment should support the best projects that will have the
               largest impact in whatever way is appropriate.

      In my own work, Ive done books that were aimed specifically at a
       scholarly audience, like my first book or my second. But then I
    realized very early on that I also wanted to communicate with a much
                              larger audience.

    So I would say many of my books have been aimed at what I would call
                             the general reader.

       Q: As with The Informed Eye. But I was surprised that you were
    discussing Dorothea Lange or David Smith. You were branching out into
                              unexpected areas.

   Cole: Im very enthusiastic about a lot of those artists and that led me
   to co-author The Art of the Western World and write The Informed Eye. I
        guess the older I get, the more I am interested in trying to
             disseminate that knowledge to more and more people.

      Thats another thing, of course, that the Endowment does well. It
    supports -- and should support -- highly scholarly projects aimed at
    other scholars, but it should also support the broad dissemination of
                               the humanities.

    Q: Do you see an expanded role for the humanities in the aftermath of
                  the terrorist attacks of last September?

       Cole: The horrific events of September 11 have underscored the
    importance of the humanities in understanding our own nation and the
     world. Defending our homeland requires not only successful military
     campaigns; it also depends on citizens understanding their history,
    their institutions, and their ideals. The humanities show us what it
     means to be an American, and why Americas ideals are worth fighting
    for. NEHs goal of preserving and promoting the best of the humanities
                                  is vital.

   Q: What are your expectations for your tenure here? What do you hope to
                                  achieve?

   Cole: The Endowment is not me. I see it as a collaboration among all of
    us. Each part of NEH supports important work. My years as a professor
    have demonstrated to me how crucial NEH fellowships and seminars and
   editions are. As someone who has been involved in the design of school
     cur-riculum, I can see the good work NEH has done on all education
                           levels, including K-12.

    As we talked about earlier, I have spent a considerable time involved
   with NEH. I learned a lot. I know the role films and museum exhibitions
   and other programs for the public can play in spreading the humanities.
     Ive sat in on National Council recommendations about preserving the
     knowledge in the fragile books and newspapers that record our early
   history. Ive learned the long-range view of providing infrastructure --
     sometimes buildings, sometimes long-range teaching programs -- that
                      will help these projects endure.

   All of these activities have my strongest support and encouragement. I
    also want to work closely with the state humanities councils, who are
    so excellent at providing humanities programs on the local level. Our
      partnership with the councils is something I want to strengthen.

   Q: A final question. I understand you have an interesting pastime. You
           ride a motorcycle. Where did this fascination develop?

   Cole: When I was a teenager, I had motorcycles. Then, at a certain age,
    I gave them up. As I got older, well, I never lost interest and would
      always wistfully look at motorcycles when they drove by. I always
    thought Id like to have one again. Recently, I decided if I didnt get
       one, then I never would. So unbeknownst to my wife, I went to a
   motorcycle dealer and bought a small used one, which my neighbor drove
     home for me. Then I got on it and I realized that its like riding a
      bicycle, you know? After a couple of months, I decided I needed a
              larger and faster one, so I bought a Suzuki 750.

                          Q: Do you ride to class?

     Cole: I have ridden to class -- not often. I like to get out on the
    open highway. Riding a motorcycle is great. I am so intent on keeping
   the rubber side down that I have virtually no thought processes, except
   that. So when I come back from a ride, its very refreshing. Its like it
       has washed your brain. It gives you a whole other perspective.

           Q: Are you going to bring the motorcycle to Washington?

                      Cole: No. Well, maybe eventually.

   Bruce Cole, a scholar of Renaissance art, is the Eighth Chairman of the
    National Endowment for the Humanities. He comes to the Endowment from
   Indiana University in Bloomington, where he has been a professor of art
                   history and of comparative literature.

    Cole has written fourteen books, many of them about the Renaissance.
    They include The Renaissance Artist at Work; Sienese Painting in the
   Age of the Renaissance; Italian Art, 1250-1550: The Relation of Art to
   Life and Society; and Art of the Western World: From Ancient Greece to
   Post-Modernism. His most recent book is The Informed Eye: Understanding
    Masterpieces of Western Art. Cole, 63, was born in Ohio and attended
     Case Western Reserve University. He earned his masters degree from
    Oberlin College and his doctorate in 1969 from Bryn Mawr College. For
    two years he was the William E. Suida Fellow at the Kunsthistorisches
      Institut in Florence. He has held fellowships and grants from the
     Guggenheim Foundation, American Council of Learned Societies, Kress
     Foundation, American Philosophical Society, Center for Medieval and
    Renaissance Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, and
                   National Endowment for the Humanities.

      His relationship with the Endowment goes back to 1971 when he was
    awarded a fellowship to do research on The Origins and Development of
     Early Florentine Painting. He has served as a panelist in NEHs peer
    review system, and in 1992 was named by President George H.W. Bush to
      the National Council on the Humanities, the Endowments twenty-six
              member advisory board. He served for seven years.

      At Indiana, Cole has been professor of Fine Arts and Comparative
   Literature and chairman of the Department of the History of Art at the
   Hope School of Fine Arts. He is a corresponding member of the Accademia
     Senese degli Intronati, the oldest learned society in Europe, and a
    member of the Honorary Board of Directors of the American Friends of
     Florentine Museums. He is a founder and former co-president of the
                        Association for Art History.

    He and his wife Doreen live in the District of Columbia and have two
                               grown children.
     __________________________________________________________________

                     Humanities, January/February 2002
