http://www.buffalo.feb.gov/buffwp.html

   [buffeb.gif] 1998 Buffalo, NY FEB Work Plan

                         1998 Work Plan Initiatives


   [blue.gif] Communicate-- FEBs inform member Agencies of each other's
   initiatives and successes, and the local community of national policies
   and priorities.

   checkred.gif (260 bytes) The FEB will continue to coordinate the annual
   Hammer Awards Program with National Performance Review Team
   representatives. This event will be the major media event of the year
   with the involvement of all-major news offices and newspapers. A high
   profile personality from Washington will be the keynote speaker. The
   Hammer Awards Ceremony will be scheduled for within one a month of the
   NPR identifying Hammer Award recipients.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to sponsor a high profile
   Government awards program consistent with the celebration of Public
   Service Recognition Week and will recruit the active participation of a
   Blue Ribbon Panel comprised of TV News Anchors to ensure press
   coverage. The event will include a gratis breakfast and an award for
   all award recipients on April 29, 1998.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will also request that member Agencies identify
   outstanding people in their organizations and forward such information
   to the FEB office for publication in the FEB Quarterly Newsletter.

   [checkred.gif] The Buffalo FEB will continue to share interagency
   initiatives with member Agencies and innovations published in the
   National performance Review Team Newsletters.

   [checkred.gif] The Executive Director will continue to develop and
   circulate a FEB Newsletter to share information with member Agencies on
   significant changes that affect the Federal workforce. A quarterly
   calendar will be included in the newsletter.

   [checkred.gif] The Executive Director will coordinate with public
   Service Television executives to develop a Public Information Program
   with a primary focus on the services of Member Agencies and changes in
   policy that may affect services to the public.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will sponsor a minimum of four Full Board
   meetings at member Agency sites to include mission briefings and
   facility tours to share innovative initiatives.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will annually update the Blue Book Pages to
   continue to insure that we foster a user-friendly system to access
   Government services.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to coordinate a Memorial Service
   on April 17, 1998 in memory of the Oklahoma City tragedy. Fresh flowers
   will be planted around the Memorial Tree and the Bronze Memorial
   Plaque. All local elected officials will be invited along with all
   major local media exponents providing the Federal Protective Service
   supports a public ceremony.
   [checkred.gif] The FEB will host a special program for Women's Equality
   Day to honor the Women of the Year. A luncheon will be developed with a
   high profile speaker to attract the local media. All local press
   offices will be issued releases.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will coordinate with Immigration and
   Naturalization Service on the installation of new computers to
   establish a home page on the website to include such information as
   mission a statement, organization chart, Agency Phone Directory and
   other appropriate information to serve our customers.

   [blue.gif] Reduce Costs and Improve Efficiency - FEB's bring together
   agencies with common goal so that efforts are complimentary.

   [checkred.gif] The Buffalo FEB in coordination with the Department of
   veteran's Affairs, V. A. Medical Center, Buffalo will continue to
   support member Agency agreements with the Career Transition Center.
   This program is in partnership with the New York State Department of
   Labor. The Center will provide testing, counseling and job placement
   information to Federal employees.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will sponsor a minimum of three major
   interagency training initiatives to include a Retirement seminar,
   Workman's Compensation Training and a Financial Planning Seminar. In
   addition, the FEB will sponsor a series of security Awareness Programs
   and Equal Employment opportunity Training.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to sponsor an Interagency Health
   Fairs as a cost-effective means to minimize the disruption to member
   Agencies while serving the needs of the Federal work force. The Fair
   will take place during annual Open Season in November.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to recognize the contributions of
   all ethnic groups in our country through the development of a Cultural
   Diversity Celebration. This event is scheduled for September of 1998.

   [checkred.gif] The Buffalo FEB will coordinate with the Pittsburgh FEB
   with respect to assessing the tangible benefits of enjoining with their
   cooperative Administrative Support Unit (CASU). A proposal will be
   developed for Full Board vote following a presentation to the
   membership.


   [blue.gif] Facilitate Service Delivery - FEB's draw together Agencies
   with common clients so that Government services are convenient
   for customers.

   [checkred.gif] Continue to support the Customer Service Center which is
   comprised of several member Agencies, New York State Departments and
   over 30 private sector agencies and community organizations. This
   enterprise is a cost-effective plan to assist aspiring entrepreneurs in
   establishing businesses. The primary member Agencies supporting this
   venture are the Internal Revenue Service, Small Business Administration
   and the V. A. Regional Office, Buffalo. This One Stop Shopping Center
   has been in operation for over five years.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to coordinate with the department
   of Housing and Urban Development in support of our Empowerment Zone. A
   special committee will meet regularly to identify generic issues and
   capabilities of member Agencies to insure that priority issues in the
   community are identified and promoted through meaningful initiatives.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will regularly apprise the citizens of Western
   New York of available services through the Public Access time on local
   cable networks and articles submitted to the Buffalo News and other
   community newspapers.

   [blue.gif] Partner with community groups - FEBs partner with community
   groups to solve problems.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to support goals of the
   Buffalo-area Engineering Awareness for Minorities (BEAM) through the
   participation of the Executive Director as a member of the Board of
   Directors and through the solicitation of in-kind services of FEB
   member Agencies.

   [checkred.gif] Continue to support the combined Federal Campaign
   through the solicitation of a Local Federal Coordinating committee
   (LFCC) and the selection of a principal campaign Funding organization
   (PCFO). The FEB will also administer to all facets of the campaign
   strategy to include recruitment of Loaned Associates, Key-persons, a
   campaign Kick-off, Leadership Giving Program and an Agency Awards
   ceremony.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to support the Transfer of Excess
   Federal computers to Schools in the Western New York Area. A memorandum
   will be distributed to all member Agencies soliciting their support and
   active participation. Results of participation will be reported in the
   FEB newsletter.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to invite City, State and County
   officials to serve on the Federal Executive Board to establish
   partnerships on generic issues which address the need of, and serve the
   best interests of all of our citizens.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to support the mayor's Summer
   Youth Program which provides economically disadvantaged students an
   opportunity to be employed with a participating member Agency for six
   weeks each summer break. The FEB will also provide workshops for the
   summer youth on a variety of subjects to include money management, drug
   awareness, management of time, diversity in the work force and aids
   prevention. All workshops are voluntary.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to support the annual food,
   clothing and toy drive, the "News Neediest Fund", which is conducted
   between the Thanksgiving and Christmas Holidays annually.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to assist Meals on Wheels with
   respect to recruiting volunteers to deliver goods and services to
   disabled senior citizens and non-ambulatory persons in our communities.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to support the Welfare To Work
   (WTW) initiative by developing skills training sessions for all WTW
   hires. This will be an interagency initiative designed to meet the
   spirit and letter of WTW guidelines.

   [blue.gif] Coordinate Emergency Services - FEB'S stand ready to
   marshal resources of the entire Federal community, whether to aid
   a member Agency or to assist the citizenry in a public emergency.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will contact all member Agency Heads and request
   an update of names and telephone exchanges of key member Agency
   officials that would be activated in the event an emergency. Two copies
   of this confidential document will be retained, one in the FEB office
   in the Dulski Federal Building and the other in the office of the
   Federal Bureau of Investigation which is located outside of the Federal
   Building.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will establish an Interagency Disaster Planning
   Council (IDPC) which will be comprised of Emergency Management
   Officials of member Agencies. The IDPC will be tasked to formulate an
   Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) which would constitute a combined
   Federal effort to prepare for a variety of potential disasters and an
   action plan to effectively provide oversight in assistance efforts.

   [checkred.gif] The FEB will continue to coordinate the Emergency
   Weather Dismissal Plan (EDP). Care will be taken to update the plan to
   incorporate recent information including contact persons and telephone
   exchanges.


   [blue.gif] Other Special Initiatives

   In addition to the aforementioned programs, the Buffalo Federal
   Executive Board will continue to develop the following employee
   centered initiatives:

   [checkred.gif] A Federal Executive Board golf tournament
   [checkred.gif] Security and Personal Safety Seminars
   [checkred.gif] Tenant Committee Meetings
   [checkred.gif] Security Council Meetings
   [checkred.gif] Publish updates on changes in OPH regulations
   [checkred.gif] Report on Congressional Bills that may affect the work
   force
   [checkred.gif] Share information regarding job vacancies
   [checkred.gif] Emergency Evacuation Building Plan
   [checkred.gif] Booking of conference rooms
   [checkred.gif] Management of the inter-office mailing system
   [checkred.gif] Information and guidance to all public inquiries
   [checkred.gif] Bloodmobile drives in the Dulski Building
   [checkred.gif] Coordination with the NPR on the development of FEB
   performance based standards

   [ Home ]
