http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects.html

   link to USGS

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   GIS, Imagery and Base maps
     aerial photograph Aerial and Satellite Imagery
   Cataloging all existing imagery, the USGS will also use its experience
   to ensure new imagery is consistent, useable, and accessible.
     Gis image GIS Products
   GIS technology can be a powerful tool for compiling and analyzing
   information needed by municipal and national agencies for disaster
   mitigation, preparedness, and response.
     Topo Project image Topographic Base Maps
   The USGS will provide access to topographic maps required for showing
   topography, drainage, location of roads, bridges, and other
   infrastructure.
   Hazard and Risk Maps
     flood Flood Hazard Mapping
   The USGS will create maps depicting the depth and aerial extent of the
   estimated 50-year flood. The maps will be used in planning of
   developments and design of infrastructure in the floodplain.
     landslide Landslide Hazard Mapping
   Conducting landslide inventories, the USGS will map landslides of all
   types in selected areas and create maps from the information gathered.
     [volcano_small.gif] Volcano Hazard Mapping
   The USGS will construct digital volcanic hazard maps accompanied by
   full documentation of the continuing hazard, recommendations, and
   emergency preparedness recommendations.
   Hydrology and Groundwater
     groundwater Groundwater Availability
   The USGS will do a hydrogeological survey that focuses on water
   recharge areas,train and equip municipal personnel, hold workshops, and
   create a database of the gathered information.
     hydrologic Hydrologic Databases
   To provide information for the design of hydraulic structures and land
   use planning, the USGS is proposing a national database of hydrologic
   information.
     streamgages Stream Gage Networks
   The USGS proposes to work with Central American countries to identify a
   small number of stations near critical economic and population centers
   as strategic flood-warning locations.
   Impacts and Recovery in the Coastal Environment
     coral Assess Damage to Coral Reefs
   USGS will assess damage to coral reefs by Hurricane Mitch. The
   assessment will include data collection on the extent of coral
   bleaching, black band disease, etc.
     coastal forest Hurricane Damage to Coastal Forests
   Coastal forests represent a very important ecosystem, offering many
   valuable environmental and economic services such as aquifer recharge,
   flood protection, shoreline protection, carbon storage, timber and
   habitat for native, endangered and commercially-important animal
   species.
     mapping coastal habitats Mapping Coastal Habitats
   Coastal habitats in Honduras suffered both direct and indirect impacts
   due to the passage of Hurricane Mitch in late October 1998. These
   impacts have altered or destroyed various components of natural
   resources, including, for example, coral reefs, mangroves, shrimp farms
   and agricultural exploitations.
     mangrove Impacts and Recovery to Mangrove and Seagrass Ecosystems
   Mangroves and seagrasses on the Caribbean coasts of Honduras and
   Guatemala suffered direct impacts due to the passage of Hurricane
   Mitch. Nearly all mangroves on the island of Guanaja died as a result
   of wind and wave-induced defoliation, uprooting, flooding, or
   combinations thereof.
     nuisance crustacean Impacts to Shrimp and Nuisance Crustaceans
   Unusually high storm precipitation, accompanied by wind-exacerbated
   destruction of vegetation and downslope slumping of topsoils, produced
   extremely high sediment loads in flood waters of drainage basins
   feeding the Gulf of Fonseca.
     sediments Integrative Mangrove Management
   Mangroves on the Pacific coast of Honduras provide valuable
   environmental services that benefit the sustainability of a diverse
   range of human activities. The maintenance of estuarine water quality,
   for example, is regulated through sedimentation and nutrient uptake in
   the mangrove forests.
     nuisance crustacean Native Shrimp Populations
   The flooding that occurred as a result of Hurricane Mitch was reported
   to have caused impacts to both natural and hatchery-reared shrimp
   populations on the Pacific coast of Honduras. Through discussions with
   the shrimp aquaculture industry shortly after Hurricane Mitch, we
   learned that many shrimp ponds had been washed out and the shrimp stock
   lost into the adjacent estuaries.
     nuisance crustacean Water Quality and its Relationship to Shrimp
   Mariculture
   The extreme rainfall that occurred in the Pacific watershed of
   Honduras, in conjunction with wind-caused destruction of vegetated
   surfaces, led to numerous landslides, debris flows and downstream
   flooding. In many areas flood waters changed courses of natural
   distributaries entering the Gulf.
   Internet Clearinghouse
     internet Internet Clearinghouse
   To develop an efficient mechanism and capacity for locating and
   dispersing geospatial information for natural resource and disaster
   data to institutions and other interested parties in the region.


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Wednesday, January 02, 2002
