http://www.lcfea.usda.gov/health_fair.html

   Larimer County Federal Executive Association {short description of
   image}
   health fair banner LCFEA Employee
   Support Committee

   {short description of image}


   1998 Larimer County FEA Federal Health Fair

   The FEA sponsored a Health Fair for Larimer County Federal Employees,
   contractors, and their families on September 24, 1998 at the Lincoln
   Center in Fort Collins. This year, the event also included City of Fort
   Collins employees and their family members. As a result, more people
   benefited from the information and services offered at the Health Fair
   and more health-related vendors were interested in attending.

   Over 200 people representing Federal employees and 300 people from the
   City of Fort Collins attended. 35 vendors provided a variety of
   health-related services and information. Some of topics and services
   offered included massage, physical therapy, foot and ankle care, flu
   shots, health club services, and breast cancer awareness. Gibbs bagels
   were provided to encourage people to have a healthy snack and visit
   more of the vendors and exhibits.

   In a departure from past Health Fairs, a blood draw was organized
   before the Health Fair so that people who were interested could have
   their blood test results by the time of the Health Fair. The City of
   Fort Collins arranged for professionals to provide lectures on
   interpreting the blood test results were also available to answer
   questions. 158 people participated in these blood tests, which were
   provided at a reduced cost by the Poudre Valley Hospital Express Lab.

   As an added incentive to attend, door prizes were given away by random
   drawing. Televisions, portable music players and smaller items were won
   by attendees.

   The Health Fair was deemed a success and plans are underway to make it
   bigger and better for this year!

   {short description of image}

   Home Mission LCFEA Officers Membership By-laws Training Opportunities
   Upcoming Events

   {short description of image}

   http://www. lcfea.usda.gov/employee.html
   We welcome your comments and suggestions about these pages. Please
   direct them to: ehamilton@tasc.usda.gov
   Web site last updated: 02/07/1999
