http://runiicomputing.fnal.gov/runIIdocs/pmp.ps

   Project Management Plan for the CDF, DO/, CD Joint Run II Offline
   Computing Project January 13, 1999 The task of developing the software
   and acquiring and commissioning the hardware for the Run II offline
   analysis is a massive undertaking. In scope, complexity, personnel, and
   budget it is equivalent to roughly half of one of the detector upgrade
   construction projects. A significant part of the effort is the sole
   responsibility of each experimental collaboration. Other parts,
   including the specification, procurement, and implementation of
   hardware and commercial software and some of the software development
   will be carried out by a collaboration of CDF, DO/ , and the Fermilab
   Computing Division (CD). This part of the project goes under the name
   "CDF, DO/ , CD Joint Run II Offline Computing Project" or, for short,
   the "Joint Offline Project". The purpose of this document is to
   describe the project management and oversight of the Joint Offline
   Project. Section 1 discusses the Joint Offline Project in the context
   of the whole Run II software effort and presents its motivation, goals,
   and history. It also discusses some special considerations which
   influence and, in some cases, constrain the approach that is taken to
   management; Section 2 presents the top few levels of the Work Breakdown
   Structure (WBS); Section 3 describes the overall management plan
   including the key management roles and organizations and the formal
   instruments that will be used in project management; Section 4
   describes the mechanisms for project change control and section 5 those
   for project oversight; and, finally, Section 6 explains how the current
   plan can evolve to meet the changes in the needs of the Joint Offline
   Project as it progresses. 1 Introduction to the Joint Project It is
   essential for CDF, DO/ , and FNAL that the upcoming collider run
   realize its full physics potential. To do this, new software must be
   developed and new computing hardware must be acquired and commissioned
   to run it on. The data volumes for Run II are very large - of order of
   1 Terabyte per calendar day per experiment. Reconstructing, storing,
   accessing, tracking, and analyzing 1 this quantity of information in a
   timely manner represents the offline analysis challenge for Run II. 1.1
   Special Considerations The offline problem, in addition to its sheer
   magnitude, is complicated by several factors, some of which are related
   to the nature of computing and some of which are related to the
   collaborative manner in which large HEP experiments are carried out:
   ffl Requirements are difficult to establish in a `research
   environment'. The system must be able to adapt to new experimental
   circumstances and theoretical or analysis insights. Since computer
   programs are, at least in principle, easier to modify and extend than
   hardware, sometimes it is harder to converge to firm decisions. ffl
   Software practices - programming techniques and languages, software
   engineering methodologies, and supporting standards - are all in a
   state of rapid change. In particular, the move from procedural to
   object-oriented programming has caused significant portions of our
   successful legacy programming base to be abandoned and it now needs to
   be replaced with programs written in the new paradigm. ffl A
   multiplicity of hardware platforms and operating systems makes the
   problem of developing and validating programs more complicated and
   time-consuming and introduces portability and maintenance problems. The
   fact that standards may not exist at all or still be evolving
   exacerbates this problem. However, support of multiple platforms is
   necessary to reap the economic benefits of an evolving hardware market.
   ffl New hardware, while offering new power, may have problems of
   reliability and robustness and may have compatibility and
   interoperability problems. ffl The offline system must interact with
   university supplied equipment on site and at remote institutions. While
   this brings additional resources to bear on the computing problem, in
   many cases the choice of equipment is dictated not by Fermilab but by
   the institutions' local circumstances, including their non-Fermilab
   commitments, rather than global considerations and results in a
   proliferation of approaches that complicates the support and
   maintenance issues for the collaborations and for Fermilab. ffl It has
   long been understood that when software development projects get large
   they are dominated by complicated communications problems since any
   part of a system may interact with any other part. This can result in
   complex debugging and maintenance problems. Management of complexity at
   this scale is a challenge which requires some formality and structure.
   2 ffl As discussed below, in order to reduce the resources required by
   the project to a reasonable level, significant collaboration and
   commonality of approach is being encouraged between CDF and DO/ . While
   this is highly desirable, it does complicate the process of arriving at
   decisions. In particular, to even have a reasonable chance to achieve
   commonality, the two experiments must be able to arrive at decisions at
   roughly the same time and this is not always possible. These factors
   have been taken into account in developing the project management plan
   described below. This project differs from the Run II detector upgrade
   projects in its explicit joint character; the central computing
   hardware used for offline production and analysis computing in Run II
   will be purchased and maintained, and its control software and support
   personnel will be provided, by the CD for both experiments. Joint
   procurements, and mutually consistent if not identical solutions, are
   thus both more obtainable and more necessary than in the detector
   upgrade projects. The project management plan reflects this necessity
   in making the top of the reporting chain a steering committee staffed
   by the three collaborating organizations CD, CDF, and DO/. This
   committee is an essential forum for achieving joint decision making,
   and full participation by the two experimental collaborations in the
   relevant CD project activities. To simplify directorate oversight, the
   PMP also provides a Project Office whose task coordinators can handle
   the day-to-day reporting requirements with more efficiency than a
   committee could. The plan also must be viewed as a `baseline' that can
   be modified and developed as the project itself takes shape and as
   various problems are encountered and overcome. 1.2 Objectives and
   Benefits The motivations for having a joint offline project are the
   following: ffl There are strong similarities between the offline
   analysis problems of the two experiments in the quantity of data and
   the requirements for reconstruction CPU cycles and data access. ffl The
   two collaborations already use many tools provided and supported by the
   CD. ffl At the upper end of the analysis chain, both experiments are
   manipulating the same physics objects. They already use common analysis
   tools obtained from Fermilab, CERN, and elsewhere. ffl The
   collaborations use or plan to use many commercial programs aimed at
   solving similar scientific and data management problems. ffl Some
   important problems, such as code management and distribution, are
   almost identical between the two collaborations and can be readily 3
   translated into terms that are familiar to computing professionals and
   do not require detailed `physics knowledge' to work on. ffl Both
   collaborations need similar training in new methods and similar advice
   and consulting support. ffl Neither collaboration feels that they can
   supply all the people needed to provide a smooth and user-friendly
   analysis system and would like to get the help of computing
   professionals in CD to help them with the parts of the offline analysis
   problem that do not require experience in detailed physics and detector
   issues. The Fermilab Directorate expects the Computing Division to
   provide assistance in constructing the offline analysis and to do so in
   a way that uses its resources as efficiently as possible. The Division
   is also charged with proposing a vision for all computing at the
   laboratory and a strategy for achieving that vision. The Run II
   software must be a fully integrated component of that vision. One key
   way to control the resources required to create the kind of offline
   system that will facilitate the physics analysis is to exploit various
   levels of commonality so that each collaboration can benefit from the
   efforts of the other one and both can benefit from the efforts of the
   Computing Division. There are many different levels and types of
   commonality. ffl The most obvious form of commonality is in the
   hardware. By adopting similar hardware solutions and combining them
   into single acquisitions, Fermilab will get the lowest prices, reduce
   the number of people needed to manage the acquisitions, get the most
   leverage out of its support and maintenance personnel, and simplify and
   streamline the interactions with its vendors. ffl Common choices of
   commercial software are also desirable, particularly for the more
   expensive products like high-end database software. Again, we will get
   the best quantity discounts and will leverage consulting, maintenance,
   development, and support staff. ffl Significant leverage can be
   obtained by simply having the same people in CD working on similar
   problems for both experiments. For example, there could emerge two
   somewhat different approaches to data access but by having both
   projects being worked by one development group in CD we are likely to
   get some commonality that would not be present otherwise and at least
   expertise and staff can be shared between the projects. ffl In major
   development projects, it would be ideal if both collaborations could
   agree on a uniform set of requirements that could be addressed by a
   single set of programs (perhaps with some experiment specific
   customizations). This kind of common approach obviously has the
   greatest benefits. 4 While every attempt will be made to bring this
   about, it should be understood from the beginning that it will be the
   hardest to achieve. The two collaborations have different histories,
   experiences, internal organizations, tastes, sociologies, decision
   making processes, and different issues associated with their university
   and foreign collaborators. While commonality is a worthy goal, we have
   to acknowledge that selective diversity also has its virtues. There are
   areas where having two choices available at the Laboratory minimizes
   vulnerability in a very rapidly evolving computing environment.
   Potential sources of high risk are vendor business stability (for both
   hardware and software vendors) or cutting edge technology choices
   (again, in either hardware or software) for our large data handling
   needs. The steering committee provides the forum for evaluating the
   tradeoffs in each area where we have to balance the necessity for
   conserving resources versus the advantages of spreading out the risks.
   1.3 History of the Joint Offline Project This Joint Offline Project
   emerged from a series of discussions that started in late 1995 and
   early 1996. By early 1996, a series of `common interest' areas were
   established which were a subset of the WBS items which now constitute
   the project. As a first attempt at working collaboratively, we defined
   a `configuration management' project which quickly converged to a
   similar approach to version management, software releases, and code
   distribution for CDF and DO/. Another area of activity was related to
   the provision of basic C++ classes that were needed by both
   collaborations for the reconstruction and data analysis. A workshop was
   held to discuss how Fermilab should approach this in December of 1996.
   It was decided to assemble a task force to generate some basic C++
   classes. A steering committee was appointed to guide and oversee the
   project, which began in early 1997. The task force evolved into the
   Fermilab Physics Class Library Project. The Steering Committee
   gradually acquired additional project management and oversight
   responsibilities and became the `Run II CDF-DO/-CD Joint Offline
   Project Steering Committee', whose role and responsibilities are
   described below. In April of 1997, at a meeting called by the Fermilab
   Directorate, and attended by the offline project leaders and
   spokespeople of both collaborations, a project management plan was
   first outlined. The plan presented here is an elaboration of the plan
   presented at that meeting. During this period, several working groups
   were formed to define tasks and develop general requirements for the
   project. A task force called the `Data Access Management Needs
   Assessment Working Group', nicknamed DAMNAG, reviewed the requirements
   for production CPU, data storage and access, and CPU and storage for
   data analysis. They delivered a report that was reviewed 5 and
   accepted, with some comments and reservations, by the two
   collaborations in the spring of 1997 and which was submitted to the
   Fermilab Directorate. Shortly thereafter, the Associate Director for
   Information and Technology at Fermilab set up a review process and
   appointed a review panel to advise the Directorate regarding the Joint
   Offline Project. The first review was held in June of 1997. In the
   summer of 1997, a task force called the `Software Needs Assessment
   Working Group', nicknamed SNAG, identified the programmer and physicist
   resources needed for the project and also began the discussion of the
   costs associated with the acquisition of commercial software. They
   delivered a report which was reviewed and accepted, with various
   comments and reservations, by the two collaborations and submitted to
   the Fermilab Directorate. Based on the needs for Computing
   Professionals identified in the SNAG report, the Fermilab Computing
   Division was reorganized to make sure that adequate human resources
   were available to work on the project and were organized to do so
   effectively. Through the spring and summer of 1997, three models of
   data access were discussed and evaluated at the conceptual level.
   Reports on each model were written by teams including CDF, DO/, and CD
   participants and presented and discussed by the two experiments.
   Several new projects were initiated including the `reconstruction
   pipeline project' or RIP. A high level Work Breakdown Structure was
   also developed and a plan for the first major hardware and software
   procurements began to take shape. A second follow up review was held in
   October of 1997. A written report was produced. At the end of 1997 and
   the beginning of 1998, with the number of projects increasing and the
   first major hardware and software procurements approaching, the group
   formulated the project structure and management plan which is the
   subject of this document. 2 Current Project Definition: The Upper
   Levels of the Work Breakdown Structure The process of defining the
   Joint Offline Project was described above. In general terms, the tasks
   in the Joint Project consist of 1) hardware acquisitions which need to
   be conducted by CD personnel, with the participation of members of CDF
   and DO/; 2) Software license acquisitions which share many of the same
   issues as the hardware; 3) core infrastructure software which can be
   specified in an experiment independent way or involves the manipulation
   of objects that are dictated by general computing or physics
   considerations rather than experimentspecific ones (this, for example,
   includes the Fermilab Physics Class Library); and 4) other programs and
   projects which can be `abstracted' into concepts that 6 are not tightly
   tied to the individual experiments but are shared by experiments of
   this type or scale. (These are the tasks which can best be done in
   common and can most easily be worked on by computing professionals and
   physicists who are not deeply knowledgeable about the details of either
   of the experiments.) The detailed project definitions and staffing
   levels are (or will be) contained in `charges' to project teams,
   project plans, MOUs, and other written agreements or contracts. The
   discussions of the last year have resulted in an upper level Work
   Breakdown Structure (WBS) which defines the general areas covered by
   the project. Some of these projects are underway and additional levels
   of the WBS are available for them. In some cases, various levels of
   plans or MOUs exist. Here, we present only the `top-level' WBS because
   it is closely connected with the way the overall project will be
   managed. WBS Level 1 is the project. Because of the collaborative
   nature of the project it is managed by a steering committee, assisted
   by two Task Coordinators and a project office. These roles are all
   described below. Below this, the Work Breakdown Structure consists of
   the following four major project areas (WBS Level 2) and fifteen major
   projects (WBS Level 3). A WBS Dictionary and diagram appear as an
   appendix to this document. ffl Basic Analysis Infrastructure - Fermilab
   Physics Class Library (a.k.a. ZOOM) - Simulation - Configuration
   Management - Support Databases ffl Mass Storage Systems and Data Access
   - Storage Management - Data Access - Serial Media Working Group - Mass
   Storage System Hardware ffl Reconstruction Systems - Reconstruction
   Farm and Processing Hardware - Networking Hardware - Production
   Management - Reconstruction Input Pipeline ffl Final Physics Analysis
   Support - Physics Analysis Hardware 7 - Physics Analysis and
   Collaborative Support Tools - Visualization These will constitute WBS
   Levels 2 and 3. Each WBS item at Level 2 will have one project
   coordinator whose responsibilities are described below. Each WBS item
   at Level 3 will have a project manager (or possibly co-managers) whose
   responsibilities are described below. 3 The Management Plan This is a
   joint project among three organizations, CDF, DO/, and the Computing
   Division. The reporting, advisory, and oversight roles of the different
   entities are shown in Fig. 1. 3.1 The Run II Joint CDF-DO/-CD Project
   Steering Committee The overall project management will be carried out
   by a steering committee which consists of representatives of DO/ , CDF,
   and the Computing Division. The steering committee will consist of two
   members from DO/ , two members from CDF, and two members from CD. In
   order to insure a smoothly functioning committee, it is permitted, but
   not required, that each regular member have an alternate to substitute
   in his or her absense. Alternates may attend all meetings as observers.
   This committee is responsible for creating and maintaining the WBS and
   for ensuring that it is being properly executed. It appoints the Task
   Coordinators and must concur with the organization of each each major
   project and any major assignments of responsibility by the Task
   Coordinators, including the appointment of Level 2 project area
   coordinators and and Level 3 project managers. It is responsible for
   making sure that each project is defined properly through specification
   of requirements accepted by all three collaborating organizations and
   that the appropriate manpower levels are assigned to it. It is
   responsible for proposing the budget and for monitoring that the money
   is spent in accordance with the approved project plan. It has the
   responsibility for monitoring milestones and recommending the
   adjustment of resources where appropriate. It has the responsibility
   for change control and must approve major new projects and major
   changes to the scope, deliverables, schedule, and resources for all
   major projects. It has the task of setting up reviews and status
   reports to monitor all aspects of the project. It has the
   responsibility to keep FNAL and the CDF and DO/collaborations fully
   informed about the status of the project. All activities are subject to
   the review and oversight of the Fermilab Directorate. 8 The CDF and DO/
   collaborations choose their members of this committee who are then
   appointed by the Fermilab Director. The collaboration members should be
   able to authoritatively represent their organization within this
   committee, specifically to be able to allocate resources, conduct
   discussions, propose solutions, request collaboration input, and most
   especially resolve issues - including review and acceptance of plans -
   related to the Joint Project expeditiously within their collaboration,
   according to its own mechanisms. The Computing Division members will
   include the Division Head and one of the Task Coordinators whose role
   is described below. The Deputy Division Head serves as an alternate to
   the Division Head. The other Task Coordinator will serve as the second
   alternate. The head of the Computing Division has a special role in
   this process in that he/she is responsible for the overall health of
   the lab's experiment computing and must make sure that this project is
   consistent with lab goals and vision for the future. He/she is also the
   line manager who approves the major purchases of hardware and software
   for the project and is accountable for the effective use of CD
   personnel on the project and for the operation and maintenance of all
   hardware and software acquired for the run. Most detailed management
   functions for the CD portion of the project are delegated by the CD
   Head to the Task Coordinators. It is hoped that the committee can reach
   decisions by consensus but if votes need to be taken in the Steering
   Committee, each of the three organizations has one vote. 3.1.1 The Run
   II Joint Offline CDF-DO/-CD Committee This group is an advisory body to
   the Steering Committee. Its function is to provide a forum where issues
   may be discussed and debated in an attempt to reach consensus. The
   status of the ongoing project is also reviewed. Membership is
   determined by the Steering Committee and consists of members from each
   collaborating organization in roughly equal numbers. While not
   officially a decision making body, this committee has proven to be
   important for forming consensus and occasionally `straw polls' are
   taken on the `sense' of the group which then constitute recommendations
   to the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee appoints the
   chairperson or persons and a recording secretary for this meeting. The
   chairperson(s), in consultation with the Steering Committee, call the
   meetings and set the agenda. 3.2 The Run II Task Coordinators and the
   Joint Offline Project Office There will be two Run II Task
   Coordinators. Their role is to carry out the project management and
   coordination activities of the Run II project for the Run II Steering
   Committee and will include 9 ffl Tracking the effort expended on all
   aspects of the project and supervising the preparation of reports for
   the Steering Committee and for lab management. ffl Assembling the
   budget for submission to the Steering Committee and the Directorate ffl
   Tracking the budget and supervising the production of reports for the
   Steering Committee and lab management. ffl Organizing budget and
   project reviews and tracking milestones required by the Run II Steering
   Committee or the Directorate. ffl Identifying significant problems to
   the Steering Committee. ffl Monitoring the preparation of various
   hardware and software acquisitions from the requirements phase through
   the specification, source selection process, final procurement, and
   implementation and providing status information to the Steering
   Committee. ffl Supervising the preparation of MOU's or other formal
   agreements where required. ffl Helping the Steering Committee respond
   to requests for status and budget information on a regular and also on
   an ad hoc basis for the directorate. The Task Coordinators will be
   members of the CD. The Steering Committee must concur with their
   appointment and, since they are a key point of contact between the
   project and the Directorate, the Associate Director for Information and
   Technology and the Fermilab Director must also concur with their
   appointment. One of the two Task Coordinators will serve as a member of
   the Steering Committee. The other one will serve as alternate. The
   function of the Run II Joint Offline Project Office is to support the
   project management activities of the Run II Project. It is an
   instrument of the Run II Steering Committee. However, this office
   resides in the Computing Division. The staff are members of the
   Computing Division and they report to the Computing Division
   management. The broad responsibility of this office is to provide,
   under the direction of the Run II Steering Committee, all necessary
   coordination, monitoring, and accounting, effort tracking, tracking of
   milestones, and other management functions for the Run II project. This
   includes maintaining an up-to-date resource loaded cost and schedule
   complete with project milestones and deliverables. This office will be
   the means for fulfilling the Steering Committee's obligation to provide
   information on a regular and, where required, on an ad hoc basis to the
   Director's Office concerning all aspects of the status of the project.
   To assist the two Task Coordinators, the Computing Division budget
   officer will serve part time in this group and will generate the agreed
   upon budget, 10 effort, and other supporting information under the
   direction of the Task Coordinators. There will also be a Project
   Technical and Administrative Aide who will help the Task Coordinators
   in carrying out their job and who will have specific responsibility to
   maintain the resource loaded cost and schedule. The Task Coordinators
   can draw on Computing Division technical and administrative support, in
   consultation with the Division Head, to help them in various aspects of
   their tasks. 3.3 The WBS Level 2 Project Area Coordinators The Run II
   project currently consists of four 'project areas'. Each project area
   includes several of the projects from among the fifteen projects
   described above. Definition of the project areas is to facilitate more
   close interaction between related projects, to provide a focus for
   integration and interface issues, and to allow for the reallocation of
   funds and people, up to some threshold, between such projects as
   needed. These project areas are defined at Level 2 of the WBS. Each
   Level 2 Project Area has a Project Area Coordinator drawn from the
   collaborating organizations. The Project Area Coordinators will in
   general have significant involvement in one or more of the projects
   within their area. They will be appointed by the Task Coordinators with
   the concurrence of the Steering Committee for a fixed term - initially
   for one year. The appointments of Project Area Coordinators are
   renewable. The Task Coordinators and the Steering Committee will
   consult with key personnel in the three collaborating organizations to
   make sure that the people holding the positions can establish good
   working relations with the people participating in the projects they
   will be involved with, and will consider carefully the ability of these
   people to interact with the WBS Level 3 Project Leaders in their area.
   The primary functions of the Level 2 Project Area Coordinators are to
   focus on integration issues, identify interfaces between projects, and
   promote uniformity and consistency across closely related and
   interacting projects - for example between a procurement project and
   the construction project that will be developed for the hardware or
   software thus procured. The Level 2 Project Area Coordinators will help
   the WBS Level 3 Project Managers and the Task Coordinators to
   understand the progress of a project, the resource allocations, and the
   status of the budget, and to present them to the Project Management.
   Specific responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the
   following: ffl Together with the Level 3 Project Managers and the Task
   Coordinators, setting and reviewing the schedules and milestones for
   the projects and making sure that all integration, interface and
   cross-ties within the project area are understood. ffl With the Task
   Coordinators and Level 3 Project Managers, organizing reviews for
   individual projects and the group of projects within their area. 11 ffl
   Identifying issues that interact with and interface to other Level 2
   Project Areas and bringing them to the attention of the Task
   Coordinators. ffl Working with the Level 3 Project Managers, the Task
   Coordinators and the organizational Line Managers on the reallocating
   of resources to deal with problems within their project areas, up to
   some threshold. ffl Representing their project area in discussions and
   interactions with the other Project Area Coordinators and the Task
   Coordinators. 3.4 The WBS Level 3 Project Managers The Level 3 Project
   Managers are directly responsible for accomplishing the joint projects
   we have defined for Run II Computing. The responsibilities of the Level
   3 project managers are ffl To develop, when at an appropriate stage,
   all the elements of a complete project plan, including requirements,
   specifications, resource estimates, schedules, budgets, deliverables,
   and cross ties to other projects in the form of extensions to the
   current WBS and resource loaded cost and schedule. ffl To propose
   staffing for each project and subproject. ffl To provide management and
   technical input to carry out the project. ffl To appoint leaders of
   major sub-projects in consultation with the Level 2 project area
   coordinator and Task Coordinators, and subject to concurrence of the
   Run II Steering Committee. ffl To prepare reports - including regular
   bimonthly status reports - for the Steering Committee. ffl To assist
   the Task Coordinators in responding to regular and ad hoc requests for
   information from the Directorate. ffl To organize internal reviews of
   projects and subprojects. ffl To assist in preparing for external
   reviews as required. ffl To allocate resources within their part of the
   project. ffl To bring any major problems in the project to the
   attention of the Steering Committe via the Level 2 project area
   coordinator and Task Coordinators and to prepare formal change control
   requests where required. 12 3.5 Interaction with the Experiments The
   interaction between the project management and teams and the
   experiments is the most critical element of this project. The
   experiment consensus must be expressed in the requirements and
   specifications on which the projects are based. Moreover. continuous
   involvement of key members of the experiments is essential during the
   implementation phase. The experiment members must make sure that any
   changes in the experiment's expectations or needs is immediately
   transmitted to the project team and that appropriate changes are made
   to the plan. The experimenters must also monitor the implementation of
   each project to make sure that the team delivers what was specified and
   to provide feedback as quickly as possible on whether the result is
   acceptable to them. We expect that each experiment will have a
   `liaison' to each major project in which it has an interest. We expect
   experiment representatives to serve on the `source selection' teams
   that will be involved in the acquisition of hardware and software.
   Finally, we expect each experiment to have a formal mechanism for
   reviewing and reacting to major plans, requirements documents,
   specifications, acquisition documents, etc. 4 Incremental Change
   Control Incremental change control, by which we mean technical changes
   or changes to the project cost or schedule that can be accomodated
   within the current WBS structure, will be handled on a graded basis
   according to Table ??. The exact thresholds will be reexamined once the
   full project cost and WBS, with its milestones, are in place. The
   additions of new projects or significant changes to the current WBS
   structure are discussed below in the section called "Evolution of the
   Plan". 5 Project Oversight Project oversight takes several forms. The
   Steering Committee, in addition to its very high-level management
   functions, must carry out oversight of the many components of the
   project. The Computing Division is responsible for the effective use of
   laboratory resources and for the successful implementation of the
   computer hardware and a portion of the software. It has responsibility
   for the hardware and software procurement associated with the project.
   The Fermilab Directorate has the ultimate oversight responsibility for
   all these activities. The readiness of the offline computing is a
   `scheduling' issue - that is, it effects when the experiments are ready
   to take data. The CDF and DO/ experiments are the intended
   beneficiaries for this project and have concerns of their own. The
   Steering Committee will design its own mechanisms for `internal'
   oversight which will include frequent status reports, periodic internal
   and/or exter13 nal reviews of major projects, and detailed tracking of
   milestones and accounting for failure to meet them. The Steering
   Committee is responsible for updating the organization of the Joint
   Offline Project, as required, to address such problems as changing
   understanding of the needs of the two experiments, or inability to use
   the present structure to achieve the necessary milestones and final
   results. The Task Coordinators will assist them in their oversight
   function. Collaboration oversight may be achieved in many ways. The
   collaborations will be well connected to the project by their
   representatives on the Steering Committee and by their participation in
   the Run II committee. Members of the project, especially the top-level
   project leaders, are available to participate in experiment reviews.
   Either experiment may request a major review specific to an aspect of
   the Joint Offline Project or obtain information on any aspect of the
   project by making a request through the Steering Committee. The
   laboratory currently has an oversight structure for the project. The
   Associate Director for Information and Technology (ADIT) has appointed
   a a review committee which has met periodically at his request to
   review the project and make recommendations. The spokespersons of CDF
   and DO/ have been asked to participate in these reviews. With the
   establishment of the Run II Offline Project Office, the Directorate
   will be able to get regular status reports. The Run II Project Office,
   and especially the Run II Task Coordinators, are the main point of
   contact for Table 1: Change Control for Run II Joint Offline Analysis
   Project Directorate Steering Task Level II Committee Coordinators
   Project Managers Technical Changes to the project purpose or goals
   Significant incremental changes in scope above the baseline Any change
   in scope which impacts in a significant way the functionality or
   performance of the system N/A Schedule Greater than 2 month change in
   Level 1 milestones Greater than a 3 month delay in a Level 2 milestone
   Greater than a 1 month delay in a Level 2 milestone or greater than a 3
   month delay in a Level 3 milestone Greater than a 1 month delay in a
   Level 3 milestone Cost Any increase in the Total Project Cost (TPC) Any
   change in cost of an acquisition by more than 15% Any increase in the
   cost of an acquisition by more than 10% N/A 14 regular and ad hoc
   requests for information. Regular bimonthly project status reports will
   be generated and will be submitted to the Directorate. 6 Evolution of
   the Project Plan 6.1 Elaboration of the Plan The project plan described
   here is only the upper level of a complete plan. Some of the projects -
   such as RIP, ZOOM, and configuration management - are in the
   implementation stage and those projects can be specified with a more
   complete Work Breakdown Structure, milestones, and deliverables. This
   is being done now. Other projects are still being defined and details
   will be added to the WBS as soon as they are understood. We expect to
   begin the process of assigning resources and budget to the parts of the
   project that are well understood. These will be captured in the full
   WBS document which should be considered a companion document to this
   plan. 6.2 Scope Changes to the Plan The addition of projects, the
   rearrangment of reporting lines, major changes in the scope of one of
   the fifteen projects, or other significant modifications to this plan
   can only be made by the Steering Committee in conjunction with the Task
   Coordinators and must be recorded in a revision to this document. If
   major changes in the reporting lines to the Directorate or in the
   overall scope of the project are involved, then the Steering Commitee
   must work with the Directorate to reach agreement on the proposed
   changes. Any revision to the main body of this plan or the organization
   chart must be submitted to the Directorate and the collaborations for
   review. 15
