http://www.aphis.usda.gov/vs/nvap/

   [vs.jpg]


            NVAP Banner
            About NVAP


                                        [tl.gif]

                                           PCMS    Certification
                                                   NVAP
                                         Planning   Monitoring

   [tl.gif]

           [br.gif]


         Find Information on:
              About NVAP
        Applying for Veterinary
   Accreditation
           Accreditation in
   Other States
              Orientation
              Fact Sheet
        9 CFR 161 (regulations)
                 FAQ's
   Instructions and Application Form
         Standards Part 161.3
        Update Your Information
            Program Contact
          Print Text Version

   Search VS
   __________
   Search

   NVAP Information
       Site Map
       Comments
       Privacy

    Agency Links:
      USDA Home
     APHIS Home
       VS Home
   VS Area Offices

          Related Topics:
        Animal Regulations
               AVMA
   State Animal Health Officials
          Trichinae Pilot

   ABOUT NVAP

   The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection
   Service (APHIS), Veterinary Services (VS), administers the National
   Veterinary Accreditation Program (NVAP). This voluntary program
   certifies private veterinary practitioners to work cooperatively with
   Federal veterinarians and State animal health officials.

   Producers that export animals rely on the expertise of accredited
   veterinarians to help ensure that exported animals will not introduce
   diseases into another State or country. The accreditation program has
   served the animal industry well for many years and remains integral to
   their future growth.

   There are currently 60,000+ active accredited veterinarians in the
   national database. Accredited veterinarians are instrumental in
   increasing our capability to perform competent health certifications
   and to maintain extensive disease surveillance and monitoring.

   Mission Statement

   The mission of the NVAP is to ensure the health of the nations'
   livestock and animal population and to protect the public health and
   well being.

   Goal

   The goal of the NVAP is to maintain the effective cooperation and
   utilization of private veterinary practitioners for regulatory work in
   a manner that is consistent with international trade requirements and
   safeguarding animal health.
   History

   Private practitioners were first used to perform regulatory work in
   1907 when a large number of horses were exported to Canada. As there
   were inadequate numbers of Federal veterinarians to meet these demands,
   the Canadian government agreed to accept health inspections and
   certifications performed by private practitioners qualified by the
   Bureau of Animal Industry (now APHIS). The services of practicing
   veterinarians were used again in 1917 when the Tuberculosis Eradication
   program was established. However, the accreditation program officially
   began in 1921, when USDA, Bureau of Animal Industry, administered the
   first accreditation examination to certify practitioners as
   representatives of the Federal government.

   USDA established the veterinary accreditation program so private
   practitioners could assist Federal veterinarians in controlling animal
   diseases. Today, accredited veterinarians and State animal health
   officials work cooperatively in the NVAP.

   On November 23, 1992, APHIS established accreditation on a national
   basis rather than on a State-by-State basis. Creating this national
   system has ensured enough accredited veterinarians are available across
   the country. The national system also standardized the accreditation
   procedures and requirements allowing for more uniform administration of
   the program.

   Accredited veterinarians are the backbone of U.S. regulatory programs
   for livestock and poultry diseases. The responsibilities of an
   accredited veterinarian are extraordinary. In fact, the United States
   depends extensively upon the accredited veterinarian for official
   functions, e.g., inspecting, testing, and certifying animals. More than
   80 percent of all U.S. veterinarians are accredited.

   Voluntary Participation

   Participation in the NVAP is voluntary. It is not mandated by the
   Federal Government. Accredited veterinarians participating in NVAP must
   carry out their duties according to the Standards for Accredited
   Veterinarian Duties in Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 161.

   [br.gif]
