http://www.doc.gov/oebam/FOIAWebsite.htm

   [back.gif] Back to Main OEBAM Homepage


                     Department of Commerce FOIA Website

                               horizontal bar

   FOIA Handbook/Guide

   Introduction

   The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552 was enacted in
   1966 so that any individual or organization would have access to
   government records, unless the records are protected by one of nine
   FOIA Exemptions, or by one of three special law enforcement record
   exclusions. FOIA does not apply to records held by Congress, Federal
   Courts, state and local governments, private businesses, schools,
   private organizations, or private individuals. As stated in the FOIA, a
   "FOIA Reading Room" must be made available to the public and contain
   three categories of records (1) final opinions and orders (2) specific
   policy statements and (3) certain administrative staff manuals.

   The Electronic Freedom of Information Act of 1996 established a fourth
   category of reading room records by requiring that each agency make
   available to the public reading room records available electronically
   and be regarded as "electronic reading room".  In addition to the three
   categories, agencies must make available records that have been deemed
   to be of public interest, based on frequent request for the records or
   a determination by the agency that there is potential interest for the
   records.


   Where To Make a FOIA Request

   The Department of Commerce has a decentralized FOIA function, where
   units within each Bureau have FOIA websites, which is available on DOC
   Bureau FOIA Contacts. If you know the Bureau where your records may be
   found, you can go directly to that website. Each website provides
   information regarding the function of the Bureau to further assist you
   in locating the records you are requesting.

   If you are not certain where records may be found you can submit a
   request in writing (verbal requests are not accepted) by mail, email or
   fax to the Department of Commerce's Departmental FOIA Officer.

   Send your request to:

   Brenda Dolan
   Departmental Freedom of Information Officer
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   14^th and Constitution N.W., Room H6022
   Washington D.C. 20230
   E-mail Address EFOIA@doc.gov
   Fax Number:202-482-3270
   Phone Number 202-482-4115

   Each Federal Agency is required to have a FOIA website and is
   responsible for responding to requests specifically for that agency.
   Click here for a list of Principal FOIA Contacts at Federal Agencies.
   In addition, a list of all Federal Agencies and their Administrations
   and Bureaus can be found at Government on the www: United States of
   America.

   Additional resources for information on the Freedom of Information Act
   can be found in:

   (1) U.S. Department of Justice and the General Services Administration
   developed a question and answer guide for the Freedom of Information
   Act and Privacy Act (dated November 1996) titled "Your Right to Federal
   Records."

   (2) Information is provided by the Committee on Government Reform of
   the House of Representatives.  "A Citizen's Guide on Using the Freedom
   of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974 to Request Government
   Records."

   How to Make a FOIA Request

   When submitting your request by mail, please mark the envelope "FREEDOM
   OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST." If you are making your request by e-mail
   please include a mailing address and a daytime telephone number so we
   can contact you if necessary. A FOIA request can be made for any agency
   record that is not publicly available. Describe as best as possible the
   records you are requesting. In your description include information
   such as the date and place the records were created, the file
   descriptions, subject matter, persons involved, and other pertinent
   details that will help identify the records. Please be aware that the
   FOIA does not require agencies to answer questions, or to create
   records to respond to a request.

   Note: Keep a copy of your request. You may need to refer to it in
   further correspondence with the agency.

   Sample FOIA Request Letter

   Date

   Freedom of Information Act Request

   Agency Head or FOIA Officer

   Name of agency or agency component

   Address (see discussion above on whom to contact)

   Dear __________:

   Under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552, I am requesting
   copies of [identify the records as clearly and specifically as
   possible].

   If there are any fees for searching or copying the records, please let
   me know before you fill my request. [Or, please supply the records
   without informing me of the cost if the fees do not exceed $______,
   which I agree to pay.]

   If you deny all or any part of this request, please cite each specific
   exemption to think justify your withholding of information. Notify me
   of appeal procedures available under the law. Optional: If you have any
   questions about handling this request, you may telephone me at
   ___________ (home phone) or at ___________ (office phone).

   Sincerely,

   Name

   Address

   FOIA FEES

   A fee is not charged if the charges for processing the request are less
   than or equal to the cost of routine collection and processing of the
   fee. Therefore, if the total of charges due for processing a request is
   $20 or less, no fee will be charged. If the estimated fee for search or
   duplication charges exceed $25 the requester shall be notified, unless
   the requester has stated in the FOIA request an amount sufficient to
   cover the estimated fees. The following is a chart of the four specific
   categories and chargeable fees:

   Category Chargeable Service

   1. Commercial Use Requesters   Search, Review and Duplication

   2. Educational and Non-commercial    Scientific Institutions Requesters
   Duplication (excluding the cost of the first 100 pages)
   3. Representative of the News Media   Duplication (excluding the cost
   of the first 100 pages)
   4. All Other Requesters Search and Duplication (excluding the cost of
   the first 2 hours of search and 100 pages)

   Waiver or Reduction of Fees

   Documents shall be furnished without charge, or at reduced charges if
   disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is
   likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the
   operations or activities of the government, and is not primarily in the
   operations or activities of the government, and is not primarily in the
   commercial interest of the requester. 15 CFR § 4.9 (c)

   For additional information on FOIA FEES go to:
   www.rdc.noaa.gov/~FOIA/49-rev.htm

   Response Time

   Under FOIA, you have a right to a response within twenty business days
   excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. The period begins on
   the day the request is actually received by the FOIA office which
   maintains the records requested. DOC makes every effort to meet this
   time frame, however, under certain circumstances, this period may be
   extended up to 30 business days. Agencies are allowed an additional ten
   business days when: (1) they need to collect responsive records from
   field offices; (2) the request involves a "voluminous" amount of
   records which must be located, compiled, and reviewed; or (3) if an
   agency must consult with another agency which has a substantial
   interest in the responsive document. When an extension is needed, the
   requester may be notified and offered the opportunity to modify or
   limit their request.

   The court has sanctioned a practice of generally handling backlogged
   FOIA requests on a "first-in, first out" basis. The electronic FOIA
   amendments authorizes agencies to promulgate regulations providing for
   "multitrack processing" of their FOIA requests. The Department of
   Commerce has a decentralized FOIA system, and each
   Bureau/Administration may use two or more processing tracks to
   distinguish between simple and more complex requests. This will be
   based on the number of pages involved, some other measure of the amount
   of work and/or time needed to process the request, and whether the
   request qualifies for expedited processing as described below.

   Expedited Processing

   You may be entitled to an expedited response of less than 20 days. A
   FOIA request may receive "expedited" treatment in cases where there is
   a threat to someone's life or physical safety; the requestor is
   primarily engaged in disseminating information and has established that
   the request is urgently needed to inform the public concerning some
   actual or alleged government activity; or where an individual will
   suffer the loss of substantial due process rights if the records are
   not processed on an expedited basis.

   Appeals

   You may file an administrative appeal for various reasons, including:
   if you believe the determination of your request is incorrect; if
   records responsive to your request are withheld; has not been timely
   determined; you were denied an expedited processing of your request;
   denied a fee waiver; dispute that a record does not exist; or that a
   record is not readily reproducible in the form requested.

   You have 30 (thirty) calendar days after the date of the written denial
   or, if there has been mo determination, on the applicable time limit to
   file the appeal. The appeal should include a copy of the original
   request, the initial denial, if any, and an explanation of the reasons
   why the records requested should be made available and why the initial
   denial, if any, was in error. The appeal letter and envelope should be
   marked "Freedom of Information Appeal" and the letter of appeal should
   include the request number assigned to your initial request. You should
   send your appeal letter to :

   Assistant General Counsel for Administration
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   14^th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW Room H5875
   Washington, DC 20230

   The Department of Commerce's Assistant General Counsel will make a
   determination on your appeal within 20 business days.

   Electronic Reading Room

   FOIA Policies

   The Freedom of Information Act (5 USC 552)

   Privacy Act of 1974 (and Amendments)

   Electronic FOIA Amendments of 1996

   FOIA Updates

   Annual FOIA Report - 1998

   Annual FOIA Report - 1999

   Annual FOIA Report - 2000

   Final Opinions

   Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration

   Office of General Counsel

   Department of Commerce Policy Statement

   Department Organization Orders (DOO's)

   Department of Commerce Administrative Staff Manuals

   Department Administrative Orders (DOA's)

   Records and Forms

   Records Management

   Forms Management

   Frequently Requested Records

   Organization Chart

   DOC Person Finder

   DOC Field Location Handbook

   DOC Bankcard Listing

   Major Information Systems

   Government Information Locator Service (GILS) - GILS records identify
   public information resources within the Federal Government, describe
   the information available in these resources, and assist in obtaining
   the information. www.gils.net/index.html

   National Technical Information Service (NTIS) - NTIS is the central
   source for U.S. Government scientific, technical, and business
   information. It is known as the government's central source for the
   sale of scientific, technical, engineering, and related business
   information produced by or for the U.S. government and complementary
   material from international sources. www.ntis.gov/search.html

   Stat-USA Internet - Stat-USA/Internet, a service of the U.S. Department
   of Commerce, is the site for the U.S. business, economic and trade
   community, providing authoritative information from the Federal
   government. http://www.stat-usa.gov/

   U.S. Superintendent of Documents - All documents at the U.S.
   Superintendent of Documents are shelved by government organization and
   not by subject matter. The documents include information about U.S.
   Government laws, regulations, statistics, maps, and bibliographies.
   http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/aces140.html

   Federal Register - The Federal Register is the official daily
   publication for Rules, Proposed Rules, and Notices of Federal agencies
   and organizations, as well as Executive Orders and other Presidential
   Documents. www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/aces140.html

   Department of Commerce Selected Publications

   Commerce Business Daily

   · ExportAmerica -- A federal source for your global business needs.
   Source: BXA

   · Bureau of Economic Analysis and Census Economic Indicators Release
   Schedule for 2000

   · Survey of Current Business and Other BEA Publications Source: BEA

   · Census Bureau Publications

   · Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and
   TechnologySource: NIST

   · NIST Recent General Publications

   · NIST TechniPubs

   · U.S. Industry & Trade Outlook®® -- Essential for market researchers,
   account executives, analysts, and economists Source: ITA

   · Falling Through the Net: Defining the Digital Divide - July 1999
   Source: NTIA

   · The Emerging Digital Economy II - June 1999 (a PDF document) Source:
   NTIA

   · United States Government Electronic Commerce Policy

   Department Online Libraries

   Main and Law Libraries (located in HCHB)

   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Library

   National Institute of Standards and Technology Virtual Library

   Federal Depository Libraries
