http://pec.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=Enhanced&Section_1=1


   Procurement Executives Council [PEC]      Procurement Executives Council
                                             [PEC]
   Menu Procurement Executives Council [PEC] Procurement Executives
                                             Council [PEC]


   Bypass Naviagation Bar
   Home
   Charter
   Strategic Plan
   Members
   Committees
     Acquisition Business Practices
     Acquisition Workforce
     Electronic Commerce
     Executive
     Joint OSDBU Council/PEC Steering
     Outreach
     Socio-Economic
   Members Only
   Studies, Reports, Publications and Articles
   Budget
     FY 2000
     FY 2001
   Opportunities
     Employment
     Intern
     Procurement
     Rotational Assignments
     Small Business
     What We Buy
   Links
   Search
   Archives
   Administrator


   Text Only Version Procurement Executives Council [PEC]

                  PROCUREMENT EXECUTIVES COUNCIL CHARTER
   June 7, 2001

     INTRODUCTION:
     The Procurement Executives Council is an interagency council
     consisting of procurement executives in the Executive Branch
     established to provide a senior level forum for monitoring and
     improving the Federal Acquisition System.

     PURPOSE:
     The vision of the Federal Acquisition System is to continuously
     improve and promote business practices which deliver on a timely
     basis best value products or services to the customer, while
     maintaining the publics trust and fulfilling public policy
     objectives. The Councils purpose is to make this vision a reality.

     The Council will be the principal forum for the Procurement
     Executives to utilize their collective influence and knowledge to
     achieve the vision for the Federal Acquisition System. The scope of
     the Council's activities will embrace the full range of Procurement
     Executive responsibilities including procurement, acquisition and,
     as appropriate, grants.

     The Council will:
     * Define the vision for the Federal Acquisition System of the 21st
       Century and establish priorities for the actions needed to realize
       that vision
     * Provide recommendations to the Federal Acquisition Regulatory
       Council and other regulatory bodies on regulatory issues and
       provide assistance to these bodies when requested
     * Make recommendations concerning legislation affecting the
       procurement community
     * Work with other affinity groups to develop solutions to issues
       impacting Procurement Executive functions
     * Create an environment that promotes innovation, empowerment, and
       risk taking in accomplishing the Governments business
     * Explore methods to streamline and improve existing processes
     * Leverage resources to develop solutions to common problems
     * Share ideas, practices, and experiences among agencies.
     * The Councils strategic priorities are contained in the PEC
       Strategic Plan FY 2001-2005, Dated April 2001.

     OFFICERS AND MEMBERSHIP:
     The officers for the Council will consist of the Chair and Vice
     Chair. The Chair will be the Deputy Director of Management, Office
     of Management and Budget, and the Vice Chair will be an agency
     Procurement Executive elected every two years by a majority of the
     Council who, among other duties discussed in this Charter, will act
     for the Chair in the Chairs absence.

     The members of the Council include the Administrator of the Office
     of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) and the Senior Procurement
     Executives for the Departments of: Agriculture, Commerce, Defense,
     Education, Energy, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban
     Development, Interior, Justice, Labor, Transportation, Treasury,
     State, and Procurement Executive from the Department of Veterans
     Affairs; as well as National Aeronautics and Space Administration
     (NASA), General Services Administration (GSA), Environmental
     Protection Agency (EPA), National Science Foundation (NSF), Nuclear
     Regulatory Commission (NRC), Office of Personnel Management (OPM),
     Small Business Administration (SBA), Social Security Administration
     (SSA), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and two members
     representing the Small Agency Council. Ex Officio Membership has
     been extended to the Committee for the Purchase from People Who Are
     Blind or Severely Disabled.

     Representatives from the Chief Financial Officers Council (CFOC),
     the Chief Information Officers Council (CIOC), the President's
     Council on Integrity and Efficiency, the Information Technology
     Resources Board (ITRB) and other affinity groups with an interest in
     procurement matters are invited to participate in the Council's
     meetings.

     The program activities of other agencies (e.g., SBA, EPA, and the
     Department of Labor) may have a significant effect on the Council in
     carrying out its purpose. Accordingly, program executives from other
     agencies may be invited to Council meetings when determined
     necessary by the Council.

     MEETINGS AND VOTING:
     Unless otherwise specified, the Council will meet every other month
     on the first Thursday in February, April, June, August, October, and
     December of each year from 9:30 to 12 noon at a location to be
     determined by the Vice Chair.

     Meeting agendas will be established by the Vice Chair with the
     objective of providing the agenda to the full membership ten (10)
     calendar days in advance of the meeting. The Vice Chair will ensure
     appropriate stakeholder agencies are invited and arrange for the
     recording of minutes when needed. Normally meetings are principals
     only or designated alternates unless the Council determines that
     agency staff members can attend. OFPP staff members may attend as
     requested by the Chair, Vice-Chair, OFPP's member and Committee
     Chairs. Other individual may attend as presenters or subject matter
     experts as necessary.

     The Council may schedule ad-hoc or special meetings as necessary.

     On issues before the Council which require a Council vote, each
     Agency or Department (including the Small Agency Council) will have
     one vote which may be cast by either the Principal or their
     designated representative. Each Procurement Executive will identify
     to the Vice Chair a senior official as a permanent designated
     representative who may attend Council meetings in the Procurement
     Executive's absence and can speak for and commit the Procurement
     Executive to a course of action.

     One-half the number of Council members (or their designated
     representatives) must be present for voting purposes.

     COMMITTEES:
     The Council can establish two types of committees:

     Standing committees which will address particular functional areas
     that are of on-going interest to the entire Council or of interest
     and applicability to a set of Council members. Standing committees
     will be headed by a Council member or their permanent designated
     representative.

     Working groups (ad hoc or other) which will address particular areas
     of concern that normally last for a limited time.

     Committees are to be chartered by the Council with a clear mission,
     and stated deliverables or outcomes and measures to determine the
     success and effectiveness of the effort. Committees will only be
     formed to further the priorities set by the Council. The selection
     of committee members will be tailored to the effort at hand.
     Individuals from the Procurement Executive's staff, agencies not
     represented on the Council, or other relevant functional areas may
     be members of a Committee.

     The Council will review the charters of other existing
     procurement-related committees, councils, etc. to determine if such
     groups should continue as they are, be chartered under the Council,
     or be disbanded.

     The Procurement Executive Council's Standing Committees as of this
     revision to the Council's Charter are:
    1. Acquisition Business Practice
    2. Acquisition Workforce
    3. Electronic Commerce
    4. Executive
    5. Outreach
    6. Socio-economic Issues
    7. Joint OSDBU Council/PEC Steering

     RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER GROUPS:
     The Council will provide representatives to serve as liaisons with
     the Chief Information Officers Council, the Chief Financial Officers
     Council, President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, the Office
     of Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization Director's Interagency
     Council and, as appropriate, other councils or affinity groups.

     CHARTER UPDATE:
     This charter will be reviewed and updated by the Council every two
     years. Maintaining the Charter is the responsibility of the Vice
     Chair.

     The Procurement Executives Council adopted this charter on June 7,
     2001.


   Contact Us: The PEC Council | Please Read Our Privacy, Security, and
   E.Mail Policy Statement
    First Gov Logo   ARNet Logo

   Accessibility 05/30/01 OGP-CIO
   Last Updated: 06/18/2001
