http://www.chhs.ca.gov/GJmessage.pdf

   HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AGENCY GRAY DAVIS State of California
   GOVERNOR May 2001 Dear Stakeholder, GRANTLAND JOHNSON SECRETARY
   California continues to experience electrical shortages and rolling
   blackouts. The Governor and his staff are working hard to address the
   energy crisis and to develop Agency solutions. During this challenging
   period, I encourage each of you to use energy Departments & Boards:
   wisely and to be aware of the needs of your frail friends, relatives
   and neighbors during times of extreme heat. Aging Alcohol and With
   summer fast approaching, here is some health and safety advice and a
   few Drug Programs warm weather energy saving tips. Remember that your
   health and that of your loved ones is most important. Child Support
   Services Summer heat can create unhealthy conditions for many. The
   elderly, the ill or Community Services disabled, and the very young are
   the most vulnerable during extreme heat conditions. and Development To
   prevent heat related health problems for you and the people you care
   about, we Developmental strongly suggest that you use these simple tips
   and that you encourage those in your Services care to do so as well:
   Emergency Medical Services Authority * Drink plenty of fluids even if
   you are not thirsty. * During heavy exercise, drink 16-32 ounces of
   cool fluids per hour (be sure to Employment Development consult your
   doctor before altering your daily activities). Department * Wear light
   clothing. Health Services * If you do not have air conditioning, visit
   an air-conditioned building  the grocery store, the mall, your local
   library  this is a good time to see a movie. Health and * Take a cool
   shower or bath. Human Services Data Center * Pace yourself in physical
   activities  schedule activities in the early morning or the evening.
   Managed Risk * Never, leave people or animals in a car or
   non-ventilated space. Medical Insurance Mental Health If you know
   someone who is frail or elderly call or visit them regularly and check
   on their situation during a blackout or period of extreme heat.
   Rehabilitation Social Services Conserving energy is one way each of us
   can help minimize the number of blackouts that may be required this
   summer. Statewide Health Planning and Development Here are some things
   you can do in your home: Workforce * Turn up your thermostat to 78
   degrees when you are home and 85 degrees Investment when you are away.
   * Use your appliances wisely  avoid running your appliances during the
   peak hours of 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. * Eliminate wasted energy -- turn
   off appliances and lights when not in use. (continued on next page)
   1600 Ninth Street 路 Room 460 路 Sacramento, CA 95814 路 Telephone (916)
   654-3454 路 Fax (916) 654-3343 Internet Address: www.chhs.ca.gov Low
   cost energy solutions include: * Replace air conditioner filters. *
   Plug your home's leaks-weather-strip, seal, and caulk leaky doors and
   windows. * Replace your incandescent light bulbs that are used more
   than two hours per day with Energy Star compact fluorescent bulbs. *
   When replacing appliances, buy Energy Star products. * Install window
   shading-awnings, patio covers, solar window screens. * Use
   strategically planted trees, shrubs and vines to shade your home. *
   Seal ducts. Businesses should adopt similar energy saving solutions.
   For more information visit www.flexyourpower.ca.gov. Thank you for your
   help in the State's efforts to protect the health and safety of others
   and to reduce energy consumption. Sincerely, GRANTLAND JOHNSON
   Secretary
