http://www.oig.nsf.gov/audit.htm

   NSF Logo Office of Inspector General

   ABOUT OIG
   Mission/Vision/Values
   Organizational Chart
   OIG Liaisons
   Staff Directory
   Highlights
   OIG PROGRAMS
   Office of Audits
   Audits
   Office of Investigations
   Administrative
   Civil and
   Criminal
   Outreach
   and Oversight
   Administrative Staff
   OIG PUBLICATIONS
   OIG NEWS
   EMPLOYMENT
   DIRECTIONS to OIG
   OIG HOTMAIL
   SUGGESTIONS
   IGNET

                                   Audits

   Deborah H. Cureton
   Associate Inspector General for Audit

   The Office of Audit, headed by the Associate Inspector General for
   Audits, reviews agency operations as well as grants, contracts, and
   cooperative agreements funded by NSF. By providing independent and
   objective assessments of NSFs program and financial performance, we are
   committed to improving NSFs business policies and practices to better
   support NSF in promoting science and engineering research and
   education. To accomplish our mission we endeavor to maintain open
   communication and work in partnership with NSF management. We try to
   assist NSF management in improving NSF operations and to identify and
   manage program risks at an early stage. Our audits are conducted in
   accordance with the Government Auditing Standards and fall within two
   main areas: Internal and External.
   External Audits

   We conduct financial audits of NSF's awards and awardee institutions to
   determine whether costs claimed by awardees are allowable, reasonable,
   and properly allocated. Our audits also seek to identify uneconomical
   practices that may be modified so that funds can be used for other
   purposes that taxpayers consider more important. Our mission includes
   supporting NSF in carrying out its mission to promote science and
   engineering research and education. One of the ways that we support NSF
   is through ensuring the application of its own and federal regulations
   concerning award administration. This is, in general, the basis for our
   audits and reviews and our staff keeps abreast of changes and updates
   to all of these regulations.
   Internal Audits

   Internal audits are reviews of selected NSF programs and operations,
   which provide management with an independent appraisal of whether
   desired results and objectives are achieved efficiently, economically,
   and in accordance with prescribed laws, regulations, policies, and
   procedures. These audits, which are mandated by the Inspector General
   Act of 1978, as amended, complement other facets of management control.
   Management should and does conduct its own evaluations to determine the
   effectiveness of internal controls over their program areas. The key
   differences between such evaluations and internal audits conducted by
   the OIG are the independence of the OIG from the management of such
   programs, which gives additional assurances that sound practices are
   being followed and that our recommendations are unbiased, and the
   responsibility placed on the OIG by the IG Act to report on the results
   of our audits to the NSB and the Congress. We fulfill our reporting
   requirements primarily through our Semiannual Report to the Congress.

   nsf.gov
   | About NSF | Funding | Publications | News & Media | Search | Site Map
   | Help
   NSF Celebrating 50 Years The National Science Foundation
   Office of the Inspector General
   4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Suite 1135, Virginia 22230, USA
   Tel: 703-292-7100, Fax: 703-292-9158 | Hotline: 800-428-2189 Contact
   OIG

    Oct 31, '00
