http://astrobiology.arc.nasa.gov/technologies/index.html

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [USEMAP:logo.gif]
   Home
   Latest News
   Roadmap
   Science Goals
   Technologies
   Missions
   Workshops
   Education
   Public Engagement
   Astrobiology Institute
   Our Web Awards
   Media Center
   Related Links
   Public Policy
   Questions
   References
   Search
   Biology at NASA
   Contacts
   Navagation Image
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]


   Astrobiology: Technologies
   bbb

         •Thousands of sensors ranging from fingernail size to matchbook size
             exist that can support a wide range of measurements including pH,
             chemical composition and concentration, temperature, pressure,
             partial pressure, gravity, acceleration, elemental abundances,
             spectral characteristics, etc. Most have been developed for other
             applications, so they need to be tailored and adapted for
             Astrobiology. We must start now to enable utilization of these
             technologies in 2-3 year time frame. Also need to consider sensor
             arrays and groups, to obtain data from multiple parameters
             simultaneously. A critical problem is in getting the sample to the
             sensor, and all handling/management issues therein.
             Some examples include: Leading Technologies: Smaller Spacecraft and
             Miniaturized Environmental Sensors
             Chemical laboratories that enable multiple analyses -- even
             sequential analyses -- of a single sample can fit on a compact
             disk. There are also other techniques and methods of doing the same
             that are at generally the same level of readiness (pre-commercial
             product).
             Microfluidics and Comparison of Micromachining Techniques
             Mass spectrometers, ion mobility spectrometers, gas chromatographs,
             imaging systems in wavelengths spanning gamma ray through infrared
             are available within a soda can to shoebox volume. These can be
             miniaturized further. Examples: Ion Mobility Spectra of Unresolved
             Gas Chromatographic Peaks
             Instrument suites can be developed to fit within the envelope of a
             soda can, but require further development to effectively realize
             this potential.
             Cell and microbial culture and preservation facilities suitable for
             early Space Station were identified that could fit within the
             volume of a hockey puck.
             Even spacecraft can be miniaturized. DS2 is an outstanding example
             of this philosophy. Mars Microprobe Project
             • Development of sample management systems is urgently needed. A
             critical finding is that the state of the art of sample management
             -- sample acquisition, preparation, distribution, and preservation
             -- is seriously deficient and precludes the use of the vast array
             of capabilities available in miniaturized analytical
             instrumentation. This is a common problem -- in DARPA and in the
             biotech community as well as in NASA. It is recommended that the
             next technology NRA specifically address this problem.
             • Autonomous or remotely operated biolabs in situ (AROBIS) are
             recommended for research in hydrothermal vents, subterranean
             systems, deep drilling, planetary bodies. These should combine
             intelligent mechanism, robotics, and measurement technologies to
             provide a powerful multidisciplinary attack on characterizing sites
             for habitability, chemical evolution, and life. Related Links:
             Intelligent Mechanisms Group and Antarctic to Become Laboratory for
             Future Mars Missions
             • Hyperspectral imaging and analysis systems for remote (midrange)
             and in situ studies of planetary bodies is recommended for
             development. Applications of these technologies would preserve
             spatial features with the chemical and environmental data to enable
             selections among in situ examination strategies based on real time
             analysis. Specific instrument and algorithm development is needed
             to coordinate imaging and environmental data; build in the capacity
             to analyze information per pixel; apply adaptive analytical
             techniques; and harden for planetary exploration. DARPA/industry
             partnership opportunities are excellent. Relate link:
             OPTO-KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS, Inc
             • Technologies that enable evolutionary biology studies and
             organism/environment interface characterization are recommended for
             Space Station. These technologies would enable the first definitive
             qualitative and quantitative molecular biology examinations of a
             wide range of terrestrial species, characterization of terrestrial
             evolution beyond Earth, and examination of co-evolution of life and
             the environment issues.
             • Direct microscopic imaging capability is recommended. Remote or
             autonomous operation of imaging systems in wide range of spectra,
             resolution, and amplification would provide a powerful new tool for
             in situ examination of planetary bodies. Related systems would have
             broad applications to Space Station. These systems should include
             intelligent analysis for autonomous operation that meet low
             bandwidth constraints.
             • Gas/Grain Simulation capability is recommended for Space Station
             -- to investigate the role of gravity in prebiotic chemistry, comet
             chemistry, aerosol chemistry, low gravity chemistry (Mars, Europa),
             and chemistry of interstellar medium.
             • Technologies that enable evolutionary biology studies and
             organism/environment interface characterization are recommended for
             Space Station. These technologies would enable the first definitive
             qualitative and quantitative molecular biology examinations of a
             wide range of terrestrial species, characterization of terrestrial
             evolution beyond Earth, and examination of co-evolution of life and
             the environment issues. (See Astrobiology Life Sciences Hardware
             Database.)
             CONCLUSION:
             The current and projected state of the art can provide an
             impressive arsenal of tools for Astrobiology research on the
             remarkable set mission opportunities planned over the next decade.
             Executed correctly, these tools and techniques can help
             characterize the organic history and composition of other worlds,
             find sources of liquid water, and enable sophisticated searches for
             extant and extinct life in extreme environments throughout the
             solar system. Joint development and collaborations with industry,
             NSF, NIH, NOAA, DOE, DARPA and others can provide cost effective
             solutions to common problems, reduce the development cost and
             provide fresh practical perspectives on interdisciplinary problems.


   [spacer.gif]

                            Questions? Comments?

                         Responsible NASA Official:
                              Kathleen Connell

                          Designed and Curated by:
                           Symtech Corp. and NASA

   [spacer.gif]
