http://ares.fedworld.gov/news/efoia/priv-pol.html

   IRS Web Privacy and Security Policy

     [ Click for Text Only Version ]

   You have entered the Internal Revenue Service's web site, an official
   United States Government System which may be used only for authorized
   purposes. Thank you for visiting us. The IRS is committed to protecting
   the privacy rights of America's taxpayers. These rights are ensured
   through the Internal Revenue Code, the Privacy Act, other federal
   statutes, and IRS policies and practices. Our concern for your privacy
   is no different in the electronic age.

   Our Internet policy is:

   (1) We will not collect personal information about you just because you
   visit this site.

   In order to improve the usefulness of our web site for our visitors, we
   automatically collect and maintain statistical information from our
   site's data logs that concern network traffic flow and volume. This
   information consists of:
    1. the name of the domain from which the visitor accesses the Internet
       (e.g., "a company.com"; "a school.edu"; or "an agency.gov");
    2. the Internet Protocol Number; and
    3. the date and time the IRS web site is visited.

   This information does not identify individual visitors. It is retained
   for a minimum of 90 days to comply with National Archives and Records
   Administration (NARA) record-keeping requirements.

   (2) We do not use cookies, a file placed on a visitor's hard drive that
   allows the web site to monitor the individual's use of the site.

   No attempts are made to identify individual users unless illegal
   behavior is suspected. So that this service remains available to you
   and all other visitors, we monitor network traffic to identify
   unauthorized attempts to upload or change information or otherwise
   cause damage to the web service. Use of this system constitutes consent
   to such monitoring and auditing. Unauthorized attempts to upload
   information and/or change information on this web site are strictly
   prohibited and are subject to prosecution under the Computer Fraud and
   Abuse Act of 1986 and Title 18 U.S.C. Sec.1001 and 1030.

   (3) We use these web pages to provide information pertaining to the
   Internal Revenue Service, its policies, educational materials, tax
   forms that can be downloaded, and programs as a public service.

   These web pages may also offer you the opportunity to ask questions,
   request information, or provide comment. Use of this option is
   voluntary and may require an email address. We will only use
   information from submitted forms, email messages, and any other
   information you provide for the reasons you provided it. The
   information will be destroyed after the purpose has been fulfilled and
   in compliance with NARA requirements.

   (4) Any information we collect and maintain in the course of responding
   to you will be handled in accordance with the access and privacy
   protection requirements of the Privacy Act, the Freedom of Information
   Act, and the Internal Revenue Code. For further information regarding
   these statutes, visit the IRS Electronic Freedom of Information Act
   Reading Room.

   (5) We will not share the information you give us with anyone unless
   required by law. We also will not sell your information.

   (6) We will not email personal information such as account-related or
   refund information as part of our response to you. The confidentiality
   of Internet transmissions is not guaranteed.

   It is up to you if you want to assume the risk of an unauthorized
   person learning your email address or any personal information you
   provide. If you would like us to answer a question that involves your
   account, refund, or personal information, please call 1-800-829-1040.
   You may also visit How to Contact Us for further information on
   contacting specific IRS offices nationwide.

   If you have any questions or comments regarding our web site privacy
   policy, please contact the Office of the Privacy Advocate by mail at:

     The Office of the Privacy Advocate
     Internal Revenue Service
     CL:PA Room 7050
     1111 Constitution Ave. NW
     Washington, DC 20224

            Tax Stats | Tax Info For You | Tax Info For Business
   Electronic Services | Taxpayer Help & Ed | Tax Regs In English
   IRS Newsstand | Forms & Pubs | What's Hot | Meet The Commissioner
   Comments & Help | How to Contact Us | Site Tree | IRS Jobs

   [Previous]     {Next}     [Home]     [Search]     [Help!]

        Friday, 03-Mar-2001 12:00:46 EST
