http://www.pmi.opm.gov/agency.htm

   Image Image
         Image
         Image

           Memos to Agencies

           This section has memos and letters to agency coordinators, and
           Directors of Personnel.

           Finalists

           This section has the list of Presidential Management Intern (PMI)
           finalists by year which can be sorted by Name, Agency or Appointment
           Status. In this section authorized users may also view and print
           finalist resumes.

           Aggregate Appointments

           This section has the PMI Appointments Report which shows by agency
           the aggregate number of PMIs projected for hiring, the number of
           PMIs actually hired, and the number of PMI appointment offers
           pending.

           Agency Coordinators

           This section includes a listing of Agency Coordinators with contact
           information.

           Agency Responsibilities

           This section defines the roles and responsibilities of the Agency
           and the Agency Coordinators.

           Relevant Forms

           This section has the PMI Projected Positions System, the PMI
           Information Worksheet, the Reimbursement for PMI Hires Form 1616 and
           the Reimbursement for PMI Hires -- Credit Card Payment.
           The PMI Projected Positions System is used by Agencies to add/edit
           and delete identified projected positions for PMI finalists. The PMI
           Projected Positions System replaces the Handbook of Projected
           Positions.
           The PMI Information Worksheet is used by PMIs and Agency
           Coordinators to inform the PMI Program Office of changes to the
           PMI's agency information or to the PMI's current mailing address.
           The Reimbursement for PMI Hires OPM Form 1616 is used by the agency
           to reimburse the PMI Program Office $4,800.00 within 30 days of a
           PMI appointment for costs associated with the recruitment,
           selection, placement, orientation and graduation of PMIs. This fee
           does not cover travel and per diem expenses associated with
           attendance at the orientation and graduation. Agencies are expected
           to cover these costs for their PMIs.
           The Reimbursement for PMI Hires -- Credit Card Payment is used for
           the same purpose as described for Form 1616; however, a credit card
           is used as the method of payment.

           Training

           This section has General Policies pertaining to training;
           information about Orientation and Graduation training sessions;
           guidance on producing the Individual Development Plan; plus training
           Vendors information; and pertinent training Forms.

         TOP
   Home  [starsm.gif]  Program Policy  [starsm.gif]  Interns  [starsm.gif]
      Agencies  [starsm.gif]  CDGs  [starsm.gif]  Training  [starsm.gif]
                       Rotations  [starsm.gif]  Forms
