http://www.mcdot.maricopa.gov/tab/home.htm


   Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page

     Maricopa County Website Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page


   Blank



Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page...click on the link to the left

                                                                                               Contact Us

                                              Department of Transportation
                                                              602-506-1482

   Blank



                                               Navigation Bar

                  • MCDOT Home
                 • Contact MCDOT
                   • Divisions
                     • FAQ's
                   • Services
                   • Projects
                  • Topics List
                  • Website Map
                 • Website Tour

                           Many documents on this
                           site are in pdf format.
          Click the button below for a free copy of Acrobat Reader.
                             Get Acrobat Reader

   Transportation Advisory Board (TAB)

     The Transportation Advisory Board (TAB) is comprised of residents,
   appointed by the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors (BOS), from each
   of the county's five districts. TAB members bring the constituent voice
   of transportation decisions. One of TAB'S primary goals is to assist in
    developing and maintaining public understanding and support of MCDOT
     programs though active communication. TAB meets monthly in a public
       venue, which is open to citizen attendance. Agenda for upcoming
      meetings and minutes from previous meetings are available online.

   TAB's bylaws offer structure to the organization. Guiding TAB are the
     following objectives, pursued as a part of its mission statement:
     * Comprehensive transportation planning that enhances the quality of
       life for Maricopa County residents
     * Continued safety and maintenance of the Maricopa County
       transportation system
     * Implementing the BOS transportation goals
     * Excellence in regional planning and promoting cooperative efforts
       to resolve rural and urban issues

      One of TAB'S greatest partnerships is with the public itself. TAB
     relies heavily on the community to express its transportation needs
    through participation in various studies, correspondence with staff,
    and attendance at public meetings. Also, you can view the schedule of
                   all upcoming regular meetings for 2002.

        For further information contact: Dora Vasquez (602) 506-8054

   County Site Map     What's New

                                                                                        2001 Maricopa County


                                       Legal Information    Privacy Policy

   © 2001 Maricopa County
