http://www.ncvhs.hhs.gov/hsvision/Vision21stCentury.pdf

   Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics Interim Report June
   2000 Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim
   Report, June 2000 1 &217(176 Introduction: The 21st century Vision
   process................................... 3 Unrealized
   potential..............................................................
   ..... 4 Birth of the visioning
   process...................................................... 4
   Process, participants, and
   products............................................ 5 Intended
   impacts................................................................
   ....... 5 Who will
   benefit?...............................................................
   ......... 7 What we've learned so far: Trends and gaps shaping the
   Vision.......... 8 Socioeconomic, demographic, and environmental
   factors............... 8 The health of
   populations............................................................
   9 Health care, the health services delivery "system," and health care
   seeking................................................................
   .. 9 Scientific
   research...............................................................
   ........ 11 Public policy and
   advocacy.......................................................... 12
   Information
   technology.............................................................
   ... 12 What we've learned so far: Cross-cutting issues shaping the
   Vision.... 13 Privacy and the common
   good...................................................... 13
   Negotiating boundaries: proprietary, governmental, and other........ 14
   Data quality
   issues.................................................................
   ...... 15 Resource and burden
   issues......................................................... 15
   International
   developments...........................................................
   ..... 16 Principles for the 21st century
   Vision.................................................. 16 1. Privacy,
   confidentiality, security, fair information practices......... 17 2.
   Conceptual
   framework..............................................................
   18 3. Flexibility to identify and address emergent issues and the
   health needs of the population...................................... 18
   4. Usefulness at different levels of
   aggregation................................ 18 5. Compatible standards
   serving multiple purposes........................ 19 6. Unitary data
   collection for multiple purposes............................. 19 7.
   Maximum access and ease of
   use.............................................. 19 8. Adequate,
   well-managed resources............................................ 20
   9. Policy
   relevance..............................................................
   .......... 20 10. Broad
   collaboration..........................................................
   ...... 21 Next
   steps..................................................................
   ........................... 21 Staffing and support for the Vision
   project............................................... 22
   Notes..................................................................
   ................................... 23 Appendix: Papers commissioned
   for the visioning process......................... 24 Shaping a Vision
   for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 2 I dream
   things that never were and ask, "Why not?" (G.B. Shaw) ,1752'8&7,21 7+(
   67 &(1785< 9,6,21 352&(66 Building and maintaining a healthy population
   depends on information, and health statistics are a crucial dimension.
   Health statistics are health data that can be gener- alized to a known
   population of individuals, events, organizations, or institutions. The
   statistics can be used to design, implement, monitor, and evaluate
   specific health pro- grams and policies. Properly organized and
   communicated, health statistics enable us citizens, policy makers,
   public health workers, and health care providers to as- sess local or
   national health, mobilize to improve it, and evaluate the success of
   those efforts. An effective system of health statistics can take
   seemingly isolated events and reveal a broader context, identifying
   patterns and trends that can shape personal, professional, and public
   decisions. Consider these examples: * A coalition of community groups
   and public and private health organizations in King County, Washington,
   found that the percentages of Vietnamese, Latina, Chinese, Filipina,
   and Korean women receiving breast and cervical cancer screenings were
   much lower than the county average. In response, several health plans
   and hospitals that are otherwise in competition joined to fund a
   screening and education initiative targeted at these groups. This is
   typical of the activities of the coalition, called the Community
   Benefits Program, which ana- lyzes local data to identify worsening
   trends affecting vulnerable populations and then sets priorities and
   funds community programs aimed at reversing the trends.1 * Any
   pediatrician or emergency physician knows that childhood asthma has in-
   creased alarmingly in the last decade. But without health statistics,
   we would be unaware that African American children are four times as
   likely as white children to die of this cause and ten times as likely
   if they are 1 to 4 years old.2,3 Information such as this made
   childhood asthma part of a major child health initiative launched by
   the President in 1997. * "Growth charts" based on national survey data
   are found in every pediatrician's office. They allow parents and
   doctors to compare a child to a population refer- ence standard,
   providing an indicator of whether the child is developing nor- mally or
   is in need of nutritional or medical attention. Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 3 8QUHDOL]HG
   3RWHQWLDO Today's health statistics are the product of an enormous
   national investment over the past century. Most health statistics
   systems were designed decades ago to address the pressing health
   questions of the day using the technology, resources, and structures
   then available. Their evolution has been shaped by a variety of
   institutional and public health pressures.4 Individually, these health
   statistics systems such as data on AIDS and sexually transmitted
   diseases, registries on cancer and other diseases, birth and death
   records, household health surveys, and provider records generally meet
   the needs they were created for, albeit with room for improvement. But
   collectively, as a national system of information on the health of the
   U.S. population, they are deficient. Because they were not planned as a
   unified system, they are a patchwork of data collection systems, both
   duplicative and full of gaps. Although rich national health data are
   collected, they of- ten cannot be broken down to provide information on
   states or localities. Also, because they are collected using different
   methods and definitions, it is often not possible to combine health
   statistics from different states and localities to form a national
   picture, nor to compare states. Local, state, and national data systems
   cannot be combined into a coherent whole. These limitations make it
   difficult, for example, to answer such basic questions as these: * Do
   preventive health measures and medical care have their intended effects
   for individuals, communities, and the nation? * How are society's
   economic and racial inequities affecting the health of commu- nities
   and individuals? * How are environmental hazards affecting local and
   national health? * Who is benefiting most from medical care, and how?
   Who has been left out, and why? What do we need to know and do to
   include the excluded? * What mix of public health measures (e.g.,
   screening, education, attention to food and water safety) and medical
   care would maximize improvements in the population's health? %LUWK RI
   WKH 9LVLRQLQJ 3URFHVV Aware of these limitations and of the tremendous
   information technology capacities now available and feeling pressure to
   address critical information needs Dr. Edward Sondik, Director of the
   Centers for Disease Control's National Center for Health Sta- tistics
   (NCHS), made a challenging request of the National Committee on Vital
   and Health Statistics (NCVHS) in 1998. NCVHS is the public advisory
   committee on national health information policy to the HHS Secretary.
   Dr. Sondik, who is the Secretary's senior health statistics advisor,
   asked the National Committee to help articulate a vision whereby health
   statistics in Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics:
   Interim Report, June 2000 4 the United States could mobilize new
   capacities and fulfill the potential to promote and protect the
   country's health in the 21st century. The Committee rose to the
   challenge. In early 1999, NCVHS and NCHS joined with the HHS Data
   Council to launch a national consultation and visioning process that is
   still underway. The present interim report describes the learning that
   has emerged in the first year. The report will be used to elicit
   further input from more stakeholders about their perceptions of future
   health needs and the best mechanisms for addressing them. The
   overarching goal of the visioning process is to provide the information
   needed to enable the American public to achieve and maintain the best
   possible health. To this end, the visioning process is addressing a
   multifaceted set of questions: * What health information will be needed
   in the 21st century? * What conceptual framework meaningfully organizes
   the information? * What approaches to collection, storage and
   communication will most efficiently get high-quality information where
   it can make a difference? * What privacy, confidentiality and security
   protections must be in place to ensure that information can safely be
   used to promote the public's health? This process calls for three kinds
   of vision: a good eye for detail, wide peripheral vision, and distance
   vision that can see far into the future without depending on outdated
   lenses. In other words, we need an understanding of what it is
   important to know, an appreciation of how best to find out, and a
   vision that can anticipate future needs. The work to envision 21st
   century health statistics is closely related to another NCVHS project,
   that of envisioning and developing the National Health Information
   Infrastructure (NHII).5 The NHII is not to be a unitary database.
   Rather, it is conceived of as a set of policies, practices,
   technologies, standards, and applications that support communication
   and the broad array of information needed to improve clinical care,
   monitor public health, and educate consumers and patients. Community,
   or population, health information the essence and focus of health
   statistics is one dimension of the NHII, overlapping and sharing data
   with the personal and provider dimensions. 3URFHVV 3DUWLFLSDQWV DQG
   3URGXFWV For the health statistics vision, NCVHS, NCHS and the Data
   Council designed a process with many opportunities for consultation
   with a broad range of health statistics users, public health
   professionals, and health care providers from communities around the
   country and abroad. Special priority has been given to hearing state
   and local perspectives, by talking with people who use health
   statistics at state and local levels. The partners also commissioned
   five scholarly papers to contribute to a common understanding of health
   statistics and to help identify what Shaping a Vision for 21st Century
   Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 5 needs improving. (Titles
   and authors are listed in the Appendix.) Key participants in the
   process are listed at the end of this report. The consultative process
   involved these components in 1999 and early 2000: * A total of seven
   workshops and meetings in Harrisburg PA, New Orleans, Albuquerque, and
   Washington, D.C. (Summaries of these meetings and lists of participants
   are posted on the NCVHS Website.6) * Presentations and discussions at
   professional association meetings, including those of the National
   Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems, the
   Association for Health Services Research, the National Association of
   Health Data Organizations, and the Council of State and Territorial
   Epidemi- ologists * Meetings with public health and health statistics
   professionals within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   (ongoing) * A two-day workshop on health statistics hosted in November
   1999 by the Committee on National Statistics of the National Academy of
   Sciences, which also invited papers This consultative process is open
   and ongoing, and efforts are being made to engage many more
   stakeholders. To continue the dialogue, NCVHS plans four regional
   hearings for the last half of 2000 and early 2001. Information on these
   events and on other ways to contribute are outlined on pages 20-21.
   Release of the final Vision document is slated for Summer 2001.
   ,QWHQGHG ,PSDFWV Ten principles have emerged from the consultations
   thus far as key elements of the health statistics vision. These
   principles, which are discussed below (page 15 ff.), will help focus
   future discussions as the consensus about the health statistics Vision
   con- tinues to evolve. They are as follows: 1. The confidentiality of
   health information on individuals must be protected. This precondition
   applies to all other principles listed below. 2. An overarching
   conceptual framework is needed to help organize the different elements
   of the health statistics system. 3. The health statistics system must
   be flexible enough to identify and respond to new information needs. 4.
   Information must be available at a sufficiently detailed level (e.g.,
   geographic area, racial and ethnic subpopulation) to be relevant to
   real decisions. 5. Data standards are essential and should have maximum
   usefulness to public health, health care delivery, health statistics,
   and research. Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics:
   Interim Report, June 2000 6 6. Data should be collected once and then
   used for multiple purposes, using ap- proaches that promote sharing and
   efficiency while protecting privacy and confidentiality. 7. Health
   statistics data must be provided back to communities, community groups,
   local governments, policy makers, health care providers, and others in
   ways that maximize data access and ease of use. 8. Approaches should be
   developed that allow system-wide planning and coordi- nation so that
   resources can be better managed. 9. Health statistics must be
   collected, organized, and made available in ways that inform and
   facilitate decision-making on health. 10. Implementing a broad vision
   for a 21st century health statistics system will only be possible
   through collaboration and partnerships including both public and
   private organizations at the local, state, and national levels. In
   addition to articulating the health statistics Vision, the three-year
   national consultative process is designed to yield a practical
   description of the components of an integrated information system as
   well as ideas about how the Vision can guide local, state and federal
   program planning. The process also seeks to build consensus about
   health statistics priorities, to clarify roles for the levels of
   government and for the public and private sectors, and to identify new
   opportunities for partnership among these components. All of these
   developments will permit a more rational and cost-effective use of
   resources. Participants also will lay out criteria and a process for
   evaluating health statistics systems in the future. :KR :LOO %HQHILW"
   All Americans stand to benefit from a comprehensive and integrated
   health statistics system that, while protecting the privacy of
   individual data, "highlight[s] the distribu- tion of health in relation
   to the distribution of resources directed to maintaining or im- proving
   [it]."7 These benefits will be measured not only in improved health at
   both personal and community levels, but also in more rational and
   cost-effective decision- making and stronger communities. The potential
   beneficiaries include families, com- munity leaders, health care
   professionals and institutions, businesses of all kinds and sizes,
   educators, local health departments, the media, social service
   providers, advo- cacy groups, foundations, and every level and branch
   of government. Such enhancements will enable us to make informed
   decisions about health invest- ments and then evaluate their results.
   Here are a few examples of potential applica- tions: * Billions of
   dollars have been allocated to provide uninsured children with health
   insurance through the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or
   CHIP.8 However, currently there is no way to know what difference this
   is making in their care and health. Better information would permit
   better outreach, better care, better comparisons of different
   approaches, and better monitoring of re- sults. Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 7 *
   Currently, there are many concerns but insufficient knowledge about the
   health impact of toxins in the air, water, and food. With more complete
   information, we could pinpoint harmful sources, study their impact on
   health, design preventive measures, and track their effectiveness. *
   Comprehensive, integrated local data on prenatal care, infant outcomes,
   and infant care would allow community health workers to design more
   effective ap- proaches to prenatal and infant care, and to evaluate the
   performance of pro- grams and providers. * Currently there is no way to
   match the supply of primary care and specialist services to the needs
   of populations. Having this information would make it possible to
   target resources to meet the needs of people in different areas and to
   avoid excesses that generate unnecessary costs for the public. :+$7
   :(¶9( /($51(' 62 )$5 75(1'6 $1' *$36 6+$3,1* 7+( 9,6,21 As noted, this
   report outlines the themes that have emerged in consultations over the
   last year about current and emerging health issues, health information
   needs associated with these trends, and roles and responsibilities for
   providing information and statistics. The perspectives and experiences
   of the participants are reflected in the summaries that follow. The
   primary questions to bear in mind as we look at these trends, issues,
   and knowledge gaps are how these forces will shape future information
   needs, and how a well-defined vision and unified approach might
   strengthen the country's ability to address the trends. 6RFLRHFRQRPLF
   'HPRJUDSKLF DQG (QYLURQPHQWDO )DFWRUV Perhaps the strongest theme of
   the discussions to date has been the need for a broad definition of
   health, and the need to look further than the presence of disease or
   the pursuit of medical care in order to understand the health of the
   population. This means understanding the effects and interactions of
   the cultural, socio-economic, and environmental domains in which we all
   live. What trends in these domains are likely to shape future needs and
   opportunities? What will we want to know about them with respect to
   health?9 Key demographic factors include an aging population10 and
   changes in household composition (e.g., there are fewer children, more
   single parents, and more single-sex households).11 Important
   socio-economic factors in the U.S. include growing gaps be- tween the
   resources available to the wealthy and to the non-wealthy, greater
   differen- tials in economic and social status, more self-employment and
   less job security, and an increase in the percentage of the population
   that is poor, including the working poor.12 Shaping a Vision for 21st
   Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 8 Other
   significant trends are the increasing racial and ethnic complexity of
   American life,13 with wide ethnic variations in health status within
   racial groups (e.g., among Cambodians, Japanese, and Vietnamese) and
   the growing percentage of multi-racial families; the resurgence of
   attention to social support as important to health and health
   statistics; and a rising awareness (and possibly growing presence) of
   environ- mental threats to health. Knowledge Gaps To address these
   socioeconomic, demographic, and environmental trends, we need to close
   the following knowledge gaps, among others, at all geographic levels: *
   Ongoing data on economic status, education, language, immigrant status,
   the availability of social supports, and the relation of each to health
   status * Socio-economic and health data on various racial and ethnic
   groups * Data on specific environmental factors such as lead and ozone
   and their impact on health * Mechanisms for collecting longitudinal
   data to help us understand emerging trends and threats to the
   population's health, and mechanisms for sharing and linking
   information, with adequate privacy protections * Better ways to
   characterize the complex interactions among the factors that af- fect
   health 7KH +HDOWK RI 3RSXODWLRQV Vision discussions to date have noted
   the rise of chronic illness and the growing prevalence of new and newly
   recognized communicable diseases as important trends in the health of
   the American population. Serious disparities exist among people in
   various groups for example, between certain racial and ethnic groups
   and between economic levels in the prevalence and severity of specific
   diseases and in access to and receipt of appropriate treatment.
   Additional data are needed at all geographic levels to track new
   efforts to eliminate the disparities a major goal of the HHS Healthy
   People 2010 objectives.14 Knowledge Gaps To address health trends
   affecting populations, the following gaps must be filled, among others:
   * Ongoing information in all categories about small geographic areas
   such as small towns and urban neighborhoods * Information, especially
   at state and local levels, about specific population groups e.g.,
   racial and ethnic minority groups (especially Asian and Hispanic
   Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report,
   June 2000 9 groups), children, the aged, migrants, the working poor and
   nonworking poor, and people with disabilities * Information on
   individuals related to comorbidity, mental and behavioral health, and
   health status including their functional status with respect to
   physical abilities and cognitive functioning and their access to
   devices or other means of assisting their functioning +HDOWK &DUH WKH
   +HDOWK 6HUYLFHV 'HOLYHU\ ´6\VWHP ´ DQG +HDOWK &DUH 6HHNLQJ Discussions
   to date have stressed that health care services at the start of the
   21st century are delivered not within a system but by a disparate and
   rapidly changing array of institutions and relationships. In terms of
   information, the most important criticism is that too much of the data
   now collected is useful only nationally, or only for paying for health
   services. When the data are used for other purposes, they often produce
   misleading information. Business trends in health care are toward
   capitation,15 consolidation, and reliance on market mechanisms with
   important implications for what information is collected, and how. In
   clinical care, two major trends are the growing interest in
   evidence-based medicine and the growing use of expensive, high-tech
   solutions to medical problems. Other trends are the provision of care
   outside traditional inpatient settings and pressures away from
   specialty care and toward primary care. There is growing attention in
   the U.S. to outcomes and quality issues at least partly in response to
   payer demand, public policy, and media attention. Yet little of the
   information that is currently collected is useful for these issues. For
   example, data on hospitalizations is collected completely separately
   from data collected in other health care settings or by surveys, and
   these various sources cannot be linked to provide a cogent picture of
   health needs and how they are being met. In terms of health care
   seeking by consumers, a significant number of Americans are choosing
   alternative forms of treatment, some of unproven usefulness and
   possible harm. Consumers also are seeking information on the Web,
   engaging in self-care, and participating in self-help/mutual aid
   groups. Knowledge Gaps In addition to those noted above, knowledge gaps
   related to health services delivery lie in the following areas, among
   others: * The relationship between the population's health and relative
   investments in primary care and ambulatory specialty care * The
   effectiveness for the population's health of specific medical
   interventions purported to improve health (Examples: What are the
   implications for survival of radical prostatectomy compared to
   brachytherapy? How much of the explo- sion in new and expensive drugs
   really improves people's health and well- Shaping a Vision for 21st
   Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 10 being? Is the
   increasing cost of health insurance compromising health? What types of
   care produce the best results for the health of the population?) *
   Information to determine whether the demonstrated benefits of
   surgeries, drug treatments, and putative quality of life enhancements
   extend to all people * The effectiveness of investments in preventive
   services versus curative services * Information about the types of
   services available to local populations and the balance among them *
   The impact of adverse effects of medical care on the health of the
   population * Data on alternative therapies (e.g., procedures,
   providers, consumer care- seeking) The fragmentation of health care
   delivery today makes it essential to have integrated, effective
   information systems in order to understand the health care system and
   how people fare in it. Without this, we lack a composite picture of the
   preventive and treatment interventions given to individuals or to
   communities making it impossible to evaluate the effectiveness of
   health services. Tying together information on communities, events,
   people, providers, and health outcomes from different sources can help
   create more integrated services and improve efficiency and quality.
   6FLHQWLILF 5HVHDUFK Scientific research provides the evidence base, the
   stimulus for, and the means of evaluating both public health practice
   and clinical care. However, some scientific trends raise questions that
   merit a close look in the context of population health. The development
   and use of technology is proceeding at great expense to the nation and
   without a clear picture of its contributions to improving health. In
   the 21st century, the impact of current investigations into the human
   genome will unfold in a host of new approaches to screening and
   therapy. These developments have major implications for future
   information needs, not only in clinical areas but also in broader ones
   related to family, culture, education, ethics, and social policy.
   Knowledge Gaps Keeping up with the public health ramifications of
   scientific research will require more information in the following
   areas, among others: * A population-based assessment of the outcomes of
   various high-tech interven- tions, to evaluate the outcomes of large
   investments in comparison with alter- native uses of resources *
   Information with which to evaluate whether demonstrated benefits (e.g.,
   of ge- netic research) extend to all segments of the population Shaping
   a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000
   11 3XEOLF 3ROLF\ DQG $GYRFDF\ Congress affirmed the importance of
   standardized information and administrative simplification (and of the
   NCVHS advisory role) in provisions of the 1996 Health Insurance
   Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Elsewhere in the public
   policy arena, an important trend in the 1990s was the devolution of tax
   money and program responsibility to states. This devolution compounds
   the historic decentralization that has interfered with the building of
   national health statistics and therefore of informed public policy.
   This is especially the case with regard to consistent privacy
   protections and comparable information on the health status of all
   segments of the population. The shift to the states intensifies the
   need to clarify the respective health statistics roles of local, state,
   and federal governments so their activities can be complementary. A
   striking trend in the late 20th and early 21st centuries is the upsurge
   of sophisticated advocacy groups intent on influencing policy. The
   American Association of Retired Persons, the National Alliance for the
   Mentally Ill, food safety and environmental organizations, and privacy
   advocates are notable examples. The media play a major role in this
   arena by directly supplying consumers with information (and sometimes
   misinformation) about health and health policy and the factors
   affecting them. ,QIRUPDWLRQ 7HFKQRORJ\ Today's exploding information
   capacities make it possible to store great amounts of information and
   retrieve and share it quickly. By permitting rapid communication
   between data providers and health agencies, technology enables public
   health workers to promptly address local or national health problems,
   and to get information out to the public. In clinical care, the
   computer-based patient record is likely to become a mainstay. These and
   other capabilities promise such boons as the extension of medical care
   to people living in remote places, rapid response to public health
   emergencies, direct communication to the public about the measures
   individuals and families can take, and access for health care providers
   to patients' medical records from any location when it is needed to
   deal adequately and promptly with their problems. For some people,
   these capabilities raise the specter of lost privacy and the abuse of
   personal information a concern discussed below. Another issue related
   to information technology is the gulf between technological haves and
   have-nots, a byproduct of the country's social, economic and
   educational disparities. While some people are able to find information
   and use it to make informed decisions about their health, others lack
   the equipment and skills to do so. These are issues of access that must
   be monitored and addressed along with access to care, as information
   becomes ever more central to health. Certainly, realizing both the NHII
   and health statistics visions will depend on the continued development
   and equitable distribution of information technology. Shaping a Vision
   for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 12 :+$7
   :(¶9( /($51(' 62 )$5 &5266 &877,1* ,668(6 6+$3,1* 7+( 9,6,21 3ULYDF\
   DQG WKH &RPPRQ *RRG As a new century begins, Americans are coming to
   terms with the enormous potential for abuse inherent in modern
   technology. Information sharing is a two-edged sword: used in the right
   way and for the right reasons, it can save lives; used in the wrong way
   or for the wrong reasons, it can ruin them. Health statistics data are
   clearly important to communities, public health profession- als, health
   care providers, researchers, the media, and policy makers. For most
   pur- poses, these data can be shared in an aggregated form that
   protects the privacy of individuals. For some clinical and public
   health purposes, it may be necessary to share individual record-level
   data under strict procedures for confidentiality. Although the evidence
   suggests that health statistics systems have done a good job of
   protecting confidentiality, there is still fear and even some risk that
   individuals can be identified and their information misused. The
   greatest concern is that records collected, created, or compiled for
   statistical purposes might be used to make substantive determinations
   about individuals or groups by law enforcement, insurers, employers, or
   others. The concerns about privacy violations must be taken seriously.
   At the same time, other important considerations should be recognized:
   that the confidentiality of paper records is equally or even more in
   question than that of electronic records, and that information
   technology actually can be used to enhance privacy protections.
   Furthermore, if fears about privacy undermine people's willingness to
   allow even limited access to or use of personal information for
   important public health purposes, the result can be incomplete
   information, leading to wrong policy decisions and wrong public health
   interventions. A Vision for 21st century health statistics must address
   all these factors and strike a balance between individuals' desire for
   privacy and the imperative to improve everyone's health a need that
   cannot be met, as we have seen, without information on such things as
   communicable disease, health hazards, and treatment outcomes. The issue
   to be resolved is how we can create adequate protections against
   inappropriate access and the abuse of personal information while at the
   same time preserving controlled access for public health agencies,
   health care providers, researchers, and others who need information in
   order to care for and improve our health. Those with a vision for
   health statistics agree on the need for a two-pronged approach to this
   critical issue. First, and most important, the country must have strong
   national and state legislation that implements fair information
   practices and establishes strong punishments for abuses. Increased
   sharing of data is inappropriate without increased protections for the
   privacy of individuals. In order to allow for increased sharing and
   linkage of data, we need health statistics privacy laws that prevent
   individual health statistics records from being accessed and used by
   police, prosecutors, employers, Shaping a Vision for 21st Century
   Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 13 insurance companies,
   marketers, and others who might use the data in a way that adversely
   affects the subjects of the data. Second, Americans and their
   policy-makers need to become more aware of the ways in which we all
   depend on health statistics; and those responsible for health
   statistics must ensure that health statistics tell Americans what they
   need and want to know about their health. 1HJRWLDWLQJ %RXQGDULHV
   3URSULHWDU\ *RYHUQPHQWDO DQG 2WKHU A central task in realizing the
   health statistics Vision is to find ways, within the con- text of
   privacy protections, to link data that now exist in separate "silos."
   Consistent and controlled access to data from various sources are
   necessary because at present, it is difficult to do any of the
   following important forms of analysis: * link or share data from
   different sites of care (hospitals/nursing homes/ am- bulatory care) *
   understand the relationships between health status, health
   determinants, and health services * link data from surveys and
   administrative and encounter data * link complementary data from
   private and public databases * combine comparable data from local,
   state, and federal systems Because most data systems were created to
   address specific needs, with no common framework or consensus on an
   overall "system," it has been difficult to compare or link data between
   data systems. There are many reasons for this difficulty: constraints
   on the use of specific data sets to compensate for inadequate national
   privacy protections, differing practices and systems within branches
   and levels of government, the way data elements are defined and coded,
   and the technical complexity of combining data collected with different
   methodologies. It should be understood that the goal is not to replace
   the data "silos" of today with some sort of consolidated mega-database
   the mythical "Central Database in the Sky." Rather, the goal is to
   provide controlled mechanisms for accessing and combining data from
   different sources for defined public health purposes. (This conception
   is much like that for the National Health Information Infrastructure.)
   Such linkages could en- hance understanding of the causes of ill health
   and what to do about them. They also could make our statistical system
   more efficient, less burdensome to data providers, and more responsive
   to emerging data needs. With a concerted effort, it should be possible
   to remove unnecessary barriers to an integrated, efficient system. The
   barriers can be overcome by greater attention to stan- dardization and
   comparability, improvements in technology, and creative approaches to
   making data available for analytic use in ways that do not jeopardize
   individual pri- vacy.16 Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health
   Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 14 Similar effort will be
   required to overcome the philosophical and practical differences
   preventing greater consistency, sharing, and integration across public
   and private en- tities. While many of our most historically useful data
   systems have been conducted by public agencies for public purposes, an
   increasing array of health information ini- tiatives originate in the
   private sector, where data are initially justified as being useful for
   proprietary or institutional purposes. While these data could be of
   great use if placed in the public domain, it is not always clear that
   private organizations have the necessary incentives or protections to
   make data widely available. Similarly, data de- rived from systems
   established for non-statistical purposes (e.g., payment systems) can be
   of broader use, but may not be readily converted to a useful form. A
   well func- tioning health statistics system must find ways to encourage
   such mutually suppor- tive collaborations. 'DWD 4XDOLW\ ,VVXHV Data
   quality suffers now because of the lack of standardized terminology,
   definitions, concepts, transmission formats, analysis, and
   dissemination. The multiplicity of to- day's data sources makes it
   necessary to pay close attention to the quality of each source and its
   specific limits and capabilities. Ensuring future data quality will
   involve improving the quality of records through technology and
   education of data providers. For example, technology can contribute to
   improved quality by permitting automatic querying while data are being
   collected, rather than afterwards when incompleteness and inaccuracy
   are more difficult to correct. In addition, surveys need to be improved
   by investment in survey research, cognitive research, and evaluation.
   5HVRXUFH DQG %XUGHQ ,VVXHV Looking back at the characterization of
   health statistics on the early pages of this report, we see that the
   lack of comprehensive planning has resulted in gaps, duplication, and
   high cost. More analysis is needed to tease apart where additional
   resources are needed and where they simply need to be used more
   efficiently in the ways outlined below. Currently, the burden of data
   collection and reporting undermines both data quality and data
   providers' willingness to expand collection to include the many other
   elements on which information is needed. Burden is a concern not only
   for health care providers and their organizations, but also for local
   public health officials, especially those with inadequate technology
   and other resources. A related issue of concern to planners is the
   shortage of adequately trained personnel to analyze and interpret the
   data collected. Underlying all of these concerns is the need for
   sustained support from knowledgeable policy-makers who understand the
   importance of health statistics. This, in turn, highlights the need to
   provide Americans and their leaders with useful information on the
   public's health status, health determinants, and health care. Shaping a
   Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 15
   ,17(51$7,21$/ '(9(/230(176 International trends are favorable for the
   U.S. health statistics visioning process, with many countries engaged
   in parallel efforts to enhance their health information capacity. As in
   the U.S., these efforts are closely and explicitly tied to the goal of
   improving national health. Many of the same themes being addressed in
   the U.S., as reflected in this paper, are emerging in other countries'
   efforts. There is also strong momentum toward collaboration and mutual
   learning in health information among countries. For example, the U.S.
   can learn a great deal from other countries about privacy protections.
   All of the countries described below have national privacy laws and
   data protection agencies.17 The United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada
   all provide valuable models and opportunities for collaboration. *
   England's National Health Service (NHS) has been at work on its Health
   Care Model since the early 1980s, supported by a government that
   understands investment in information technology as essential overhead
   for health care. The NHS published its information strategy,
   Information for Health, in 1998.18 * In Australia,19 the Commonwealth,
   six states and two territories have signed a National Health
   Information Agreement that provides a cooperative framework for the
   collection, quality, and dissemination of national health information
   in that country. The agreement has produced a National Health
   Information Management Group and other bodies, as well as a national
   health information model, data dictionary, and knowledge base. *
   Canadians began a systematic examination of their health information
   needs in the early 1990s. This led in 1998 to a broad consultative
   process, coordinated by the Canadian Institute for Health Information
   and aimed at crafting a "National Health Information Roadmap" to
   support the country's health objectives. 20 These activities have led
   to substantial new pilot funding from the Canadian government for
   implementation of the Roadmap. Despite the differences in health care
   delivery systems, Canada's health statistics have developed much like
   those in the U.S., and they have similar inadequacies in terms of their
   completeness, compatibility, and usefulness. The consultations and
   theoretical work going into Canadian Roadmap development and the
   commitment to providing Canadians with accessible, useful information
   offer valuable models for our country's visioning process and its
   products. * The European Union issued a Privacy Directive in 1998,
   intensifying the pressure on the U.S. to strengthen its own privacy
   protections. European nations have had a framework for addressing
   privacy since 1980, when the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
   Development (OECD) issued Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and
   Transborder Flows of Personal Data. These guidelines cover such topics
   as limitations on data collection and use, specification of purpose,
   openness, and accountability. Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health
   Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 16 35,1&,3/(6 )25 7+( 67 &(1785<
   9,6,21 In discussions thus far, the following 10 principles have
   emerged as qualities that participants see as essential to developing
   the health statistics Vision. Future discus- sions will continue to
   hone the description of central principles. 3ULYDF\ &RQILGHQWLDOLW\
   6HFXULW\ DQG )DLU ,QIRUPDWLRQ 3UDFWLFHV Protecting the privacy and
   confidentiality of personal health data is of highest impor- tance.
   This precondition applies to all other principles discussed below. The
   National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics issued
   recommendations to the Secretary on the privacy of medical records in
   mid-1997.21 The NCVHS recommendations were echoed in those the
   Secretary made to Congress later that year, and in other Congressional
   testimony. Then in 1999, the Department fulfilled a HIPAA requirement
   and issued proposed regulations for protecting the privacy of
   individually identifiable health information that is electronically
   transmitted in connection with administrative and financial
   transactions. NCVHS has offered formal comments on the proposed
   regulations.22 The Committee's 1997 privacy recommendations to the
   Secretary and the Department's proposed 1999 regulations constitute an
   important step forward in protecting health information privacy. But
   additional national and state steps are necessary beyond this initial
   focus on electronically transmitted administrative and financial data,
   especially directed toward protecting the privacy, confidentiality, and
   security of all data used for health statistics. Necessary protections
   for the privacy and confidentiality of health statistics data would
   involve a number of essential factors: adherence to strict new national
   and state legislation; the use of fair information practices that
   explicate and control data access, sharing and handling; technical
   security measures within every organization handling data; sanctions
   and punishment for misuse and abuse; sophisticated approaches to
   releasing data to avoid inadvertent disclosure of individually
   identifiable information; and new approaches to using technology to
   enable data sharing while protecting pri- vacy. Linkages of anonymized
   or fully de-identified individual record data, or of aggre- gated data
   for small areas, must be done in ways that protect privacy and
   confidentiality. Linkages of individual record data must occur within a
   newly estab- lished legal framework, with appropriate human subject
   review board approval or permission from data subjects. In general,
   research is needed to find technological approaches that enable data
   sharing while protecting confidentiality. At the same time, Americans
   and their leaders must tackle the difficult questions about the
   conditions under which the potential benefits to society justify
   assuming the small risk associated with using information for purposes
   such as research and public health monitoring. Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 17 &RQFHSWXDO
   )UDPHZRUN Other sections of this report discuss the many facets of
   health and its determinants and the chronic problems of fragmentation
   and artificial boundaries within health statistics. Future health
   statistics need an overarching conceptual framework that encompasses
   all the relevant aspects of the population's health and reflects their
   interactions. An exemplary model has been developed by Evans and
   Stoddart and adapted by Charlyn Black and her colleagues.23,24 Combined
   with an integrated national implementation strategy, such a framework
   would guide data collection and aid in the rational and efficient
   deployment of information to address health concerns. The framework
   would make it possible to expand beyond the medical, infectious
   disease, and vital statistics models that can restrict the uses of
   information to understand and address health needs. )OH[LELOLW\ WR
   ,GHQWLI\ DQG $GGUHVV (PHUJHQW ,VVXHV DQG WKH +HDOWK 1HHGV RI WKH
   3RSXODWLRQ 21st century health statistics must be able to identify and
   meet new information needs as they arise. Knowledge gaps are a moving
   target, not static. Even with good "dis- tance vision" that sees far
   into the future, unanticipated population health needs are sure to
   arise, and health statistics systems will need mechanisms for
   addressing them. The same is true for newly emerging issues and topics
   with relevance to health and health care. Examples of contemporary
   issues are the upsurge in the use of alternative medicine and
   heightened concerns about adverse effects and medical errors. In
   addition to being able to identify new information needs and emerging
   issues, health statistics must be structured so that new information
   and new categories of information can be easily incorporated.
   8VHIXOQHVV DW 'LIIHUHQW /HYHOV RI $JJUHJDWLRQ Statistical systems need
   to provide information in sufficient detail to support decision-
   making. While many existing statistical systems provide rich resources
   for analysis and action at the national level and for the population as
   a whole, increasing levels of detail both geographic and demographic
   are increasingly critical. The identification of health problems,
   needs, and interventions is increasingly a local function. Data from
   the national and state level often provide only a rough outline of real
   problems faced in individual communities, and cannot provide data to
   evaluate interventions that may be unique to a given area. Similarly,
   health problems, health care access, and health outcomes can be quite
   different for different racial and ethnic subpopulations. Health
   officials need data in fine-enough detail to understand health
   differentials and design effective interventions. Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 18 The
   potential costs of meeting all data needs for example, for each of
   multiple racial and ethnic subgroups in each local area are daunting,
   and it is unlikely that all needs will be met. An important challenge
   for the health statistics system will be to develop an overall
   information framework that takes these and other detailed needs into
   account, while recognizing the expense and technical difficulty in
   obtaining such data. &RPSDWLEOH 6WDQGDUGV 6HUYLQJ 0XOWLSOH 3XUSRVHV
   Standards are a necessary precondition for data sharing, linkage, and
   interoperability. However, only compatible, non-duplicative standards
   that simultaneously serve clinical, administrative, public health
   surveillance, and health statistics purposes will permit the kind of
   information systems and decision-making that are envisioned for the
   future. The last decade has seen a proliferation of standards for
   relatively narrow purposes, and in some cases conflicting standards for
   a single purpose. This multiplicity is an impediment to developing an
   integrated and efficient information infrastructure. Standards are
   still needed in many areas for example, administrative data for
   monitoring care provided by health plans and public health personnel;
   race/ethnicity classifications; definitions of households; and
   geocoding. Both modification of existing standards and development of
   new ones should be governed by the principle of serving multiple
   purposes. 8QLWDU\ 'DWD &ROOHFWLRQ IRU 0XOWLSOH 3XUSRVHV The principle
   of collecting data once and then using the data for many purposes is
   the key to solving many of the current problems with statistics burden,
   resource constraints, fragmentation, and so on. The multiple purposes
   for which unitary data collection could be used include clinical care,
   health services research, administration, public health programs,
   public health surveillance, and population health monitoring. Strong
   legal protections to safeguard confidentiality and privacy, carefully
   structured data sharing agreements, and appropriate protocols for
   implementing the legal protections and data sharing agreements will all
   be necessary if we are to achieve unitary data collection for multiple
   purposes. Equally essential will be the right conceptual framework and
   organizational mechanisms. 0D[LPXP $FFHVV DQG (DVH RI 8VH In order to
   improve the public's health and community decision-making about
   population health programs and priorities, health statistics data must
   be provided back to communities, community groups, local governments,
   and health care providers in ways that maximize data access and ease of
   use. If health statistics are to play their role in improving the
   population's health, the users of health statistics data Shaping a
   Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 19
   cannot be confined to epidemiologists, statisticians, and other public
   health professionals. To maximize access and ease of use, health
   statistics must be presented understandably, and for a wide range of
   local audiences. Useful and useable data must be provided to local
   communities in useful formats. Producers of health statistics must
   recognize that different presentations and modes of access to health
   statistics will be needed for different types of users. Current
   approaches to providing local health statistics data must be expanded
   upon, such as regularly updated hard copy community health profiles and
   user-friendly, interactive Web-based health statistics information
   services.25 Paradoxically, a health statistics system based on the
   principles described here will be simultaneously more simple and more
   complex than our current patchwork of data collection systems. On the
   one hand, the work of data providers (e.g., hospitals, physicians,
   HMOs, and neighborhood health centers) should be simplified by the
   adoption of standards and the elimination of duplicative reporting of
   the same data for billing and administration, multiple "silo"
   surveillance systems, and clinical purposes. The work of the end users
   of health statistics data (including community groups, public health
   professionals, policy makers, community groups, and researchers) also
   should be simplified, because of the increased understandability
   introduced by compatible, multi-purpose standards for what are
   currently called administrative, clinical, and health statistics and
   surveillance data. On the other hand, the work of the data collectors
   (including state and federal agencies) may become more complex, due to
   several factors: the need to carefully structure data distribution and
   sharing partnerships that conform to new legal requirements, the need
   to manage agreements on compatible data standards, and the need to
   scrupulously adhere to new security and confidentiality protocols.
   $GHTXDWH :HOO 0DQDJHG 5HVRXUFHV As has been noted, some of what is
   perceived as inadequate funding is in fact a func- tion of a lack of an
   overarching framework or mechanism for system-wide planning and
   coordination, and a resulting suboptimal use of existing resources.
   Nevertheless, it is also the case that a strong health statistics
   infrastructure will depend on ade- quate, stable, and predictable
   funding. 3ROLF\ 5HOHYDQFH As noted elsewhere, health statistics exist
   so that decision-makers of all kinds can promote and monitor the health
   of individuals and communities and anticipate or respond to problems.
   Information that is useful to policy makers will help clarify what the
   right questions are with respect to health and provide "actionable"
   answers in a timely, accessible, and usable manner. Tying information
   to national, state and local objectives, such as in the Healthy People
   2000 and 2010 process, can be an excellent way to shine light on
   information gaps and to make data useful to policymakers. Finally,
   health statistics must be evaluated continually for their utility in
   informing policy. Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics:
   Interim Report, June 2000 20 %URDG &ROODERUDWLRQ Implementing the
   health statistics Vision will require the full participation not only
   of the government agencies responsible for public health but also of
   related government agencies, many facets of the private sector, the
   media, local community leaders, and individual citizens. Because
   implementing the Vision will depend on multi-party part- nerships,
   mechanisms that elicit the views of stakeholders and provide ways for
   them to collaborate and contribute will be as important as the other
   mechanisms discussed above. The potential collaborators include the
   following: * Local, state, and federal government (with clear
   delineation of roles and respon- sibilities) * Private sector
   organizations (e.g., health industry, media, advocacy groups, local and
   national health coalitions, information technology/informatics
   industries] * Related sectors (education, housing, justice,
   transportation, environmental protection, health, alternative health,
   nutrition) * A public constituency: citizens and leaders who recognize
   the essential role of health statistics and help shape decisions about
   their collection and use 1(;7 67(36 As we have stressed, this is an
   evolving Vision that is still coming into focus. To fulfill the goal of
   allowing all Americans and all American communities to achieve and
   maintain the best possible health, the Vision must reflect true
   national priorities and perspectives. It also must include specific
   suggestions for local, state, and national action by both private and
   public entities. The more the Vision represents the views of community
   leaders, public health workers, health professionals, data users, and
   policy-makers in communities across the nation, the more valid and
   useful it will be. Therefore, we need and welcome your input on any and
   all aspects. You may convey your input in any of the following ways: *
   On the Web (WWW.NCVHS.HHS.GOV/HSVISION) * Through e-mail
   (HSVISION@CDC.GOV) and other written comments (to this address: Health
   Statistics Vision, National Center for Health Statistics, 6525 Belcrest
   Road, Room 1120, Hyattsville, MD 20782) * At one of the four NCVHS
   hearings (see below) * At conferences and meetings where the Vision is
   being discussed * Through your organization or association Shaping a
   Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 21
   The following events and milestones lie ahead: * Hearings (Summer/Fall
   2000. The first will be in Chicago on July 10. Sub- sequent hearings
   will be announced on the Website.) * Another draft of the health
   statistics Vision (Winter 2000) * Final Vision report (Spring/Summer
   2001) * Use of the health statistics Vision to guide program plans at
   local, state, and federal levels * Ongoing consultations with key
   stakeholders This report was written by Susan Baird Kanaan 67$)),1* $1'
   6833257 NCVHS Workgroup on Health Statistics for the 21st Century
   Daniel J. Friedman, Ph.D., Chair Paul Newacheck, Dr.P.H. Barbara
   Starfield, M.D., M.P.H. Gerry E. Hendershot, Ph.D., Lead Workgroup
   Staff National Center for Health Statistics, CDC Ed Sondik, Ph.D.,
   Director Lisa Broitman, Program Analyst Marjorie Greenberg, Chief, Data
   Policy and Standards Staff Debbie Jackson, Senior Program Analyst Ed
   Hunter, Associate Director for Planning, Budget, and Legislation Rob
   Weinzimer, Chief, Data Dissemination Branch Dana Silverman, Program
   Analyst Brenda Mitchell, M.D., M.P.H., Preventive Medicine Resident HHS
   Data Council Jim Scanlon, Executive Secretary Shaping a Vision for 21st
   Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 22 127(6 1 King
   County Health Action Plan, Community Benefits, Recommendations and
   Actions. http://www.metrokc.gov/health/phnr/hap_commbenefits_rec.htm. 2
   United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Forecasted
   state-specific estimates of self-reported Asthma Prevalence-1998.
   Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. (Dec. 4, 1998) 47:1022-1025. 3
   Topic of the month, Pediatric Asthma. AAAAI.
   http://www.aaaai.org/misc/topicofthemonth/1299.stm 4 Friede A, Blum H,
   and McDonald M. Public Health Informatics: How Information Age
   Technology Can Strengthen Public Health. Annual Review of Public Health
   l995. 16:239-52. 5 See the NCVHS June, 2000 paper on the NHII vision,
   Better Information for Better Health: Toward a National Health
   Information Infrastructure. 6 WWW.NCVHS.HHS.GOV/HSVISION 7 Black C,
   Roos N, and Roos L, "From Health Statistics to Health Information
   Systems: A New Path for the 21st Century," p. 11 (commissioned paper).
   8 Closing the Gap, State Children's Health Insurance Program, Providing
   Coverage to Nearly Two Million. http://www.omhrc.gov/ctg/chip.pdf 9
   Evans RG, Barer ML, and Marmor TR, Editors. Why Are Some People Healthy
   and Others Not? The Determi- nants of Health of Populations. New York:
   Aldine De Gruyter, 1994. 10 Administration on Aging, Aging into the
   21st Century, Demographic Changes. Jacob Siegel.
   (http://www.aoa.dhhs.gov/aoa/stats/aging21/demography.html#Growth) 11
   Urban Institute All under One Roof: Mixed-Status Families in an Era of
   Reform By Michael Fix and Wendy Zimmermann, June 1999.
   http://www.urban.org/immig/all_under.html. 12 Who is Poor, l998 Green
   Book. http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/irp/faq3.htm 13 Closing the Gap, Moving
   Towards Consensus on Cultural Competency.
   http://www.omhrc.gov/ctg/competence3new.pdf 14 U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, 2000. Healthy People 2010. Conference
   Edition in Two Vol- umes. Washington, D.C., Government Printing Office.
   15 Ginsburg, Paul, Ph.D. As the System Changes, Health Policy Expert
   Sees Positives and Negatives, MDOp- tions.com, Sept. l998.
   (http://mdoptions.com/cgi-local/display_article_short.cgi?670) 16
   "Integrating Public Health Information and Surveillance Systems," A
   Report and Recommendations from the CDC/ATSDR Steering Committee on
   Public Health Information and Surveillance System Development, Spring
   1995, US Department of Health and Human Services. 17 International
   developments are explored in detail in a commissioned paper by Jennifer
   Zellmer et al., "Recent Developments in Health Information: An
   International Perspective," which was used as a source in writing this
   sec- tion. 18 National Health Service Information for Health: An
   Information Strategy for the Modern NHS, 1998-2005.
   (http://www.nhsia.nhs.uk/strategy/index.htm) 19 www.AIHW.gov.au 20
   Canadian Institute for Health Information. Health Information Roadmap:
   Responding to Needs. http:www.cihi.ca 21 The Committee's
   recommendations are posted on the NCVHS Website. Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 23 22
   February 7, 2000, Recommendations on the notice of proposed rule-making
   for standards for privacy of individu- ally identifiable health
   information. Posted on NCVHS Website. 23 RG Evans and GL Stoddart,
   "Producing Health, Consuming Health Care," in RG Evans, Ml Barer, and
   TR Mar- mor, editors, Why are some people health and others not? The
   determinants of health of populations, New York: Aldine De Gruyter 1994
   , pp. 27-64. 24 Black C, Roos N, and Roos L, "From Health Statistics to
   Health Information Systems: A New Path for the 21st Century," p. 11
   (commissioned paper). 25 Institute of Medicine, Committee on Using
   Performance Monitoring to Improve Community Health. Improving health in
   the community: a role for performance monitoring. Jane S. Durch, Linda
   A. Bailey, and Michael A. Stoto, editors. 1997 $33(1',; 3$3(56
   &200,66,21(' )25 7+( 9,6,21,1* 352&(66 Charlyn Black, Noralou Roos, and
   Leslie Roos (University of Manitoba) "From Health Statistics to Health
   Information Systems: A New Path for the 21st Century" Lorraine V.
   Klerman (School of Public Health, University of Alabama at Birmingham)
   "The State Children's Health Insurance Program: A Case Study with
   additional material on Data Needs in the Area of Child Health" Richard
   Kronick (Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of
   California, San Diego) "Numbers We Need: Health Statistics and Policy"
   Daniel Melnick "Building Robust Statistical Systems for Health"
   Jennifer Zelmer, Shazeen Virani, and Richard Alverez (Canadian
   Institute for Health Information) "Recent Developments in Health
   Information: An International Perspective " Shaping a Vision for 21st
   Century Health Statistics: Interim Report, June 2000 24
