http://sensorwebs.jpl.nasa.gov/overview/overview.html

   [banner.jpg]
   SensorWebs Overview


   [leftone.gif]
   Home Page
   Overview
   Kids
   Popular Press
   Science and Technology
   Links
   Contact

   [dot-grey.gif]

                                  NASA logo

   JPL logo



    [onepixel.gif] Applications [onepixel.gif] Technology [onepixel.gif]
                          Deployment [onepixel.gif]

   [horizbar.gif]

                             Sensor Web Overview

   Imagine a wireless network of tiny freestanding sensors scattered
   around several kilometers of land, perhaps across the surface of Mars
   or tucked into the landscape of a lush rain forest. Each walnut-sized
   sensor pod looks like a ping pong ball, with a weight inside so it sits
   bottom down, exposing its solar panels to the sky.

   Pod Inside each pod resides in a rugged combination of minute
   instruments on microchips, each programmed to collect a different
   measurement, such as temperature, humidity or air pressure. There's
   even Instruments an electronic nose (Enose) needed for sniffing out
   different types of gases. All the information gathered from the
   location of each sensor is quickly relayed through the Sensor Web
   network of internal transceivers to a central uplink, where the
   accumulated data is uploaded to a computer, compiled and analyzed by a
   scientist sitting in a comfortable office.

   A Sensor Web would be a relatively cheap instrument to use, because
   sensor pods could be mass-produced, taking advantage of the economies
   of scale. Because of this affordability, individual sensor pods could
   be regarded as expendable. As a further consequence, it would be
   possible to reseed a Sensor Web with fresh nodes to replace ones that
   have failed or were lost. Thus, the Sensor Web could be repeatedly
   renewed, enabling it to operate for an indefinitely long time.

   Sensor Webs could be made as dense as desired by simply distributing as
   many nodes as needed over a given survey area. Redundancy would, of
   course, render the Sensor Web tolerant to failures or the loss of
   individual pods. High density distribution could also be utilized to
   achieve high resolution and to obtain statistically significant numbers
   of data when surveying biological or other phenomena that are
   inherently random.

   One of the JPL Sensor Web Project major objectives is to support the
   NASA goal of establishing a virtual presence throughout the solar
   system. Sensor Webs may play a critical role in meeting this objective.
   Like remote planetary measurements obtained by satellites and
   telescopes today, the webs allow large areas to be monitored in the
   future. Unlike traditional remote operations, Sensor Webs are Data
   Correlation placed inside the environment - thus making them capable of
   on-site detection not possible at a distance. For example, satellite
   measurements cannot penetrate deep below the ocean surface or detect
   trace quantities of gases evolving off a planetary surface. The Sensor
   Webs could provide both the coverage of a satellite with the precision
   of an in-situ planetary exploration instrument.

   Demostrate Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) scientists are at work
   refining prototypes of the components for such a flexible Sensor Web
   system. Experiments with trial installations are already being
   conducted under a variety of conditions. One fascinating and highly
   practical test setting is the famous Huntington Gardens in Pasadena,
   California, where a model Sensor Web is being developed to monitor
   growing conditions. However, the applications for this system goes well
   beyond exotic plants. There exist limitless possibilities for
   positioning variations of the Sensor Web underwater, in space for
   monitoring space stations or practically anywhere scientists wish to
   conduct research.

   [dot-grey.gif]

   Home | Overview | Kids | Popular Press | Resources | Links | Contact
   Info
   [dot-grey.gif]

   Last Updated:
   Web Curator: Kevin Delin
   Web Developer: Kristy Kawasaki
