http://gopher.ngdc.noaa.gov/seg/habitat.shtml

   NOAA logo and earth/sun icon, go to National Geophysical Data Center
   home. NGDC navigation.

   drawing of a living biosphere

   The Earth's environment is the context for life. Understanding and
   predicting the environment is central to NOAA's mission. Understanding
   this coupling between physical and living systems is important for
   making predictions about the effects and causes of climate variability
   and processes related to food production, stewardship of living
   resources, ecosystem sustainability, human health, and safety. The
   knowledge gained will enable us to better understand the risks and
   vulnerabilities of human activity in a complex world.

   Today, we recognize that complex systems require innovative approaches
   to understanding their components and processes, and the system as a
   whole. Central to success are accurate observation networks, adaptive
   data services, and appropriate models or characterizations. NGDC is
   working with other NOAA components to develop and implement the
   methodology which will help find the answers to today's pressing
   questions.


     NGDC environment-biosphere activities support strategic science and
 management needs ... providing data, information, and services for analysis
                               and synthesis.

                                  [bec.jpg]

               Ecosystems and Global Change (Integrated data)
       [hab.jpg] Coastal Stewardship (Habitat, Hazards, Communities, &
                               Biotechnology)
     [veg.gif] Global Vegetation / Land Cover Climatological information
    derived from NOAA's Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR)
                                   sensor.
   image of food grains Environmental Assessment of Agricultural Genetics
             A seminar on Ecological Stratification and Mapping
   NOAA / NASA Pathfinder Data A collection of seven Pathfinder data sets
     from 1987-1988 including: AVHRR Land and Ocean, TOVS A, C1, and C2,
             SSM/I Precipitation and SSM/I Atmospheric Moisture.

   For information please contact:
   Environmental Remote Sensing: David Hastings
   Global Ecosystems: John Kineman
   Ecosystems and Resource Management: Brad Parks

      URL: http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/seg/habitat.shtml
      Last Modified on:Friday, 31-Aug-2001 10:06:52 MDT
