http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/buildings/gbintro.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Green Buildings
   Introduction
   Building Principles
   Building Programs
   Rating Systems
   US Building Efforts
   Affordable Housing
   Success Stories
   Codes / Ordinances
   Articles / Publications
   Educational Materials
   Other Resources
   Green Buildings Introduction


   Also visit U.S. DOE's Buildings for the 21st Century program.
                                                                 [b21c.gif]

   The design, construction, and maintenance of buildings has a tremendous
   impact on our environment and our natural resources.  There are more
   than 76 million residential buildings and nearly 5 million commercial
   buildings in the U.S. today.  These buildings together use one-third of
   all the energy consumed in the U.S., and two-thirds of all
   electricity.  By the year 2010, another 38 million buildings are
   expected to be constructed.  The challenge will be to build them smart,
   so they use a minimum of nonrenewable energy, produce a minimum of
   pollution, and cost a minimum of energy dollars, while increasing the
   comfort, health, and safety of the people who live and work in them.

   Further, buildings are a major source of the pollution that causes
   urban air quality problems, and the pollutants that cause climate
   change.  They account for 49 percent of sulfur dioxide emissions, 25
   percent of nitrous oxide emissions, and 10 percent of particulate
   emissions, all of which damage urban air quality.  Buildings produce 35
   percent of our carbon dioxide emissions, the chief pollutant blamed for
   climate change.

   Traditional building practices often overlook the interrelationships
   between a building, its components, its surroundings, and its
   occupants. "Typical" buildings consume more of our resources than
   necessary, negatively impact the environment, and generate a large
   amount of waste. According to Laurence Doxsey, former Coordinator of
   the City of Austin Green Builder Program, "a standard wood-framed home
   consumes over one acre of forest and the waste created during
   construction averages from 3 to 7 tons."  Often, these buildings are
   costly to operate in terms of energy and water consumption.  And they
   can result in poor indoor air quality, which can lead to health
   problems.

   There are many opportunities to make buildings cleaner.  For example,
   if only 10 percent of homes in the U.S. used solar water-heating
   systems, we would avoid 8.4 million metric tons of carbon emissions
   each year.

   Green building practices offer an opportunity to create
   environmentally-sound and resource-efficient buildings by using an
   integrated approach to design. Green buildings promote resource
   conservation, including energy efficiency, renewable energy, and water
   conservation features; consider environmental impacts and waste
   minimization; create a healthy and comfortable environment; reduce
   operation and maintenance costs; and address issues such as historical
   preservation, access to public transportation and other community
   infrastructure systems. The entire life-cycle of the building and its
   components is considered, as well as the economic and environmental
   impact and performance.
   Back to Top



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
