http://vraptor.jpl.nasa.gov/voyager/vgrfaqs.html

                    GEE-WHIZ Stuff About The Voyager Project

   [tiedye.gif]

   The Voyager mission was officially approved in May 1972, has received
   the dedicated efforts of many skilled personnel for over two decades,
   and has returned more new knowledge about the outer planets than had
   existed in all of the preceding history of astronomy and planetary
   science. And the two Voyager machines are still performing like champs.

   It must come as no surprise that there are many remarkable, "gee-whiz"
   facts associated with the various aspects of the Voyager mission. These
   tidbits have been summarized below in appropriate categories. Several
   may seem difficult to believe, but they are all true and accurate.

OVERALL MISSION

     * The total cost of the Voyager mission from May 1972 through the
       Neptune encounter (including launch vehicles, nuclear-power-source
       RTGs, and DSN tracking support) is 865 million dollars. At first,
       this may sound very expensive, but the fantastic returns are a
       bargain when we place the costs in the proper perspective. It is
       important to realize that:
         1. on a per-capita basis, this is only 20 cents per U.S. resident
            per year, or roughly half the cost of one candy bar each year
            since project inception.
         2. the daily interest on the U.S. national debt is a major
            fraction of the entire cost of Voyager.
     * A total of 11,000 workyears will have been devoted to the Voyager
       project through the Neptune encounter. This is equivalent to
       one-third the amount of effort estimated to complete the great
       pyramid at Giza to King Cheops.
     * A total of five trillion bits of scientific data will have been
       returned to Earth by both Voyager spacecraft at the completion of
       the Neptune encounter. This represents enough bits to encode over
       6000 complete sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica, and is
       equivalent to about 1000 bits of information provided to each
       person on Earth.
     * The sensitivity of our deep-space tracking antennas located around
       the world is truly amazing. The antennas must capture Voyager
       information from a signal so weak that the power striking the
       antenna is only 10 exponent -16 watts (1 part in 10 quadrillion). A
       modern-day electronic digital watch operates at a power level 20
       billion times greater than this feeble level.

VOYAGER SPACECRAFT

     * Each Voyager spacecraft comprises 65,000 individual parts. Many of
       these parts have a large number of "equivalent" smaller parts such
       as transistors. One computer memory alone contains over one million
       equivalent electronic parts, with each spacecraft containing some
       five million equivalent parts. Since a color TV set contains about
       2500 equivalent parts, each Voyager has the equivalent electronic
       circuit complexity of some 2000 color TV sets.
     * Like the HAL computer aboard the ship Discovery from the famous
       science fiction story 2001: A Space Odyssey, each Voyager is
       equipped with computer programming for autonomous fault protection.
       The Voyager system is one of the most sophisticated ever designed
       for a deep-space probe. There are seven top-level fault protection
       routines, each capable of covering a multitude of possible
       failures. The spacecraft can place itself in a safe state in a
       matter of only seconds or minutes, an ability that is critical for
       its survival when round-trip communication times for Earth stretch
       to several hours as the spacecraft journeys to the remote outer
       solar system.
     * Both Voyagers were specifically designed and protected to withstand
       the large radiation dosage during the Jupiter swing-by. This was
       accomplished by selecting radiation-hardened parts and by shielding
       very sensitive parts. An unprotected human passenger riding aboard
       Voyager 1 during its Jupiter encounter would have received a
       radiation dose equal to one thousand times the lethal level.
     * The Voyager spacecraft can point its scientific instruments on the
       scan platform to an accuracy of better than one-tenth of a degree.
       This is comparable to bowling strike-after-strike ad infinitum,
       assuming that you must hit within one inch of the strike pocket
       every time. Such precision is necessary to properly center the
       narrow-angle picture whose square field-of-view would be equivalent
       to the width of a bowling pin.
     * To avoid smearing in Voyager's television pictures, spacecraft
       angular rates must be extremely small to hold the cameras as steady
       as possible during the exposure time. Each spacecraft is so steady
       that angular rates are typically 15 times slower than the motion of
       a clock's hour hand. But even this will not be quite steady enough
       at Neptune, where light levels are 900 times fainter than those on
       Earth. Spacecraft engineers have already devised ways to make
       Voyager 30 times steadier than the hour hand on a clock.
     * The electronics and heaters aboard each nearly one-ton Voyager
       spacecraft can operate on only 400 watts of power, or roughly
       one-fourth that used by an average residential home in the western
       United States.
     * A set of small thrusters provides Voyager with the capability for
       attitude control and trajectory correction. Each of these tiny
       assemblies has a thrust of only three ounces. In the absence of
       friction, on a level road, it would take nearly six hours to
       accelerate a large car up to a speed of 48 km/h (30 mph) using one
       of the thrusters.
     * The Voyager scan platform can be moved about two axes of rotation.
       A thumb-sized motor in the gear train drive assembly (which turns
       9000 revolutions for each single revolution of the scan platform)
       will have rotated five million revolutions from launch through the
       Neptune encounter. This is equivalent to the number of automobile
       crankshaft revolutions during a trip of 2725 km (1700 mi).
     * The Voyager gyroscopes can detect spacecraft angular motion as
       little as one ten-thousandth of a degree. The Sun's apparent motion
       in our sky moves over 40 times that amount in just one second.
     * The tape recorder aboard each Voyager has been designed to record
       and playback a great deal of scientific data. The tape head should
       not begin to wear out until the tape has been moved back and forth
       through a distance comparable to that across the United States.
       Imagine playing a two-hour video cassette on your home VCR once a
       day for the next 22 years, without a failure.
     * The Voyager magnetometers are mounted on a frail, spindly,
       fiberglass boom that was unfurled from a two-foot-long can shortly
       after the spacecraft left Earth. After the boom telescoped and
       rotated out of the can to an extension of nearly 13 meters (43
       feet), the orientations of the magnetometer sensors were controlled
       to an accuracy better than two degrees.

NAVIGATION

     * Each Voyager used the enormous gravity field of Jupiter to be
       hurled on to Saturn, experiencing a Sun-relative speed increase of
       roughly 35,700 mph. As total energy within the solar system must be
       conserved, Jupiter was initially slowed in its solar orbit---but by
       only one foot per trillion years. Additional gravity-assist
       swing-bys of Saturn and Uranus were necessary for Voyager 2 to
       complete its Grand Tour flight to Neptune, reducing the trip time
       by nearly twenty years when compared to the unassisted
       Earth-to-Neptune route.
     * The Voyager delivery accuracy at Neptune of 100 km (62 mi), divided
       by the trip distance or arc length traveled of 7,128,603,456 km
       (4,429,508,700 mi), is equivalent to the feat of sinking a 3630 km
       (2260 mi) golf putt, assuming that the golfer can make a few
       illegal fine adjustments while the ball is rolling across this
       incredibly long green.
     * Voyager's fuel efficiency (in terms of mpg) is quite impressive.
       Even though most of the launch vehicle's 700 ton weight is due to
       rocket fuel, Voyager 2's great travel distance of 7.1 billion km
       (4.4 billion mi) from launch to Neptune results in a fuel economy
       of about 13,000 km per liter (30,000 mi per gallon). As Voyager 2
       streaks by Neptune and coasts out of the solar system, this economy
       will get better and better!

SCIENCE

     * The resolution of the Voyager narrow-angle television cameras is
       sharp enough to read a newspaper headline at a distance of 1 km
       (0.62 mi).
     * Pele, the largest of the volcanoes seen on Jupiter's moon Io, is
       throwing sulfur and sulfur-dioxide products to heights 30 times
       that of Mount Everest, and the fallout zone covers an area the size
       of France. The eruption of Mount St. Helens was but a tiny hiccup
       in comparison (admittedly, Io's surface-level gravity is some six
       times weaker than that of Earth).
     * The smooth water-ice surface of Jupiter's moon Europa may hide an
       ocean beneath, but some scientists believe any past oceans have
       turned to slush or ice. In 2010: Odyssey Two, Arthur C. Clarke
       wraps his story around the possibility of life developing within
       the oceans of Europa.
     * The rings of Saturn appeared to the Voyagers as a dazzling necklace
       of 10,000 strands. Trillions of ice particles and car-sized bergs
       race along each of the million-kilometer-long tracks, with the
       traffic flow orchestrated by the combined gravitational tugs of
       Saturn, a retinue of moons and moonlets, and even nearby ring
       particles. The rings of Saturn are so thin in proportion to their
       171,000 km (106,000 mi) width that, if a full-scale model were to
       be built with the thickness of a phonograph record the model would
       have to measure four miles from its inner edge to its outer rim. An
       intricate tapestry of ring-particle patterns is created by many
       complex dynamic interactions that have spawned new theories of wave
       and particle motion.
     * Saturn's largest moon Titan was seen as a strange world with its
       dense atmosphere and variety of hydrocarbons that slowly fall upon
       seas of ethane and methane. To some scientists, Titan, with its
       principally nitrogen atmosphere, seemed like a small Earth whose
       evolution had long ago been halted by the arrival of its ice age,
       perhaps deep-freezing a few organic relics beneath its present
       surface.
     * The rings of Uranus are so dark that Voyager's challenge of taking
       their picture was comparable to the task of photographing a pile of
       charcoal briquettes at the foot of a Christmas tree, illuminated
       only by a 1 watt bulb at the top of the tree, using ASA-64 film.
       And Neptune light levels will be less than half those at Uranus.

THE FUTURE

     * The solar system does not end at the orbit of Pluto, the ninth
       planet. Nor does it end at the heliopause boundary, where the solar
       wind can no longer continue to expand outward against the
       interstellar wind. It extends over a thousand times farther out
       where a swarm of small cometary nuclei, termed Oort's Cloud, is
       barely held in orbit by the Sun's gravity, feeble at such a great
       distance. Voyager 1 passed above the orbit of Pluto in May 1988,
       and Voyager 2 will pass beneath Pluto's orbit in august 1990. But
       even at speeds of over 35,000 mph, it will take nearly 20,000 years
       for the Voyagers to reach the middle of the comet swarm, and
       possibly twice this long for them to pass the outer boundaries of
       cometary space. By this time, they will have traveled a distance of
       two light-years, equivalent to half of the distance to Proxima
       Centauri, the nearest star.
     * Barring any serious spacecraft subsystem failures, the Voyagers may
       survive until the early twenty-first century, when diminishing
       power and hydrazine levels will prevent further operation. Were it
       not for these dwindling consumables and the possibility of losing
       lock on the faint Sun, our tracking antennas could continue to
       "talk" with the Voyagers for another century or two!

   [back.gif] Return to Voyager Project Home Page
   [tiedye.gif]

   Last Updated: 6/21/95
   Comments ? Questions ? Problems ? Your Feedback is Welcome!
