http://ora.ca.gov/newsdocs/ORA_verizon_motion_mem_acct.doc

   Before the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California Order
   Instituting Rulemaking on the Commission's Own Motion to Assess and
   Revise the New Regulatory Framework for Pacific Bell and Verizon
   California Incorporated. Rulemaking 01-09-001 Order Instituting
   Investigation on the Commission's Own Motion to Assess and Revise the
   New Regulatory Framework for Pacific Bell and Verizon California
   Incorporated. Investigation 01-09-002 MOTION OF THE OFFICE OF RATEPAYER
   ADVOCATES TO ESTABLISH A MEMORANDUM ACCOUNT FOR VERIZON CALIFORNIA
   INCORPORATED Introduction Pursuant to Rule 45 of the California Public
   Utilities Commission Rules of Practice and Procedure, the Office of
   Ratepayer Advocates (ORA) hereby files this motion to establish a
   memorandum account to track Verizon's earnings and to have all such
   earnings held in said account subject to refund until just and
   reasonable rates are determined for Verizon. Discussion As set forth in
   Public Utilities Code 451, the California Public Utilities Commission
   is charged to ensure that: All charges demanded or received by any
   public utility, or by any two or more public utilities, for any product
   or commodity furnished or to be furnished or any service rendered or to
   be rendered shall be just and reasonable. As part of the California
   Public Utilities Commission's third review of regulation for Pacific
   Bell and Verizon, ORA has undertaken an audit of Verizon covering the
   period from mid-1999 to spring 2000. Consistent with this audit, ORA
   has reviewed the overall after-tax earnings in Verizon's California
   operations from 1996 to 2001 (estimated). ORA's audit determined that,
   over the relevant time period, Verizon's after-tax returns on assets
   (ROA) and on equity (ROE) have increased to astounding levels, while
   the regulated assets declined by about $700 million. Moreover, ORA
   found that Verizon's ROA exceeded the 10.5% authorized by the
   Commission in every year from 1996 to 2001 (estimated) while its ROE
   increased almost three times to more than an estimated 31% since 1996.
   These findings are discussed in detail in attachment #1 to this motion,
   which is hereby incorporated by reference. The ROA and ROE currently
   being earned by Verizon are excessive, contrary to P.U. Code 451, and
   subject to revision in Phase 3 of this proceeding. However, it is
   necessary for the Commission to act promptly and grant this motion in
   order to preserve the Commission's full range of options to reduce
   Verizon's rates and ensure that any excesses are refunded to
   ratepayers. CONCLUSION For the reasons set forth above, ORA urges the
   Commission to establish a memorandum account to track Verizon's
   earnings and that all sums deposited in said account be held subject to
   refund, until just and reasonable rates are established for Verizon.
   Respectfully submitted, Darwin E. Farrar Staff Counsel Attorney for the
   Office of Ratepayer Advocates California Public Utilities Commission
   505 Van Ness Ave. San Francisco, CA 94102 January 22, 2002 Phone: (415)
   703-1599 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE I hereby certify that I have this day
   served a certified copy of the foregoing document ``MOTION OF THE
   OFFICE OF RATEPAYER ADVOCATES TO ESTABLISH A MEMORANDUME ACCOUNT FOR
   VERIZON CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED'' on all known parties to
   R.01-09-001/I.01-09-002 by mailing prepaid postage, first-class, a copy
   thereof properly addressed to each party. Executed in San Francisco,
   California, on the 22nd day of January 22, 2002. Sue Ann Muniz P.U.
   Code 451 further provides that, ``Every unjust or unreasonable charge
   demanded or received for such product or commodity or service is
   unlawful.''
