http://www.nih.gov/about/director/index.htm

   Skip Over Navigation Links

   NIH National Institutes of Health, DHHS
   Health Information Grants & Funding Opportunities News Scientific
   Resources Institutes, Centers & Offices About NIH Building 1
     Back to NIH Home Page


   Back to: About NIH
   Welcome to the NIH

   On This Page
   Director's News
   Key Meetings,
   Reports, Events
   Selected Speeches
   Director's Biography
   Senior Staff
   Major Components
   of the Office of the Director

   Quick Links
   Dr. Varmus' Archive
   Former Director, NIH

   from Acting Director Dr. Ruth Kirschstein

   [drkocplsmall.gif]

   On January 1, 2000, Dr. Ruth Kirschstein was appointed the Acting
   Director of the National Institutes of Health. The previous Director,
   Dr. Harold E. Varmus, is now the President and Chief Executive Officer
   of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

   Director's News

   December 6, 2001--Andrew Von Eschenbach Named Director of the National
   Cancer Institute
   November 7, 2001--The NIH Human Embryonic Stem Cell Registry is now
   available online at http://escr.nih.gov/
   September 5, 2001--NIH and WiCell Research Institute sign Stem Cell
   Research Agreement.
   August 9, 2001--Dr. Kirschstein released a News Advisory on the "NIH
   Statement on the President's Stem Cell Address."
   July 18, 2001--NIH released a scientific report on stem cells titled:
   "Stem Cells: Scientific Progress and Future Research Directions.
   May 23, 2001--Dr. Kirschstein delivered the opening statements for
   NIH's fiscal year 2002 budget request before the House (May 16, 2001)
   and Senate (May 23, 2001) Appropriations Subcommittees on Labor, Health
   and Human Services, and Education. You can also review the individual
   opening statements for many of NIH's Institutes and Centers.
   April 9, 2001--FY 2002 President's Budget
   February 26, 2001--Fiscal Year 2001 NIH Budget (Download Adobe Reader)
   January 9, 2001--Narrative: NIH Budget for Fiscal Year 2001
   July 21, 2000--NIH launched a new site on addressing health
   disparities. This resource offers background information on the
   development of the health disparities program, and defines terms, goals
   and initiatives related to its implementation. It also lists future
   events and other related resource links.
   January 1, 2000--Dr. Ruth Kirschstein was appointed the Acting Director
   of the National Institutes of Health. The previous Director, Dr. Harold
   E. Varmus, is now the President and Chief Executive Officer of the
   Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

   Key Meetings, Reports, and Events
   NIH Director's Council of Public Representatives (COPR) - a public
   forum for discussing key NIH issues
   Advisory Committee to the Director - a Federal committee formed to
   advise the NIH on policy matters pertinent to its mission
   responsibilities in the conduct and support of medical research
   Director's Seminars - Wednesday Afternoon Lectures and Friday
   Director's Seminar Series
   Special Events that impact all of NIH
   Special Reports on issues that impact all of NIH

   Selected Speeches
   Monday, May 7, 2001--Remarks for FASEB Spring Policy Conference:
   "Government-Academic-Industrial Partnerships: Bioethics and Genome
   Research"
   Friday, April 6, 2001--John E. Chapman Lectureship on the Ecology of
   Medicine and Medical Education, "MedicineThe Intersection of Research,
   Training, and Care"
   Sunday, March 25, 2001--Future Challenges for Hispanic Research, Fifth
   Annual Conference National Hispanic Medical Association
   Thursday, March 1, 2001--American Institute for Medical and Biological
   Engineering, Annual Meeting
   Wednesday, October 4, 2000--Remarks for the White House Forum:
   Technologies for Successful Aging, Perspectives on Aging and Societal
   Issues
   Wednesday, September 27, 2000--National Alliance for the Mentally Ill,
   American Psychological Association, Mental Illness Awareness Week,
   Helping Children Become Healthy Adults
   Sunday, May 7, 2000--Association of American Medical Colleges GRAND
   Annual Meeting, NIH and the Academic Research Community; Partnerships
   for Clinical Trials
   Monday, April 17, 2000--NIH Office of Research on Minority Health
   Conference, Challenges in Health Disparity in the New Millenium: A Call
   to Action

   Director's Biography

   Dr. Ruth L. Kirschstein was named Acting Director, NIH, on January 1,
   2000. Prior to this post, Dr. Kirschstein served as the Deputy
   Director, NIH, between November 1993 and December 1999. She also served
   as the Acting Director, NIH between July 1993 and November 1993.

   A native of Brooklyn, NY, Dr. Kirschstein received a B.A. degree magna
   cum laude in 1947 from Long Island University. She went on to earn her
   M.D. in 1951 from Tulane University School of Medicine in New Orleans,
   LA. She interned in medicine and surgery at Kings County Hospital,
   Brooklyn, and did residencies in pathology at Providence Hospital,
   Detroit; Tulane University School of Medicine; and the Warren G.
   Magnuson Clinical Center, NIH... Read the full biography >

   Senior Staff

   Acting Director, Ruth Kirschstein, M.D.
   Acting Deputy Director, Yvonne Maddox, Ph.D.
   Executive Assistant to the Acting Director, Valerie M. Secker
   Senior Advisor to the Director, Anthony Itteilag
   Deputy Director for Intramural Research, Michael M. Gottesman, M.D.
   Acting Director, Office of Technology Transfer, Mark Rohrbaugh, Ph.D.,
   J.D.
   Deputy Director for Extramural Research, Wendy Baldwin, Ph.D.

   Deputy Director for Management and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Charles
   Leasure, Jr.
   Associate Director for Administration, Leamon Lee, Ph.D.
   Associate Director for Research Services, Stephen A. Ficca
   Director, Office of Human Resources, Stephen Benowitz
   Associate Director for Budget, Susan E. Quantius
   Director, Office of Community Liaison, Janyce Hedetniemi
   Acting Associate Director, Office of AIDS Research, Jack Whitescarver,
   Ph.D.
   Associate Director for Research on Women's Health, Vivian Pinn, M.D.
   Associate Director for Behavioral and Social Sciences Research, Raynard
   S. Kington, M.D., Ph.D.
   Associate Director for Disease Prevention, Barnett Kramer, M.D., MPH
   Associate Director for Science Policy, Lana Skirboll, Ph.D.
   Associate Director, Office of Communications and Public Liaison, Anne
   Thomas
   Associate Director for Legislative Policy and Analysis, Marc Smolonsky
   Director, Office of Equal Opportunity, Lawrence Self
   NIH Legal Advisor, Barbara M. McGarey, J.D.

   Major Components of the Office of the Director

   Organizational Chart for the Office of the Director and its Major
   Components
   Overview and Mission Summaries of some of the Major Components of the
   Office of the Director
   Full list of Major Components and links to those that have Web sites
   [arrow_rt.gif] Historical Profiles of Past Directors



   This page was last reviewed on December 14, 2001 .

   [ Q&A About NIH | Employment Opportunities | Visitor Information | FOIA
   ]
   [ Recent Changes to This Site | Information for Employees | Información
   en español | Search ]
   [ Contact Us | Privacy Notice | Disclaimer | Accessibility]

  NIH Logo National Institutes of Health (NIH)
           Bethesda, Maryland 20892               DHHS Logo Department of Health
                                                            and Human Services
