http://www.uscourts.gov/Press_Releases/att81501.pdf

   Agenda F-7 (Appendix A) Court Admin./Case Mgmt. September 2001 REPORT
   ON PRIVACY AND PUBLIC ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC CASE FILES Judicial
   Conference Committee on Court Administration and Case Management
   Reviewed by the Committees on Court Administration and Case Management,
   Criminal Law, Automation and Technology, Rules of Practice and
   Procedure and the Administration of the Bankruptcy System and submitted
   to the Judicial Conference for approval June 26, 2001 Court Admin./Case
   Mgmt. App. A-1 Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-2 Report of the Judicial
   Conference Committee on Court Administration and Case Management on
   Privacy and Public Access to Electronic Case Files The Judicial
   Conference of the United States requested that its Committee on Court
   Administration and Case Management examine issues related to privacy
   and public access to electronic case files. The Committee on Court
   Administration and Case Management formed a special subcommittee for
   this purpose. This subcommittee, known as the Subcommittee on Privacy
   and Public Access to Electronic Case Files, consisted of four members
   of the Committee on Court Administration and Case Management: Judge
   John W. Lungstrum, District of Kansas, Chair; Judge Samuel Grayson
   Wilson, Western District of Virginia; Judge Jerry A. Davis, Magistrate
   Judge, Northern District of Mississippi; and Judge J. Rich Leonard,
   Bankruptcy Judge, Eastern District of North Carolina, and one member
   from each of four other Judicial Conference Committees (liaison
   Committees): Judge Emmet Sullivan, District of Columbia, liaison from
   the Committee on Criminal Law; Judge James Robertson, District of
   Columbia, liaison from the Committee on Automation and Technology;
   Judge Sarah S. Vance, Eastern District of Louisiana, liaison from the
   Committee on the Administration of the Bankruptcy System; and Gene W.
   Lafitte, Esq., Liskow and Lewis, New Orleans, Louisiana, liaison from
   the Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure. After a lengthy
   process described below, the Subcommittee on Privacy and Public Access
   to Electronic Case Files, drafted a report containing recommendations
   for a judiciary-wide privacy and access policy. The four liaison
   Committees reviewed the report and provided comments on it to the full
   Committee on Court Administration and Case Management. After carefully
   considering these comments, as well as comments of its own members, the
   Committee on Court Administration and Case Management made several
   changes to the subcommittee report, and adopted the amended report as
   its own. Brief History of the Committee's Study of Privacy Issues The
   Committee on Court Administration and Case Management, through its
   Subcommittee on Privacy and Public Access to Electronic Case Files (the
   Subcommittee) began its study of privacy and security concerns
   regarding public electronic access to case file information in June
   1999. It has held numerous meetings and conference calls and received
   information from experts and academics in the privacy arena, as well as
   from court users, including judges, court clerks, and government
   agencies. As a result, in May 2000, the Subcommittee developed several
   policy options and alternatives for the creation of a judiciary-wide
   electronic access privacy policy which were presented to the full
   Committee on Court Administration and Case Management and the liaison
   committees at their Summer 2000 meetings. The Subcommittee used the
   opinions and feedback from these committees to further refine the
   policy options. Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A- 3 In November 2000, the
   Subcommittee produced a document entitled "Request for Comment on
   Privacy and Public Access to Electronic Case Files," a copy of which is
   attached. This document contains the alternatives the Subcommittee
   perceived as viable following the committees' feedback. The
   Subcommittee published this document for public comment from November
   13, 2000 through January 26, 2001. A website at
   www.privacy.uscourts.gov was established to publicize the comment
   document and to collect the comments. Two hundred forty-two comments
   were received from a very wide range of interested persons including
   private citizens, privacy rights groups, journalists, private
   investigators, attorneys, data re-sellers and representatives of the
   financial services industry. Those comments, in summary and full text
   format, are available at that website. On March 16, 2001, the
   Subcommittee held a public hearing to gain further insight into the
   issues surrounding privacy and access. Fifteen individuals who had
   submitted written comments made oral presentations to and answered the
   questions of Subcommittee members. Following the hearing, the
   Subcommittee met, considered the comments received, and reached
   agreement on the policy recommendations contained in this document.
   Background Federal court case files, unless sealed or otherwise subject
   to restricted access by statute, federal rule, or Judicial Conference
   policy, are presumed to be available for public inspection and copying.
   See Nixon v. Warner Communications, Inc., 435 U.S. 589 (1978) (holding
   that there is a common law right "to inspect and copy public records
   and documents, including judicial records and documents"). The
   tradition of public access to federal court case files is also rooted
   in constitutional principles. See Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v.
   Virginia, 448 U.S. 555, 575-78 (1980). However, public access rights
   are not absolute, and courts balance access and privacy interests in
   making decisions about the public disclosure and dissemination of case
   files. The authority to protect personal privacy and other legitimate
   interests in nondisclosure is based, like public access rights, in
   common law and constitutional principles. See Nixon, 435 U.S. at 596
   ("[E]very court has supervisory power over its own records and files,
   and access has been denied where court files might have become a
   vehicle for improper purposes"). The term "case file" (whether
   electronic or paper) means the collection of documents officially filed
   by the litigants or the court in the context of litigation, the docket
   entries that catalog such filings, and transcripts of judicial
   proceedings. The case file generally does not include several other
   types of information, including non-filed discovery material, trial
   exhibits that have not been admitted into evidence, drafts or notes by
   judges or court staff, and various documents that are sometimes known
   as "left-side" file material. Sealed material, although part of the
   case file, is accessible only by court order. Certain types of cases,
   categories of information, and specific documents may require special
   protection from unlimited public access, as further specified in the
   sections on civil, criminal, bankruptcy and appellate case files below.
   See United States Department of Justice v. Reporters Committee for
   Freedom of the Press, 489 U.S. 749 (1989) (noting that technology may
   affect the balance between access rights and privacy and security
   interests). To a great extent, these recommendations Court Admin./Case
   Mgmt. App. A-4 rely upon counsel and litigants to act to protect the
   interests of their clients and themselves. This may necessitate an
   effort by the courts to educate the bar and the public about the fact
   that documents filed in federal court cases may be available on the
   Internet. It is also important to note that the federal courts are not
   required to provide electronic access to case files (assuming that a
   paper file is maintained), and these recommendations do not create any
   entitlement to such access. As a practical matter, during this time of
   transition when courts are implementing new practices, there may be
   disparity in access among courts because of varying technology.
   Nonetheless, the federal courts recognize that the public should share
   in the benefits of information technology, including more efficient
   access to court case files. These recommendations propose privacy
   policy options which the Committee on Court Administration and Case
   Management (the Committee) believes can provide solutions to issues of
   privacy and access as those issues are now presented. To the extent
   that courts are currently experimenting with procedures which differ
   from those articulated in this document, those courts should reexamine
   those procedures in light of the policies outlined herein. The
   Committee recognizes that technology is ever changing and these
   recommendations may require frequent re-examination and revision.
   Recommendations The policy recommended for adoption by the Judicial
   Conference is as follows: General Principles 1. There should be
   consistent, nationwide policies in federal courts in order to ensure
   that similar privacy protections and access presumptions apply
   regardless of which federal court is the custodian of a particular case
   file. 2. Notice of these nationwide policies should be given to all
   litigants in federal court so that they will be aware of the fact that
   materials which they submit in a federal court proceeding could become
   available on the Internet. 3. Members of the bar must be educated about
   the policies and the fact that they must protect their clients by
   carefully examining the documents that they file in federal court for
   sensitive, private information and by making the appropriate motions to
   protect documents from electronic access when necessary. 4. Except
   where otherwise noted, the policies apply to both paper and electronic
   files. 5. Electronic access to docket sheets through PACERNet and court
   opinions through court websites will not be affected by these policies.
   Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-5 6. The availability of case files at
   the courthouse will not be affected or limited by these policies. 7.
   Nothing in these recommendations is intended to create a private right
   of action or to limit the application of Rule 11 of the Federal Rules
   of Civil Procedure. Case Types Civil Case Files Recommendation: That
   documents in civil case files should be made available electronically
   to the same extent that they are available at the courthouse with one
   exception (Social Security cases should be excluded from electronic
   access) and one change in policy (the requirement that certain
   "personal data identifiers" be modified or partially redacted by the
   litigants). These identifiers are Social Security numbers, dates of
   birth, financial account numbers and names of minor children. The
   recommendation provides for liberal remote electronic access to civil
   case files while also adopting some means to protect individual
   privacy. Remote electronic access will be available only through the
   PACERNet system which requires registration with the PACER service
   center and the use of a log in and password. This creates an electronic
   trail which can be retraced in order to determine who accessed certain
   information if a problem arises. Further, this recommendation
   contemplates that certain personal, identifying information will not be
   included in its full and complete form in case documents, whether
   electronic or hard copy. For example, if the Social Security number of
   an individual must be included in a document, only the last four digits
   of that number will be used whether that document is to be filed
   electronically or at the courthouse. If the involvement of a minor
   child must be mentioned, only that child's initials should be used; if
   an individual's date of birth is necessary, only the year should be
   used; and, if financial account numbers are relevant, only the last
   four digits should be recited in the document. It is anticipated that
   as courts develop local rules and instructions for the use and
   implementation of Electronic Case Filing (ECF), such rules and
   instructions will include direction on the truncation by the litigants
   of personal identifying information. Similar rule changes would apply
   to courts which are imaging documents. Providing remote electronic
   access equal to courthouse access will require counsel and pro se
   litigants to protect their interests through a careful review of
   whether it is essential to their case to file certain documents
   containing private sensitive information or by the use of motions to
   seal and for protective orders. It will also depend upon the discretion
   of judges to protect privacy and security interests as they arise in
   individual cases. However, it is the experience of the ECF prototype
   courts and courts which have been imaging documents and making them
   electronically available that reliance on judicial discretion has not
   been problematic and has not dramatically increased or altered the
   amount and nature of motions to seal. It is also the experience of
   those courts that have been making Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-6
   their case file information available through PACERNet that there have
   been virtually no reported privacy problems as a result. This
   recommended "public is public" policy is simple and can be easily and
   consistently applied nationwide. The recommended policy will "level the
   geographic playing field" in civil cases in federal court by allowing
   attorneys not located in geographic proximity to the courthouse easy
   access. Having both remote electronic access and courthouse access to
   the same information will also utilize more fully the technology
   available to the courts and will allow clerks' offices to better and
   more easily serve the needs of the bar and the public. In addition, it
   might also discourage the possible development of a "cottage industry"
   headed by data re-sellers who, if remote electronic access were
   restricted, could go to the courthouse, copy the files, download the
   information to a private website, and charge for access to that
   website, thus profiting from the sale of public information and
   undermining restrictions intended to protect privacy. Each of the other
   policy options articulated in the document for comment presented its
   own problems. The idea of defining what documents should be included in
   the public file was rejected because it would require the courts to
   restrict access at the courthouse to information that has traditionally
   been available from courthouse files. This would have the net effect of
   allowing less overall access in a technological age where greater
   access is easy to achieve. It would also require making the very
   difficult determination of what information should be included in the
   public file. The Committee seriously considered and debated at length
   the idea of creating levels of access to electronic documents (i.e.,
   access to certain documents for specific users would be based upon the
   user's status in the case). The Committee ultimately decided that
   levels of access restrictions were too complicated in relation to the
   privacy benefits which could be derived therefrom. It would be
   difficult, for example, to prohibit a user with full access to all case
   information, such as a party to the case, from downloading and
   disseminating the restricted information. Also, the levels of access
   would only exist in relation to the remote electronic file and not in
   relation to the courthouse file. This would result in unequal remote
   and physical access to the same information and could foster a cottage
   industry of courthouse data collection as described above. Seeking an
   amendment to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure was not recommended
   for several reasons. First, any such rules amendment would take several
   years to effectuate, and the Committee concluded that privacy issues
   need immediate attention. There was some discussion about the need for
   a provision in Fed. R. Civ. P. 11 providing for sanctions against
   counsel or litigants who, as a litigation tactic, intentionally include
   scurrilous or embarrassing, irrelevant information in a document so
   that this information will be available on the Internet. The Committee
   ultimately determined that, at least for now, the current language of
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 11 and the inherent power of the court are sufficient
   to deter such actions and to enforce any privacy policy. As noted
   above, this recommendation treats Social Security cases differently
   from other civil case files. It would limit remote electronic access.
   It does contemplate, however, the existence of a skeletal electronic
   file in Social Security cases which would contain documents such as the
   complaint, Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-7 answer and dispositive
   cross motions or petitions for review as applicable but not the
   administrative record and would be available to the court for
   statistical and case management purposes. This recommendation would
   also allow litigants to electronically file documents, except for the
   administrative record, in Social Security cases and would permit
   electronic access to these documents by litigants only. After much
   debate, the consensus of the Committee was that Social Security cases
   warrant such treatment because they are of an inherently different
   nature from other civil cases. They are the continuation of an
   administrative proceeding, the files of which are confidential until
   the jurisdiction of the district court is invoked, by an individual to
   enforce his or her rights under a government program. Further, all
   Social Security disability claims, which are the majority of Social
   Security cases filed in district court, contain extremely detailed
   medical records and other personal information which an applicant must
   submit in an effort to establish disability. Such medical and personal
   information is critical to the court and is of little or no legitimate
   use to anyone not a party to the case. Thus, making such information
   available on the Internet would be of little public benefit and would
   present a substantial intrusion into the privacy of the claimant.
   Social Security files would still be available in their entirety at the
   courthouse. Criminal Case Files Recommendation: That public remote
   electronic access to documents in criminal cases should not be
   available at this time, with the understanding that the policy will be
   reexamined within two years of adoption by the Judicial Conference. The
   Committee determined that any benefits of public remote electronic
   access to criminal files were outweighed by the safety and law
   enforcement risks such access would create. Routine public remote
   electronic access to documents in criminal case files would allow
   defendants and others easy access to information regarding the
   cooperation and other activities of defendants. Specifically, an
   individual could access documents filed in conjunction with a motion by
   the government for downward departure for substantial assistance and
   learn details of a defendant's involvement in the government's case.
   Such information could then be very easily used to intimidate, harass
   and possibly harm victims, defendants and their families. Likewise,
   routine public remote electronic access to criminal files may
   inadvertently increase the risk of unauthorized public access to
   preindictment information, such as unexecuted arrest and search
   warrants. The public availability of this information could severely
   hamper and compromise investigative and law enforcement efforts and
   pose a significant safety risk to law enforcement officials engaged in
   their official duties. Sealing documents containing this and other
   types of sensitive information in criminal cases will not adequately
   address the problem, since the mere fact that a document is sealed
   signals probable defendant cooperation and covert law enforcement
   initiatives. The benefit to the public of easier access to criminal
   case file information was not discounted by the Committee and, it
   should be noted that, opinions and orders, as determined by the court,
   and Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-8 criminal docket sheets will still
   be available through court websites and PACER and PACERNet. However, in
   view of the concerns described above, the Committee concluded that
   individual safety and the risk to law enforcement personnel
   significantly outweigh the need for unfettered public remote access to
   the content of criminal case files. This recommendation should be
   reconsidered if it becomes evident that the benefits of public remote
   electronic access significantly outweigh the dangers to victims,
   defendants and their families, and law enforcement personnel.
   Bankruptcy Case Files Recommendation: That documents in bankruptcy case
   files should be made generally available electronically to the same
   extent that they are available at the courthouse, with a similar policy
   change for personal identifiers as in civil cases; that ยง 107(b)(2) of
   the Bankruptcy Code should be amended to establish privacy and security
   concerns as a basis for the sealing of a document; and that the
   Bankruptcy Code and Rules should be amended as necessary to allow the
   court to collect a debtor's full Social Security number but display
   only the last four digits. The Committee recognized the unique nature
   of bankruptcy case files and the particularly sensitive nature of the
   information, largely financial, which is contained in these files;
   while this recommendation does provide open remote electronic access to
   this information, it also accommodates the privacy concerns of
   individuals. This recommendation contemplates that a debtor's personal,
   identifying information and financial account numbers will not be
   included in their complete forms on any document, whether electronic or
   hard copy (i.e., only the last four digits of Social Security and
   financial account numbers will be used). As the recommendation
   recognizes, there may be a need to amend the Bankruptcy Code to allow
   only the last four digits of an individual debtor's Social Security
   number to be used. The bankruptcy court will collect the full Social
   Security number of debtors for internal use, as this number appears to
   provide the best way to identify multiple bankruptcy filings. The
   recommendation proposes a minor amendment to ยง 107(a) to allow the
   court to collect the full number, but only display the last four
   digits. The names of minor children will not be included in electronic
   or hard copies of documents. As with civil cases, the effectiveness of
   this recommendation relies upon motions to seal filed by litigants and
   other parties in interest. To accomplish this result, an amendment of
   11 U.S.C. ยง 107(b), which now narrowly circumscribes the ability of the
   bankruptcy courts to seal documents, will be needed to establish
   privacy and security concerns as a basis for sealing a document. Once
   again, the experiences of the ECF prototype and imaging courts do not
   indicate that this reliance will cause a large influx of motions to
   seal. In addition, as with all remote electronic access, the
   information can only be reached through the log-in and password-
   controlled PACERNet system. The Committee rejected the other
   alternatives suggested in the comment document for various reasons. Any
   attempt to create levels of access in bankruptcy cases would meet with
   the same problems discussed with respect to the use of levels of access
   for civil cases. Bankruptcy cases Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-9
   present even more issues with respect to levels of access because there
   are numerous interests which would have a legitimate need to access
   file information and specific access levels would need to be
   established for them. Further, many entities could qualify as a "party
   in interest" in a bankruptcy filing and would need access to case file
   information to determine if they in fact have an interest. It would be
   difficult to create an electronic access system which would allow
   sufficient access for that determination to be made without giving full
   access to that entity. The idea of collecting less information or
   segregating certain information and restricting access to it was
   rejected because the Committee determined that there is a need for and
   a value in allowing the public access to this information. Further,
   creating two separate files, one totally open to the public and one
   with restricted access, would place a burden on clerks' offices by
   requiring the management of two sets of files in each case. Appellate
   Case Files Recommendation: That appellate case files be treated at the
   appellate level the same way in which they are treated at the lower
   level. This recommendation acknowledges the varying treatment of the
   different case types at the lower level and carries that treatment
   through to the appellate level. For cases appealed to the district
   court or the court of appeals from administrative agencies, the
   documents in the appeal will be treated, for the purposes of remote
   electronic access, in the same manner in which they were treated by the
   agency. For cases appealed from the district court, the case file will
   be treated in the manner in which it was treated by the district court
   with respect to remote electronic access. Attachment Court Admin./Case
   Mgmt. App. A-10 Agenda F-7 (Attachment to Appendix A) Court Admin./Case
   Mgmt. September 2001 Request for Comment on Privacy and Public Access
   to Electronic Case Files The federal judiciary is seeking comment on
   the privacy and security implications of providing electronic public
   access to court case files. The Judicial Conference of the United
   States is studying these issues in order to provide policy guidance to
   the federal courts. This request for public comment addresses several
   related issues: the judiciary's plans to provide electronic access to
   case files through the Internet; the privacy and security implications
   of public access to electronic case files; potential policy
   alternatives and the appropriate scope of judicial branch action in
   this area. The judiciary is interested in comments that address any of
   the issues raised in this document, including whether it is appropriate
   for the judiciary to establish policy in this area. All comments should
   be received by 5:00 p.m. January 26, 2001 and must include the name,
   mailing address and phone number of the commentator. All comments
   should also include an e-mail address and a fax number, where
   available, as well as an indication of whether the commentator is
   interested in participating in a public hearing, if one is held. The
   public should be advised that it may not be possible to honor all
   requests to speak at any such hearing. The electronic submission of
   comments is highly encouraged. Electronic comments may be submitted at
   www.privacy.uscourts.gov or via e-mail to
   Privacy_Policy_Comments@ao.uscourts.gov . Comments may be submitted by
   regular mail to The Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
   Court Administration Policy Staff, Attn: Privacy Comments, Suite 4-560,
   One Columbus Circle, N.E. Washington, DC 20544. Electronic Public
   Access to Federal Court Case Files The federal courts are moving
   swiftly to create electronic case files and to provide public access to
   those files through the Internet. This transition from paper files to
   electronic files is quickly transforming the way case file documents
   may be used by attorneys, litigants, courts, and the public. The
   creation of electronic case files means that the ability to obtain
   documents from a court case file will no longer Court Admin./Case Mgmt.
   App. A-11 depend on physical presence in the courthouse where a file is
   maintained. Increasingly, case files may be viewed, printed, or
   downloaded by anyone, at any time, through the Internet. Electronic
   files are being created in two ways. Many courts are creating
   electronic images of all paper documents that are filed, in effect
   converting paper files to electronic files. Other courts are receiving
   court filings over the Internet directly from attorneys, so that the
   "original" file is no longer a paper file but rather a collection of
   the electronic documents filed by the attorneys and the court. Over the
   next few years electronic filing, as opposed to making images of paper
   documents, will become more common as most federal courts begin to
   implement a new case management system, called Case
   Management/Electronic Case Files (or "CM/ECF"). That system gives each
   court the option to create electronic case files by allowing lawyers
   and parties to file their documents over the Internet. The courts plan
   to provide public access to electronic files, both at the courthouse
   and beyond the courthouse, through the Internet. The primary method to
   obtain access will be through Public Access to Court Electronic Records
   (or "PACER"), which is a web-based system that will contain both the
   dockets (a list of the documents filed in the case) and the actual case
   file documents. Individuals who seek a particular document or case file
   will need to open a PACER account and obtain a login and password.
   After obtaining these, an individual may access case files  whether
   those files were created by imaging paper files or through CM/ECF  over
   the Internet. Public access through PACER will involve a fee of $.07
   per page of a case file document or docket viewed, downloaded or
   printed. This compares favorably to the current $.50 per page photocopy
   charge. Electronic case files also will be available at public computer
   terminals at courthouses free of charge. Potential Privacy and Security
   Implications of Electronic Case Files Electronic case files promise
   significant benefits for the courts, litigants, attorneys, and the
   public. There is increasing awareness, however, of the personal privacy
   implications of unlimited Internet access to court case files. In the
   court community, some have begun to suggest that case files  long
   presumed to be open for public inspection and copying unless sealed by
   court order  contain private or sensitive information that should be
   protected from unlimited public disclosure and dissemination in the new
   electronic environment. Others maintain that electronic case files
   should be treated the same as paper files in terms of public access and
   that existing court practices are adequate to protect privacy
   interests. Federal court case files contain personal and sensitive
   information that litigants and third parties often are compelled by law
   to disclose for adjudicatory purposes. Bankruptcy debtors, for example,
   must divulge intimate details of their financial affairs for review by
   the case trustee, creditors, and the judge. Civil case files may
   contain medical records, personnel files, proprietary information, tax
   returns, and other sensitive information. Criminal files may contain
   arrest warrants, plea agreements, and other information that raise law
   enforcement and security concerns. Recognizing the need to review
   judiciary public access policies in the context of new technology, the
   Judicial Conference is considering privacy and access issues in order
   to provide guidance to the courts. Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-12
   The Judicial Conference has not reached any conclusions on these
   issues, and this request for public comment is intended as part of the
   Conference's ongoing study. The judiciary has a long tradition  rooted
   in both constitutional and common law principles  of open access to
   public court records. Accordingly, all case file documents, unless
   sealed or otherwise subject to restricted access by statute or federal
   rule, have traditionally been available for public inspection and
   copying. The Supreme Court has recognized, however, that access rights
   are not absolute, and that technology may affect the balance between
   access rights and privacy and security interests. See Nixon v. Warner
   Communications, Inc., 435 U.S. 589 (1978), and United States Department
   of Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, 489 U.S.
   749 (1989). These issues are discussed in more detail in an
   Administrative Office staff paper, "Privacy and Access to Electronic
   Case Files in the Federal Courts," available on the Internet at
   www.uscourts.gov/privacyn.pdf . The Role of the Federal Judiciary The
   judiciary recognizes that concern about privacy and access to public
   records is not limited to the judicial branch. There is a broader
   public debate about the privacy and security implications of
   information technology. Congress has already responded to some of these
   concerns by passing laws that are designed to shield sensitive personal
   information from unwarranted disclosure. These laws, and numerous
   pending legislative proposals, address information such as banking
   records and other personal financial information, medical records, tax
   returns, and Social Security numbers. The executive branch is also
   concerned about implications of electronic public access to private
   information. Most recently, the President directed the Office of
   Management and Budget, the Department of Justice, and the Department of
   Treasury to conduct a study on privacy and security issues associated
   with consumer bankruptcy filings. Accordingly, the judiciary is
   interested in receiving comment on the appropriate scope of judicial
   branch action, if any, on the broad issue of access to public court
   records, and the corresponding need to balance access issues against
   competing concerns such as personal privacy and security. Policy
   Alternatives on Electronic Public Access to Federal Court Case Files
   Regardless of what entity addresses the issues of privacy and
   electronic access to case files, the effort must be made to balance
   access and privacy interests in making decisions about the public
   disclosure and dissemination of case files. The policy options outlined
   below are intended to promote consistent policies and practices in the
   federal courts and to ensure that similar protections and electronic
   access presumptions apply, regardless of which federal court is the
   custodian of a particular case file. One or more of the policy options
   for each type of case file may be recommended to the Judicial
   Conference for its consideration. Some, but not all of the options are
   mutually exclusive. Civil Case Files Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-13
   1. Maintain the presumption that all filed documents that are not
   sealed are available both at the courthouse and electronically. This
   approach would rely upon counsel and pro se litigants to protect their
   interests on a case-by-case basis through motions to seal specific
   documents or motions to exclude specific documents from electronic
   availability. It would also rely on judges' discretion to protect
   privacy and security interests on a case-by-case basis through orders
   to seal or to exclude certain information from remote electronic public
   access. 2. Define what documents should be included in the "public
   file" and, thereby, available to the public either at the courthouse or
   electronically. This option would treat paper and electronic access
   equally and assumes that specific sensitive information would be
   excluded from public review or presumptively sealed. It assumes that
   the entire public file would be available electronically without
   restriction and would promote uniformity among district courts as to
   case file content. The challenge of this alternative is to define what
   information should be included in the public file and what information
   does not need to be in the file because it is not necessary to an
   understanding of the determination of the case or because it implicates
   privacy and security interests. 3. Establish "levels of access" to
   certain electronic case file information. This contemplates use of
   software with features to restrict electronic access to certain
   documents either by the identity of the individual seeking access or
   the nature of the document to which access is sought, or both. Judges,
   court staff, parties and counsel would have unlimited remote access to
   all electronic case files. This approach assumes that the complete
   electronic case file would be available for public review at the
   courthouse, just as the entire paper file is available for inspection
   in person. It is important to recognize that this approach would not
   limit how case files may be copied or disseminated once obtained at the
   courthouse. 4. Seek an amendment to one or more of the Federal Rules of
   Civil Procedure to account for privacy and security interests. Court
   Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-14 Criminal Case Files 1. Do not provide
   electronic public access to criminal case files. This approach
   advocates the position that the ECF component of the new CM/ECF system
   should not be expanded to include criminal case files. Due to the very
   different nature of criminal case files, there may be much less of a
   legitimate need to provide electronic access to these files. The files
   are usually not that extensive and do not present the type of storage
   problems presented by civil files. Prosecution and defense attorneys
   are usually located near the courthouse. Those with a true need for the
   information can still access it at the courthouse. Further, any
   legitimate need for electronic access to criminal case information is
   outweighed by safety and security concerns. The electronic availability
   of criminal information would allow co-defendants to have easy access
   to information regarding cooperation and other activities of
   defendants. This information could then be used to intimidate and
   harass the defendant and the defendant's family. Additionally, the
   availability of certain preliminary criminal information, such as
   warrants and indictments, could severely hamper law enforcement and
   prosecution efforts. 2. Provide limited electronic public access to
   criminal case files. This alternative would allow the general public
   access to some, but not all, documents routinely contained in criminal
   files. Access to documents such as plea agreements, unexecuted
   warrants, certain pre-indictment information and presentence reports
   would be restricted to parties, counsel, essential court employees, and
   the judge. Bankruptcy Case Files 1. Seek an amendment to section 107 of
   the Bankruptcy Code. Section 107 currently requires public access to
   all material filed with bankruptcy courts and gives judges limited
   sealing authority. Recognized issues in this area would be addressed by
   amending this provision as follows: 1) specifying that only "parties in
   interest" may obtain access to certain types of information; and (2)
   enhancing the 107(b) sealing provisions to clarify that judges may
   provide protection from disclosures based upon privacy and security
   concerns. 2. Require less information on petitions or schedules and
   statements filed in bankruptcy cases. 3. Restrict use of Social
   Security, credit card, and other account numbers to only the last four
   digits to protect privacy and security interests. Court Admin./Case
   Mgmt. App. A-15 4. Segregate certain sensitive information from the
   public file by collecting it on separate forms that will be protected
   from unlimited public access and made available only to the courts, the
   U.S. Trustee, and to parties in interest. Appellate Cases 1. Apply the
   same access rules to appellate courts that apply at the trial court
   level. 2. Treat any document that is sealed or subject to public access
   restrictions at the trial court level with the same protections at the
   appellate level unless and until a party challenges the restriction in
   the appellate court. Court Admin./Case Mgmt. App. A-16
