http://www.apfo.usda.gov/spotlight.html

   [ISMAP:usda.gif]-USDA Logo and Link to the USDA Hom e Page
   Link to Aerial Photography Home page

   [ISMAP:spotlightblu.gif]-Spotlight header and optional link to return
   to APFO home page




    A "MORPHED" DIGITAL IMAGE MOSAIC  April 6, 2001

   These are mosaicked images of an area near Arlington, Texas. The
   majority year of photography that comprises each mosaic is indicated in
   the northeast corner above the image.

   1995 color-infra-red 1996 aerial photograph of an area near Arlington,
   Texas 1970 black-and-white 1970 aerial photograph of an area near
   Arlington, Texas 1956 black-and-white 1956 aerial photograph of an area
   near Arlington, Texas

   Please check the
   catalog to view the availability of historical imagery for your area of
   interest or visit the Ordering Imagery page for a 'how to' guide and
   additional information.

   Morphed Digital Mosaic - Arlington, Texas (PDF 375K)


   If your area of interest is simply too large to be covered by a single
   photo (as in this sample area provided to a customer from Texas),
   several adjoining photos can be combined to form a "mosaic" image. A
   mosaic of this type is defined in the dictionary as "a composite map
   made of aerial photographs".

   If the imagery has been digitally processed and manipulated by computer
   software, it can be made to look like a single photograph with no
   apparent seam lines where several photos were "stitched" together. The
   mosaicked image can also be "rectified" using one of several methods to
   remove varying amounts of distortion and displacement caused by
   variables such as the tip and tilt of the aircraft, changes in
   elevation on the ground, and imperfections in camera lenses.

   Prior to the development of computer assisted image processing, mosaics
   were made by carefully cutting or tearing paper photographs along their
   edges in an irregular fashion, and gluing them down in such a way that
   the cut or tear lines were overlapped on adjacent photos and blended-in
   to hide the lines as much as possible. This mosaic was then
   re-photographed to produce a single new photographic print. It could be
   referenced to accurate ground coordinates and labeled a "controlled
   mosaic", or simply pieced together to form an "uncontrolled" mosaic.

   The sample "digital image" mosaic shown here is of an area near
   Arlington, Texas, and was produced by first converting photographic
   prints to digital images by running them through a photogrammetric
   precision aerial film scanner. The film was scanned at the resolution
   required to obtain a pixel size of about one meter ground sample
   distance (GSD). For this film (from the National Aerial Photography
   Program [NAPP] at a negative scale of 1:40000), this is the equivalent
   of 1000 pixels per inch.

   These scanned photographs were then run through image processing
   software to tone balance the images and remove "hot spots" common to
   aerial photographs. Next, by relating known positions on the ground
   (selected from USGS ortho-photo maps) to their corresponding points on
   the imagery, the pixels were "morphed" or stretched to fit their
   adjusted true locations. This corrects the imagery for error introduced
   by tip and tilt of the aircraft. These images were then tone matched to
   each other and pieced together (mosaicked) in the computer to look like
   it could have come from a single frame of aerial film.

   Other, more rigorous rectification methods (that remove all distortion
   and displacement) are employed at the APFO to ortho-rectify digital
   imagery for Farm Service Agency (FSA) use. These images can then be
   used in a computerized Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to measure
   accurate ground distances and areas, and serve as a photographic base
   layer for many types of information overlays.

   PREVIOUS SPOTLIGHT
   Osage Visit - GIS in Osage County, Kansas (PDF 277K)
