http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1497/0.pdf

   IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   CIRCUIT No. 00-5212 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Plaintiff-Appellee, v.
   MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant
   _______________________________ No. 00-5213 STATE OF NEW YORK, EX REL.
   ATTORNEY GENERAL ELIOT SPITZER ET AL., Plaintiffs-Appellees v.
   MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant RESPONSE OF UNITED STATES OF
   AMERICA AND THE PLAINTIFF STATES TO MICROSOFT'S MOTION FOR AN ORDER
   GOVERNING FURTHER PROCEEDINGS As the Court has recognized, these
   consolidated cases are of "exceptional importance." 1 And, because the
   district court stayed implementation of the judgment in its entirety
   pending Because of the importance of prompt resolution of this appeal,
   appellees are filing this 1 response two days before the Court's
   deadline. Microsoft should be similarly able to expedite its reply.
   appeal, at Microsoft's request and over plaintiffs' objections, it is
   essential for effective antitrust law enforcement in a critical sector
   of the nation's economy that the appeal be concluded expeditiously. The
   Court's decision to hear the case en banc serves that end. Microsoft's
   proposals for an extended briefing schedule with exceptionally massive
   pleadings do not. Briefing Schedule Microsoft's proposed schedule,
   particularly its request for 60 days from the issuance of a briefing
   order to prepare its principal brief, and 30 days after submission of
   appellees' brief to prepare its reply brief, is excessive and would
   delay resolution of this appeal unnecessarily. Microsoft already has
   had ample time to formulate its position (it specified the same
   "principal" issues for appeal on July 26 as it did on October 2,
   compare Jurisdictional Statement at 21-23 with Motion, Appendix A), and
   it should be ready to file its opening brief promptly. Almost four 2
   months have passed since the district court entered its final order on
   June 7, 2000. Moreover, Microsoft has had the district court's findings
   of fact, which will be the subject of most of the factual issues it
   will raise on appeal, for almost eleven months-since November 5, 1999,
   and the 3 district court's conclusions of law since April 3, 2000.
   Accordingly, as we informed Microsoft in our discussions pursuant to
   this Court's September 26 order, we believe that a November 1 due date
   (36 days after the remand) provides ample time for Microsoft to
   complete and file its opening Although it was not clear until September
   26 whether the appeal would proceed in the 2 Supreme Court or this
   Court, that determination should affect the substance of Microsoft's
   appellate position only in marginal respects, because unlike cases
   reviewed on certiorari, appeals under the Expediting Act, 15 U.S.C. 29,
   may properly encompass a broad range of appellate issues, not merely
   those on which the Court grants certiorari. Moreover, since Microsoft
   submitted its Proposed Findings of Fact to the district court 3 on
   August 10, 1999, it has long had a ready compilation of the evidence it
   relies on to prove its defense and to support whatever factual
   allegations it will seek to raise or challenge on appeal. 2 brief. The
   appellees, on the other hand, have been restricted in their ability to
   prepare for appellate briefing because Microsoft has not yet identified
   all the issues on which it plans to base its appeal. Moreover, because
   appellees propose to avoid unnecessary duplication by joining in a 4
   single brief on the federal issues (see pages 5 and 7, below), the
   multi-party coordination process will further complicate the task, as
   will the Thanksgiving holiday. Nonetheless, our proposal calls for
   appellees to respond 38 days after Microsoft's opening brief, on
   December 8. Microsoft would have the standard two weeks for its reply
   brief, due on December 22. We believe that our proposal reflects a fair
   balance between the parties' need for a reasonable opportunity to
   present their arguments and the compelling public interest in prompt
   disposition of this important case. If, however, the Court determines
   that the briefs should be substantially longer than we recommend below,
   appellees would require a reasonable increase in the time allowed them
   to respond. We also ask that the Court take into account the
   Thanksgiving and Christmas/New Year's holidays, which substantially
   affect the availability of staff and support services, and which could
   disproportionately affect the appellees if Microsoft were allowed more
   time for its opening brief than we have proposed. Length of Briefs The
   Court "disfavors motions to exceed limits on the length of briefs . . .
   [S]uch motions will be granted only for extraordinarily compelling
   reasons." D.C. Cir. R. 28(f)(1). Microsoft Microsoft promises to
   challenge "a number of the district court' factual findings" 4 (Motion
   for an Order Governing Further Proceedings at 4), but it has thus far
   specified just two (Jurisdictional Statement at 16). Microsoft lists
   nineteen "principal legal issues" in its motion, but its specific legal
   arguments are only hinted at, and the list is described as
   non-exhaustive (Motion at 3, Appendix A; Jurisdictional Statement at
   16). 3 nonetheless proposes briefs four times the length permitted by
   Fed. R. App. P. 32(a)(7): 56,000 words for the principal briefs-well
   over 200 pages in non-proportionally spaced type-and 28,000 words for
   Microsoft's reply. There is no justification for this extraordinary
   request. This is an appeal, not a retrial. Although Microsoft attempts
   to portray its case as unusually complex, a review of the appendix of
   "principal legal issues" it intends to raise on appeal (Motion at 3,
   Appendix A) demonstrates that those legal issues do not differ
   significantly in complexity or scope from those presented in any civil
   antitrust case (and, indeed, many of Microsoft's "legal" issues are
   largely factual disputes with the district court's findings). Microsoft
   also indicates that it intends to challenge "a number of" the district
   court's factual findings, but it is the responsibility of appellate
   counsel to identify the most significant factual issues-those that it
   contends constitute "clear error" and on which the determinative legal
   conclusions depend. Criminal and civil appellants in cases large and
   small are routinely subject to the length limits of Rule 32. The size
   of the record here may justify some latitude on the principal brief,
   but far short of quadrupling the page limits on principal and reply
   briefs. The cases on which Microsoft relies do not support its
   extraordinary request. Of the old antitrust cases cited by Microsoft,
   in only one did the court permit defendant to file a 200-page brief.
   And that case, Brown Shoe, was indeed unusual because it was the first
   in which the Court undertook a comprehensive review of the 1950
   amendments and accompanying extensive legislative history to section 7
   of the Clayton Act. Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U.S. 294,
   311-312 (1962). Here, Microsoft asks the Court to review antitrust
   issues with which the courts are well familiar and have long
   experience. Nor do the agency cases from this Circuit provide support
   for Microsoft's request. In none of these cases was a single petitioner
   granted 4 anywhere near the 56,000 words sought by Microsoft. Rather,
   the respondent agency was given additional space to respond to multiple
   briefs filed by numerous petitioning parties. In Michigan v. EPA, 1999
   WL 229221 at *3 (D.C. Cir. Mar. 19, 1999), involving 32 separate
   petitions for review, the EPA was given 38,500 words to respond to 11
   different briefs totaling 42,250 words. In Transmission Access Policy
   Study Group v. FERC, 1998 WL 633827 (D.C. Cir. Aug. 13, 1998),
   involving 65 separate petitions, the agency was given 62,500 words to
   respond to 13 briefs totaling 127,500 words; and in American Trucking
   Ass'n v. EPA, 1998 WL 65651 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 21, 1998), involving 6
   separate petitions, the EPA was given 41,250 words to respond to three
   briefs totaling 41,249 words. The excessively long briefs Microsoft
   seeks to file would burden the Court and inevitably delay disposition
   of the appeal. As explained above, we believe the Court should set a
   schedule that will allow briefing to be completed this calendar year,
   even though such a schedule will be significantly more burdensome for
   the appellees than for Microsoft. Allowing Microsoft virtually
   unlimited latitude to expand brief lengths would make it impractical
   for appellees to meet such a schedule. Moreover, if Microsoft is
   allowed to file principal and reply briefs totaling 63,000 more words
   than the rules provide, appellees would of course require a
   corresponding increase in the length of their briefs. Microsoft's
   legitimate needs would be fairly accommodated by increasing the limit
   for its principal brief by 10,000 words, to 24,000 words. The United
   States and the States will undertake to consolidate their arguments on
   the federal issues in a single brief limited to the same 24,000 words
   as Microsoft's principal brief. The States would also file a separate
   brief of no more than 7,000 words on issues of particular interest to
   them. Microsoft's reply brief should be 5 limited to the standard 7,000
   words. Amicus Briefs The Court's rules provide that "[a]mici curiae on
   the same side must join in a single brief to the extent practicable."
   D.C. Cir. R. 29(d). We see no reason to depart from that rule by
   imposing an absolute limit of one amicus brief per side "absent a
   strong showing of cause for separate briefs," as Microsoft proposes.
   Motion at 2 n.2. Given the exceptional importance of this case, and the
   unusually wide range of interests involved, there is even more reason
   than usual to preserve the opportunity for potential amici to
   demonstrate that it is not practicable to join in a single brief. In
   order to avoid delaying the briefing schedule, we propose that amici be
   required to file their briefs at the same time as the principal brief
   of the party they support, rather than 7 days later as permitted by
   Fed. R. App. P. 29(e). Oral Argument We urge the Court to set argument
   for as soon as possible after the briefs and appendix are filed. As the
   Court has recognized by its actions so far, this important case
   deserves the speediest possible resolution. We hope that the Court will
   set the case for argument in January 2001. In our view, Microsoft's
   request for 90 minutes of argument per side is premature. We suggest
   that the parties should submit their oral argument time requests
   promptly after the filing of Microsoft's reply brief.5 Microsoft's
   suggestion that the Court "consider" additional pre- or post-argument
   briefs is 5 also premature. Motion at 6. There is no reason at this
   time to think that such briefs would be necessary. 6 Appendix and
   Format of Additional Copies of Briefs Appellees agree with Microsoft's
   proposal to use a deferred joint appendix. We further propose that, to
   avoid delaying completion of the briefing, Microsoft file the joint
   appendix simultaneously with its reply brief. Pursuant to Fed. R. App.
   P. 30(c)(2)(B), final versions of the principal briefs would be filed
   by January 5, 2001. The United States and the States also agree with
   Microsoft's proposal that the Court authorize the parties to file
   additional copies of their briefs, along with hyperlinks to supporting
   authority and factual materials, in CD ROM format, similar to the CD
   ROM versions of the Proposed Findings of Fact and Proposed Conclusions
   of Law plaintiffs filed with the district court. CONCLUSION The Court
   should issue an order providing that: Microsoft shall file its opening
   brief, limited to 24,000 words, by November 1, 2000. Appellees shall
   file a single brief, limited to 24,000 words, on the federal issues and
   a single brief on the issues of particular concern to the State
   appellees, limited to 7,000 words, by December 8, 2000. Microsoft shall
   file its reply brief, limited to 7,000 words, by December 22, 2000.
   Briefs of amici curiae shall be filed at the same time as the principal
   brief of the party they support. Microsoft shall file the deferred
   appendix on December 22, 2000. 7 Respectfully submitted. /s/ ELIOT
   SPITZER A. DOUGLAS MELAMED Attorney General of New York Acting
   Assistant Attorney General PREETA D. BANSAL Solicitor General JEFFREY
   H. BLATTNER HARRY FIRST Deputy Assistant Attorney General Chief,
   Antitrust Bureau MELANIE L. OXHORN CATHERINE G. O'SULLIVAN Assistant
   Solicitor General ROBERT B. NICHOLSON RICHARD L. SCHWARTZ PHILIP R.
   MALONE Assistant Attorney General ADAM D. HIRSH 120 Broadway ANDREA
   LIMMER New York, New York 10271 CHRISTOPHER SPRIGMAN (212) 416-6229
   Attorneys JAMES E. DOYLE U.S. Department of Justice Attorney General of
   Wisconsin 601 D Street, N.W. KEVIN J. O'CONNOR Washington, D.C. 20530
   Assistant Attorney General (202) 514-2413 Lead State Counsel Office of
   Attorney General State Capitol Post Office Box 7857 Suite 114 East
   Madison WI 53707-7857 8 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE I hereby certify that on
   this 3rd day of October, 2000, I served a copy of the foregoing
   RESPONSE OF UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE PLAINTIFF STATES TO
   MICROSOFT'S MOTION FOR AN ORDER GOVERNING FURTHER PROCEEDINGS on the
   following: Bradley P. Smith, Esquire (hand delivery, with disk)
   Sullivan & Cromwell 1701 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. 8th Floor Washington,
   DC 20006 (202) 956-7500 John Warden, Esquire (fax, federal express)
   Sullivan & Cromwell 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 (212) 558-4000
   William Neukom, Esquire (federal express) Microsoft Corporation One
   Microsoft Way Redmond, WA 98052 (425) 869-1327 ANDREA LIMMER (202)
   514-2413
