http://www.ftpeck.ihs.gov/recreati.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

                         RECREATIONAL     ACTIVITIES
                          bluline.gif (11170 bytes)
                          billie.jpg (69010 bytes)

   FISHING IN NORTHEASTERN MONTANA

   :The Missouri River Country of northeastern Montana provides a wide
   range of exciting and unspoiled angling opportunities available only in
   this unique corner of the Northern Great Plains. Smaller reservoirs,
   creeks and rivers harbor lunkers yet still offer the intimacy many
   fishermen seek, while Fort Peck Reservoir and the Big Muddy itself
   provide the challenges and rewards of big-water fishing. With
   four-season opportunities and habitually light fishing pressure, it is
   no wonder that the Missouri River Country is a well-kept angling
   secret. Shore fishermen, fly fishermen, boat fishermen-- no one's
   disappointed. It's so good here that there are those who would rather
   keep the fifty different species and lunker opportunities to
   themselves, thank you.

   Fort Peck Reservoir

   Eighty miles west of Poplar and only 60 from Wolf Point lies one of the
   few waters in the country where an angler can legitimately expect to
   corner a 12 pound walleye. The largest hydraulic earth-filled dam in
   the world holds back 49 other species of fish as well as 1,500 miles of
   shoreline and a body of water 130 miles long. Northern pike to 30
   pounds are often caught alongside trophy walleye and sauger. Lakers
   generally run from 4 to 6 pounds with a few up to 19. Channel cats run
   to 20 pounds, chinooks over 20 pounds, and those battlin' paddlefish
   frequently exceed 100 pounds. Smallmouth, crappie, yellow perch,
   freshwater drum and sturgeon provide welcome breaks in the action.
   Social butterflies will be sorely disappointed while those who find
   secret hotspots will feel indulged: it is not unknown to fish all day
   without encountering a fellow angler. The adjacent river, dredge cuts
   and below-dam sites are equally species-gifted and challenge boat-,
   shore- and fly-fishermen to try their luck alongside camping,
   picnicking and other recreational opportunities afforded by these
   beautiful riverlands.

   For most, the operative word here is WALLEYE. Fort Peck fishery is such
   an exceptional fishery that the Professional Walleye Trail has chosen
   it as one of its four major tournament sites two years in a row.
   Walleye fishermen can expect to catch their favorite beasts in the
   two-to-five pound category regularly with an occasional eight to ten
   and even twelve pounder rounding out the stringer. In 1995 a monster
   16.3 pounder was pulled from the reservoir. It could be your turn next,
   after mine.

   Missouri River

   The Missouri River from the Fort Peck Dam east to the North Dakota
   border holds more excellent fishing opportunities. Near Fort Peck
   itself, dredge cuts and the cold water river section immediately below
   the dam show exceptional northern pike and rainbow trout fishing as
   well as walleye and sauger. Moving eastward, the mouths of inflowing
   tributaries, especially the Milk and the Poplar Rivers, are consistent
   producers and during the spring spawning season provide truly
   exceptional action. One well-kept secret is the quality of the Poplar
   River which runs within 100 yards of the Poplar Indian Health Hospital.
   You must discover the secret yourself. I'm not allowed to blab.

   Fishing for Dinosaurs

   The Missouri River and Yellowstone River in eastern Montana and western
   North Dakota offer a unique opportunity to catch the huge, prehistoric
   fish named for its manner of locomotion. These monsters are
   traditionally caught by snagging with a treble hooks and weights setup
   from just after iceout until June. The wise eat their Wheaties:
   paddlefish of 60 pounds are common with quite a few specimens over 100
   pounds caught every year. The flesh is a culinary delight and their
   eggs are compared favorably with imported caviar.

   HUNTING FORT PECK AT ITS VERY BEST

   Picture a prairie with stands of cotton wood in the coulees and river
   bottoms along with vast shore lines. Spectacular sunrises and sunsets
   encompass the finest hunting in the North American Continent. It will
   be difficult to decide weather to stalk trophy game or fish for
   abundant denizen of the deep.

   The grass lands are home to significant populations of upland game
   birds including: sage hens, sharptail grouse, hungarian partridge and
   pheasants which await the wing shoot enthusiast. Geese and ducks are
   lured to the water fouler who prefers to hunt with flocks of birds, not
   hunters.

   Big game hunting for elk, mule deer, white tail deer, antelope and
   sheep is available of general season hunting. A premier archery season
   around the Fort Peck reservoir affords the chance to collect a trophy
   bull elk for those in search of the challenge. Herds of big game are
   large enough to allow several tags for certain species.

   The long range marksman will find prairie dog towns that are untouched.
   There are also many fur bearing species such as coyote, badger, bobcat,
   mountain lion and others.

   All of this is readily available on thousands of acres of state,
   federal, tribal and private land open for public use. If you care to
   share in the natural splendor, abundant wildlife and stress free way of
   life, please come join us the Fort Peck Area.

   ADDITIONAL RECREATIONAL SPORTS FOR ALL AGES

   The Fort Peck Reservation and the surrounding areas have endless
   recreational opportunities. There are seasonal recreational sports for
   all ages. For the youth there is Little league, Babe Ruth, and Legion
   baseball programs as well as softball for girls and adults.

   Water sports are also available, swimming is available local swimming
   pools in Wolf Point and Culbertson.  Other recreational sports:

                                    YOUTH
              Soccer, Baseball, Football, Wrestling, Volleyball
         Girls softball, Swimming, Girls basketball, Boys basketball
                                   ADULTS
          Softball, Basketball,Golf, Racquetball,Horseback riding,
           Bowling, Rodeo, Camping, Tennis, Water skiing, Boating

   Employment Facilities Communities History Education Housing Recreation

             Send any comments or suggestion about this site to:
                      webmaster@bilb2.billings.ihs.gov

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Wednesday May 30, 2001  2:04 PM
