http://5aday.nci.nih.gov/index-about.shtml

   5 A Day title logo with colorful fruit and vegetables

   Home

   about the program header

   The national 5 A Day for Better Health Program gives Americans a
   simple, positive messageeat 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables
   every day for better health. The program is jointly sponsored by the
   National Cancer Institute (NCI) in the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services and the Produce for Better Health Foundation (PBH), a
   nonprofit consumer education foundation representing the fruit and
   vegetable industry. The National Cancer Institute funds behavior change
   and communications research to determine strategies that are effective
   to increase fruit and vegetable consumption.

Goals

   To increase the average consumption of fruits and vegetables to 5
   servings daily.

Objectives

   To increase public awareness of the importance of eating 5 or more
   servings of fruits and vegetables every day for better health; and
   To provide consumers with specific information about how to include
   more servings of fruits and vegetables into daily eating patterns.

Background (Spanish)

   Since its inception in late 1991, the 5 A Day for Better Health program
   has proven to be one of the nation's most widely recognized health
   promotion programs. As the largest national public-private nutrition
   education program ever launched, the 5 A Day program's strength is the
   combined effort of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the Produce
   for Better Health Foundation (PBH), a not-for-profit consumer education
   foundation, and their new partners, including the Centers for Disease
   Control and Prevention (CDC), American Cancer Society (ACS), United
   State Department of Agriculture (USDA), United Fresh Fruit and
   Vegetable Association, Produce Marketing Association (PMA), Dole Food
   Co, Inc., and the National Alliance for Nutrition and Activity (NANA).
   The program seeks to increase the number of fruits and vegetables
   Americans eat each day to five or more servings. Along with this main
   goal, the program works to inform Americans that eating fruits and
   vegetables can improve their health and may reduce the risk of cancer.
   Another objective is to show easy ways to add more fruits and
   vegetables to one's daily eating pattern.
   Results of the program's efforts have, so far, been encouraging. The
   percentage of Americans who know they should eat five or more servings
   of fruits and vegetables a day has increased nearly fivefold-from 8 to
   36 percent-since the 5 A Day for Better Health program began in 1991.
   Even better is the fact that during the first three years of the
   program, the average adult's daily consumption of fruits and vegetables
   has increased significantly. Data from the United States Department of
   Agriculture's (USDA) Continuing Surveys of Food Intakes by Individuals
   (CSFII), shows that from 1989 to 1991, adults ate an average of 3.9
   daily servings of fruits and vegetables. In 1994 that number had
   increased to approximately 4.4 servings per day -only about a half a
   serving from the recommended minimum of five. As Americans continue to
   increase their fruit and vegetable consumption, the National 5 A Day
   Partnership will continue in its efforts to encourage all Americans to
   build their intake to five to nine daily servings.
   The 5 A Day audience targeted by the national media program is all
   adult Americans currently trying to eat more fruits and vegetables, but
   not yet eating the recommended minimum of five servings daily (i.e.,
   generally eating two to three servings), or about 40 to 50 percent of
   the U.S. population. Through a broad spectrum of activities, the
   program builds awareness, encourages eating five or more servings of
   fruits and vegetables every day, and offers easy, practical ways to
   reach that goal.
   National Cancer Institute
   NCI coordinates a national media campaign to communicate the 5 A Day
   message. The media campaign's strategy is to teach consumers how to add
   a variety of fruits and vegetables in easy and tasty ways into their
   lives. Materials and messages focus on actions that help consumers fit
   5 A Day into their daily lifestyles.
   At the local level, 55 state and U.S. territorial health agencies are
   licensed by NCI to establish and coordinate 5 A Day programs within
   their states and territories to reach consumers with the 5 A Day
   message. The national partnership is implemented at the community level
   through statewide coalitions involving both industry and state
   licensees. Coalition participants include state and county health
   agencies, state departments of education, state departments of
   agriculture, cooperative extensions, voluntary agencies, businesses,
   hospitals, and state dietetics associations. Currently, 81 percent of
   states have a state and/or local 5 A Day coalition.
   NCI also has awarded nine four-year and 25 one-year grants to state
   health agencies, universities, and cancer centers to implement and
   evaluate the effect of 5 A Day activities in schools, workplaces and
   other community settings.
   Produce for Better Health Foundation
   PBH serves as the central coordinator for members of industry involved
   in spreading the 5 A Day message. NCI has granted PBH a license to work
   with NCI to use the 5 A Day program and materials and to sublicense
   industry participants. Industry licensees reach consumers with
   informational and motivational 5 A Day messages at the point of
   purchase, through printed ads and broadcast media, and through their
   own employees and communities. PBH membership embraces virtually all
   segments of the fruit and vegetable industry, including fresh, frozen,
   dried, canned, and juice. PBH has licensed approximately 1,000 industry
   participants, including 35,000 grocery retailers, foodservice
   operators, growers, shippers, packagers, merchandisers, commodity
   boards, trade associations, branded products and others to conduct 5 A
   Day efforts.
   National 5 A Day Partnership
   NCI has recently undertaken a thorough review of the National 5 A Day
   for Better Health Program, resulting in a series of recommendations for
   the next phase of the Program (visit www.5aday.gov for the online
   report). Since January 2001, the Program has entered into an
   unprecedented expansion phase, and is working to develop and strengthen
   collaborations with other Federal agencies and voluntary organizations
   in future program activities. Organizations involved include the
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Cancer
   Society, U.S. Department of Agriculture, the produce industry, state
   departments of health, and the National Alliance for Nutrition and
   Activity (an advocacy group working on behalf of nutrition and physical
   activity).

   CAPTION: Contacts:

  State health organizations: Kathy Cobb
                              Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences
                              National Cancer Institute
                              Phone: 301/496-8250
  Food industry organization: Barbara Berry
                              Produce for Better Health Foundation
                              Phone: 302/235ADAY
                              Fax: 302/235-5555
  Media:                      LaTonya Kittles
                              National Cancer Institute
                              Phone: 301/451-6055
                              Fax: 301/402-0894

   what's new header
     * April 25-27, 2002 Rescheduled National 5 A Day Partnership Meeting
     * Dole Vice President Accepts Position as Director of NCI 5 A Day
       Program
     * 5 A Day Program Monograph (PDF)
     * Winter 2001 Seasonal Package
     * CDC Funds Obesity Grants in 12 States
     * July 2001 Focus Group Executive Summary
     * Current Newsletter
     * Opening for a Technology Fellow

   short cuts logo
     * nutrition.gov
     * aboutproduce.com
     * Order NCI Materials
     * Produce for Better Health Foundation
     * Produce for Better Health Foundation 5 A Day Catalog
     * Dole Food Company
     * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Nutrition and Physical
       Activity Web site
     * 5 A Day program Evaluation Report
     * AHRQ Evidence Report
     * CancerNet

      5 A Day Home    NIH Home    NCI Home    DCCPS Home    Contact Us
