http://ora.ca.gov/about.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                                  ORA Home




                      News & Announcements
                      Consumer Protection & Complaints
                      About the ORA
                      Phone Directory
                      Archives
                      Site Map




                                ORA Proceedings



                             Electric
                             Gas
                             Telecommunications
                             Water
                             Legislature



   [sm_banner3.gif]

   wedge Home wedge About ORA
   About Office of Ratepayer Advocates

   Mission: To represent independently the interests of all public utility
   customers and subscribers in Commission proceedings in order to obtain
   the lowest possible rate for service consistent with reliable and safe
   service levels. (Public Utilities Code 309.5)

   Staffing: ORA has an authorized staff of 113 (98 on board) including
   accountants, economists, engineers, and policy analysts. Legal support
   is provided through the Commission's Legal Division.

   SB 960: SB 960 (written in 1996, Section 309.5 of the Public Utilities
   Code) sets forth the requirements of ORA. Key aspects of SB 960
   include:
     * the Director shall be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by
       the Senate;
     * the ORA budget is separately identified in the California Public
       Utilities Commission's annual budget;
     * the Director of ORA shall annually appear before legislative policy
       committees to report on activities of the Office.

   What does ORA do?
   ORA participates as an independent party in over 100 proceedings and
   other forums before the Commission related to electric, gas, telephone
   and water utilities representing the interests of all consumers.
   Examples of recent work include the following:
     * Independent analysis of mergers, including the GTE/Bell Atlantic
       merger application. ORA identified and advocated for benefits to be
       passed on to consumers;
     * PG&E’s hydro-electric generation system: ORA has been an active
       party before the PUC and the California Legislature providing
       analysis to assure that consumers get a fair price for these assets
       and that new owners do not have excessive market power.
     * Analysis that advocated that the Commission reduce electric utility
       returns due to less risk under current restructuring guarantees;
       Strong advocacy for choice for all consumers in electric
       restructuring and local phone service;
     * Support of consumer related legislation.
     * ORA regularly prepares a list of Energy Service Providers and
       guidelines for consumers thinking of switching providers;
     * ORA developed minimum service quality and reliability standards.

   ORA Business Plan:
   ORA's plans are to meet 6 key objectives in serving its client base of
   consumers:
     * Protect Consumer Interests
     * Advocate Lowest Possible Rates
     * Promote Competition
     * Help Shape Rules for Fair, Efficient and Effective Markets
     * Provide Consumer Information
     * Ensure Efficient Administration of Public Purpose Programs

   The most significant proceedings for 1999-2000 include:

   The Pacific Gas and Electric Hydro facility auction:
   This proceeding deals with the proposed auction of the 5,000 Mw PG&E
   system.

   The Pacific Bell New Regulatory Framework Filing
   This filing will involve a review of the performance based pricing
   mechanism set up for Pacific Bell.

   Telecommunications Service Quality Investigation
   This proceeding will be used to set new service quality standards and
   enforcement for telecommunication service providers. This is the key
   proceeding to address recent consumer complaints regarding Pacific
   Bell's service.

   The Natural Gas Strategy Plan
   This proceeding will consider major restructuring reforms in the gas
   industry.

   Open Access & Network Architecture Development Proceeding and Local
   Competition Proceeding
   These two proceedings address key aspects of the terms and conditions
   for competition in the local telephone exchange market.

   Electricity Competition and Unbundling
   Several proceedings for PG&E, SCE, and SDG&E have been opened to
   develop competitive options for customers and reflect these options in
   unbundled rates and ratemaking procedures for the competitive electric
   market, including the provision of unbundled revenue cycle services
   (metering and billing).

   Competitive Transition Costs & Section 376 Costs
   The three major electric utilities will each be requesting approval for
   their stranded costs and costs of regulatory implementation in a major
   proceeding involving billions of ratepayer dollars.

   Unbundled Cost of Capital
   This proceeding will determine the appropriate rate of return for
   utility assets still subject to regulation.

   SDG&E and SCE Performance Based Ratemaking
   This proceeding will set new benchmarks for incentive based rates and
   reexamine the performance based ratemaking mechanisms for SDG&E and
   SCE.



                             Back to Top of Page



                          __________ search
                          (*) ORA Site   ( ) My CA




                                Related Links

                                Feedback

                                Organization

                                Contact

                                Employment


           Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy, | E-mail Webmaster
              © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor
