http://organdonor.gov/TissueDonorBrochureNewCard.pdf

   What organs can be transplanted? Will I receive less aggressive medical
   Donated kidneys, hearts, lungs, livers, treatment because I am willing
   to be a donor? You can help up You can help up pancreases, and
   intestines can be transplanted. No. Your own physicians do everything
   possible to 50 people- to 50 people- to save your life. Only after they
   determine that What tissues can be transplanted? further efforts would
   be futile does a transplant All you need to do is say YES to organ
   Blood vessels, bone, bone marrow, connective team become involved. and
   tissue donation on your donor card tissue, corneas, heart valves,
   middle ears, and and/or driver's license and DISCUSS skin are among the
   tissues that can be What if members of my family oppose your decision
   with your family. transplanted. donation? The best way to ensure your
   wishes are carried Read on to learn more. Someday you Who decides who
   receives donated organs? out is to tell your family how strongly you
   feel could be a lifesaver for someone in The Organ Procurement and
   Transplantation about being an organ and tissue donor. You also need.
   Network matches donated organs with critically should sign and carry a
   donor card, designate ill patients on the national waiting list.
   Medical "organ donor" on your driver's license, and urgency,
   compatibility of blood chemistries, and record your wishes in legal
   documents. body size are considerations in making the Why consider Why
   consider match. Does organ donation leave a body donating your donating
   your disfigured? Does the donor family meet the recipient? Donation
   does not change the appearance of organs & tissues? organs & tissues?
   Most donor families are told the age, sex, the body for the funeral
   service. occupation, and other general characteristics of the
   recipient. If both the donor family and the How much will organ
   donation cost my recipient agree, they may exchange names, family? A
   few very good reasons: correspond, and even meet. Nothing. All costs
   related to donation are paid As of June 2001,Approximately 77,000 by
   recipients and their health insurance. Your people in the U. S. were on
   the national Must I have medical tests to register as an family pays
   only for the medical care provided waiting list for an organ. organ and
   tissue donor? before death and funeral expenses. No testing is needed
   before you sign a donor An average of 15 people die every day card or
   designate "organ donor" on your driver's Are there religious objections
   to organ and because not enough organs are license. At the time of
   donation organs are tissue donation? available. tested for infectious
   diseases, including HIV. Most major religions in the U.S. support Only
   healthy organs are actually transplanted. donation as a gift of life to
   fellow human beings. Organ and tissue transplantation saves lives. For
   example, about 60 people receive life-enhancing organ transplants each
   day and about 82 percent of patients who receive a DO D N Organ/Tissue
   Donor Card O Organ/Tissue Donor Card A NA donated kidney are still
   alive 5 years TE T LIFE E LIFE later. I wish to donate my organs and
   tissues. I wish to give: I wish to donate my organs and tissues. I wish
   to give: 1any needed organs and tissues only the following organs and 1
   1any needed organs and tissues only the following organs and 1 tissues:
   tissues: Donor Donor Signature Date Signature Date It's a Way of Life
   Witness Witness Witness Witness What People Say When You've Made When
   You've Made About Organ & Tissue Donation the Decision to Become the
   Decision to Become an Organ and Tissue Donor, an Organ and Tissue
   Donor, "I was privileged to be part of their decision, their Here's
   What To Do. Here's What To Do. OrOgragnan generosity, their gift of
   life, their ultimate gesture of humanity." Dr. Kenneth Moritsugu, who
   honored the wishes of his wife Donna Lee and his daughter Vikki by
   donating their organs and tissues after they died in separate car Sign
   the organ and tissue donor card included in accidents. Their donations
   helped 13 people. this brochure, and carry it in your wallet or purse
   "It is just like when you plan for a child's birth. You at all times.
   Have two people witness your &T & iTsissuseue need to plan for that
   time when you pass on. Discuss signature, preferably family members.
   organ donation with your family. Make a commitment. Get your organ
   donor card and understand that you If you have a driver's license, find
   out from your are going to make a difference in many, many, local motor
   vehicle department how you can people's lives. You have a chance to
   save lives." indicate on it that you want to be an organ and tissue
   donor. Do D noantaitoinon Olympic Track Gold Medal Winner Carl Lewis,
   who became an advocate and educator about organ and Tell your family
   members that you have decided tissue donation when the sister of a
   close friend needed a liver transplant. to become an organ and tissue
   donor so they will understand your wishes and support them. "By a
   simple decision, a bereaved family can either save other families from
   the devastation they themselves are going through or condemn them to a
   If you are under age 18, you may need to take lifetime of sorrow.
   Knowing that, I often wonder how additional steps to make a valid
   donation any other decision is possible." declaration. Reg and Maggie
   Green, who donated the organs of Approximately 77,000 people are
   waiting for their seven-year-old son Nicholas who was killed by organs.
   Sign an organ and tissue donor card robbers while vacationing in Italy.
   today! D "My son has saved six people's lives. I wish I could O save so
   many lives." For more information, visit the U.S. Department of Health
   and Human Services web site at N Dr. Alfredo Herrera, who honored his
   16-year-old son's www.organdonor.gov or call: 1.888.Ask.HRSA A wishes
   by donating his organs after he died in a car accident. His son had
   indicated on his driver's license TE LIFE It's a Way of Life It's a Way
   of Life D D O O N N A A T T E E LIFE LIFE Organ/Tissue Donor Card
   Organ/Tissue Donor Card Tommy G. Thompson Secretary U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services Please share your wishes with your family.
   Please share your wishes with your family. Please share your wishes
   with your family. Please share your wishes with your family.
