http://www.tfhrc.gov/hnr20/mattech.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu.

   menu.

     Materials Technology Research

     At the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center (TFHRC), research on
     materials technologies is an ongoing project. We are constantly
     looking for new materials and methods to improve the quality of our
     nation's highway system. Our efforts involve in-house and
     contract-sponsored research on areas such as bridge coatings,
     asphalt concrete and asphalt binders, portland cement concrete,
     high-performance materials for bridge construction, and waste and
     byproduct materials, to name a few. Through the following programs,
     our commitment is to provide the highway community with field
     technical support and the most comprehensive source of information
     on materials technology.

     Asphalt Technology
     Our program specializes in the design, testing, and evaluation of
     asphalt materials (binders and mixtures) to prevent or anticipate
     long-term pavement damage and to optimize materials used in asphalt
     mixtures for specific paving applications and environments.
     .............................

     Bridge Nondestructive Evaluation (NDE)
     This project is focused on testing and development of implementable
     tools for the nondestructive evaluation of highways and bridges. Our
     goal is to test and evaluate research prototypes and commercially
     available instrumentation, develop innovative methods for using NDE,
     and field test new technologies to solve real problems faced by
     State DOT's... [more]
     .............................

     Bridge Coating
     Our goal is to assist highway bridge owners in optimizing steel
     bridge corrosion control maintenance operations. We have targeted
     the key issues regarding the performance of coating material,
     surface preparation requirements, corrosivity of various
     environments, environmental compliance and impact, and containment
     and disposal of waste generated during bridge repainting jobs...
     [more]
     .............................

     Highway Operations
     The purpose of our program is to provide effective solutions to
     restore optimum highway performance during events that interrupt
     service. The program consists of five components: construction,
     maintenance, weather, natural disasters, and incident management.
     Our approach is to analyze each of these areas and target and
     promote activities in terms of research and technology applications
     that will minimize traffic flow disruption, improve safety, and
     optimize highway operations.
     .............................

     Recycling, Secondary Materials, and Waste Utilization
     Our goal is to encourage widespread use of secondary materials
     (i.e., waste, byproducts, and recycled materials) and associated
     technologies in the construction and rehabilitation of the highway
     infrastructure. We disseminate information and practical knowledge
     on current technically sound uses, and we also encourage continued
     investigation of promising new secondary materials and technologies,
     including research and field trials... [more]
     .............................

     Portland Cement Concrete Pavements (PCCP)
     The Portland Cement Concrete Pavements (PCCP) program consists of a
     series of studies to systematically investigate various aspects of
     PCCP material properties and behaviors to enhance the construction
     and performance of concrete pavements in the field. Our objective is
     to develop and implement a set of guidelines to enable the industry
     to select materials, construct highway structures, design mixes, and
     perform recycling, repair, and rehabilitation of existing PCCP that
     will result in high performance concrete pavements... [more]
     .............................

     Simulation, Imaging, and Mechanics of Asphalt Pavement (SIMAP)
     Our goal is to support the validation and improvement of existing
     mixture design procedures (including Superpave) and to provide
     pavement engineers with tools to design better performing pavements.
     Among the latest scientific tools and techniques being developed in
     our lab are: 3-D imaging and analysis of the aggregate structure in
     pavements, micro-mechanics modeling to link the aggregate structure
     to pavement properties, and advanced computer modeling to enable
     engineers design hot mixes to achieve a desired aggregate structure.
     .............................



   More Information.

   Publications.
   Check out our Materials Technology research related Publications &
   Articles.

   NEW PUBLICATIONS:
   New Item! States Achieve Safety & Savings with Rapid Deployment for
   Bridge Painting from July Focus.

   Related Research.
   TFHRC's Asphalt Laboratories
   TFHRC's Bituminous Mixtures Laboratory

   TFHRC's Bridge Coatings Technology

   TFHRC's Bridge Management Information Systems (BMIS) Laboratory

   TFHRC's Chemistry Laboratory

   TFHRC's Concrete Laboratory

   TFHRC's Non Destructive Evaluation Techniques (NDE) Validation Center

   THRC's Paint & Corrosion Laboratory

   TFHRC's Secondary Materials Recycling Center

   Other Links.
   FHWA's Infrastructure Core Business Unit

   Recycled Material Resource Center
   ...............

      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                   http://www.tfhrc.gov/hnr20/mattech.htm
