http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov/menu.htm?docid=966



   begin subhead About the Programs end subhead

   item The Big Picture of ARS Research
   item 2001 & 2002 Performance Plan
   item 2000 ARS Annual Performance Report
   item ARS Strategic Plan 1997 - 2002 Working Document
   item About this Web Site
   item Search Help
   item NPS Staff Directory

   begin subhead Search end subhead
      ____________________ Begin Search
   (*)  National Programs Site
       ( ) Patents
       ( ) People
       ( ) Locations
       ( ) Publications ( ) Projects
                        ( ) Programs
                        ( ) News
   ( ) All ARS Web Sites
   [X] Use thesaurus

                                                    More Search Options...


   begin subhead News end subhead
   Fungal Species as Biocontrols
   Grass Hedges to Curb Soil Runoff
   Keeping Nutrients in Manure
   Beet Armyworms: What Do They Really Want?
   Hot Water and Food Safety Monitoring

   list all >>


   begin subhead Calendar end subhead

   NPS Customer/Stakeholder outreach

   item Bioenergy Planning and Coordination Meet (11/13/01)
   item Mid Course Review of Methyl Bromide Phas (06/13/01)
   item Insects and Mites: Identification/Class (10/30/00)
   item Crop Management and Production Efficienc (10/30/00)
   item Weeds (National Programs 304 and 305) (07/11/00)


   begin subhead Related Information end subhead
   Links:

   item REE Directory
   item British Mycological Society, International Symposium on Bioactive
        Fungal Metabolites
   item NPS Intranet
   item ARS Office of Scientific Quality Review
   item Food Safety Conference
   item Beef Home Page
   item The Transfer of Public Science to Patented Technology
   item Progress Report on Food Safety Research
   list all>>



                                        begin subhead Pages end subhead
                                        1 - Introduction

                                        2 - Goal I

                                        3 - Goal II

                                        4 - Goal III

                                        5 - Goal IV

                                        6 - Goal V

                                        7 - Management Initiatives

                                        8 - Appendix



                                        begin subhead See Also end subhead
                                        Documents
                                        1999 ARS Annual Performance Report


                                        [Printer Friendly]

                                           [letter.gif] [email this page]

   2000 ARS Annual Performance Report
   Introduction

   The Agricultural Research Service (ARS) was established on November 2,
   1953, pursuant to authority vested in the Secretary of Agriculture by 5
   U.S.C. 301 and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953, and other
   authorities.

   ARS is the principal in-house research agency of the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture (USDA). Congress first authorized Federally-supported
   agricultural research in the Organic Act of 1862, which established
   what is now USDA. That statute directed the Commissioner of Agriculture
   "... To acquire and preserve in his Department all information he can
   obtain by means of books and correspondence, and by practical and
   scientific experiments..." The scope of USDA's agricultural research
   programs has been expanded and extended more than 60 times in the 139
   years since the Department was created.

   The research currently performed by ARS is authorized by the Department
   of Agriculture Organic Act of 1862 (7 U.S.C. 2201 note), Agricultural
   Research Act of 1935 (7 U.S.C. 427), Research and Marketing Act of 1946
   (P.L. 79-733), as amended (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621 note), Food and
   Agriculture Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-113), as amended (7 U.S.C. 1281 note),
   Food Security Act of 1985 (P.L. 99-198) (7 U.S.C. 3101 note), Food,
   Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (P.L. 101-624) (7
   U.S.C. 1421 note), Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of
   1996 (P.L. 104-127), and Agricultural Research, Extension, and
   Education Reform Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-185). ARS derived most of its
   objectives from statutory language, specifically the "Purposes of
   Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education" set forth in Section
   801 of FAIR.

   The ARS mission is to conduct research to develop and transfer
   solutions to agricultural problems of high national priority and
   provide information access and dissemination to: ensure high-quality,
   safe food, and other agricultural products; assess the nutritional
   needs of Americans; sustain a competitive agricultural economy; enhance
   the natural resource base and the environment; and provide economic
   opportunities for rural citizens, communities, and society as a whole.

   Verification, Validation, and Program Evaluation:
   ARS currently conducts a series of review processes designed to ensure
   the relevance and quality of its research work and maintain the highest
   possible standards for its scientists. This process involves customer
   input to help keep the research focused on the technical needs of the
   American food and agricultural system. Each of the approximately 1,100
   research projects, which are organized into 22 National Programs,
   undergoes a thorough merit review before new or renewed activities are
   begun. All ARS employees, including the scientific workforce, are
   subject to annual performance reviews, and the senior scientists
   undergo a rigorous peer review (Research Position Evaluation
   SystemRPES) on a 3- to 5-year cycle. These processes ensure the
   continuing high quality of the ARS scientific workforce.

   The new National Programs focus the work of the Agency on achieving the
   goals defined in the ARS Strategic Plan. The research priorities for
   each National Program are established with extensive input from
   customers, stakeholders, and partners received, in part, at a series of
   National Program Workshops. A detailed Action Plan is developed for
   each National Program and it is available on the ARS home page
   www.ars.usda.gov.

   In FY 2000, ARS began a series of National Program and program
   component reviews that help to ensure the quality, relevancy,
   effectiveness, and productivity of the work being done in each National
   Program. Additional information on the new ARS quality review program
   is available on the ARS home page under "Scientific Quality Review."
   The Annual Performance Plans will also serve to keep the work of the
   Agency focused on achieving the goals established in the ARS Strategic
   Plan. The aggregate effect of these changes will be a strengthened
   research program and an accountability system that will measure more
   effectively the progress made towards achieving established goals and
   outcomes.

   Additional information describing the key external factors affecting
   the ability of ARS to achieve the goals and objectives described in
   this report and a description of the Agencys partnerships with other
   Federal agencies can be found in the introduction of the ARS Annual
   Performance Plan. The Annual Performance Plans and Reports are also
   available on the ARS home page.

   In FY 2000, ARS reviewed its Strategic Plan as required by GPRA. Since
   a transition was approaching from one Presidential Administration to
   the next, the decision was made to refine and update the existing
   Strategic Plan (1997-2002) rather than completely revise it. However,
   several years of experience with GPRA led us to make substantial
   changes in two parts of the Plan - Administrative, Programmatic, and
   Management: Initiative 2 (National Agricultural Library) and Initiative
   3 (Creative Leadership). The Annual Performance Report for FY 2000
   contains the "old" language from last years Annual Performance Plan,
   but the Accomplishments and Impacts/Outcomes have been reported against
   the new and more relevant indicators contained in Appendix A. Next
   year, Appendix A will be fully integrated into both the Annual
   Performance Plan for FY 2002-2003 and the Annual Performance Report for
   FY 2001.

   In January 1998, ARS requested permission from the Office of Management
   and Budget (OMB) "to describe specific and tangible products, steps,
   intermediate goals, and/or accomplishments that will demonstrate that
   the Agency has successfully met each Performance Measure/Goal in a
   given fiscal year." With OMBs concurrence, ARS has employed narrative
   descriptions of intermediate outcomes and indicators of progress
   instead of numerical metrics. The indicators listed in this Annual
   Performance Report represent intermediate outcomes, significant
   research accomplishments, and actual or anticipated impacts/outcomes of
   the Agencys work, which serve to measure progress during FY 2000. The
   research and technology transfer activities listed in this report are
   not all inclusive of the Agencys work. The indicators reflect, but do
   not adequately capture the broad range of basic research that underpins
   much of the Agencys work. Because of the unique nature of research, as
   recognized by the OMB waiver, ARS accomplishments are described using a
   nonnumeric narrative approach that may differ from the style and format
   used by most other USDA Agencies.

   Only Federal employees were involved in the preparation of this report.



   Strategic Goal/ Management Initiative

   ARS FY 2000 Annual Performance Report

   Goal 1: Through Research and Education, Empower the Agricultural System
   with Knowledge that Will Improve Competitiveness in Domestic
   Production, Processing, and Marketing.

   Performance Goal 1.1.1.1: Demonstrate and transfer to users integrated
   systems.

   Performance Goal 1.1.1.2: Demonstrate and transfer to users
   computer-based simulation models and decision-support systems.

   Performance Goal 1.1.2.1: Demonstrate techniques to control or
   eliminate postharvest insects and diseases, and increase market quality
   and product longevity.

   Performance Goal 1.1.2.2: Demonstrate technologies to control
   quarantine pests.

   Performance Goal 1.1.2.3: New and improved diagnostic tests are
   developed and available.

   Performance Goal 1.1.3.1: Demonstrate postharvest technologies that add
   value and improve quality.

   Performance Goal 1.1.3.2: Provide knowledge and technology to expand
   and improve the grading systems for agricultural commodities and
   products.

   Performance Goal 1.1.3.3: Demonstrate methods to measure the critical
   processing and end-use properties of agricultural commodities important
   to the agricultural marketing system and the processing industry.

   Goal 1: Through Research and Education, Empower the Agricultural System
   with Knowledge that Will Improve Competitiveness in Domestic
   Production, Processing, and Marketing. (Continued)

   Performance Goal 1.1.4.1: Strategic alliances formed with specific
   foreign institutions, leading to the joint development of germplasm and
   value-added technologies, mutually protected through intellectual
   property agreements.

   Performance Goal 1.2.1.1: Experimentally demonstrate the production of
   new, improved, and alternative crops and horticultural products with
   potential for successful introduction and demonstrate the successful
   operation of aquaculture systems.

   Performance Goal 1.2.1.2: Experimentally demonstrate new and improved
   production, harvest, and postharvest handling procedures of these
   crops.

   Performance Goal 1.2.2.1: Experimentally demonstrate improvements in
   processing technologies and develop new bioproducts and uses that have
   potential to increase demand for agricultural commodities.


   Goal II: To Ensure an Adequate Food Supply and Improved Detection,
   Surveillance, Prevention, and Educational Programs for the American
   Publics Health, Safety and Well-Being.


   Performance Goal 2.1.1.1: Demonstrate increases in productivity above
   current levels using sustainable technologies.

   Performance Goal 2.1.1.2: Demonstrate a more efficient and
   cost-effective use of resource inputs while increasing productivity
   above current levels.

   Performance Goal 2.1.2.1: Demonstrate new integrated technologies to
   protect plants, animals, and ecosystems.

   Performance Goal 2.1.3.1: Collections of well-documented germplasm of
   importance to U.S. agricultural security are readily available to
   scientists and breeders for research and development.

   Performance Goal 2.1.3.2: Documented DNA base sequences of agricultural
   importance.

   Performance Goal 2.1.3.3: Release of improved germplasm, varieties, and
   breeds based on effective use of genetic resources.

   Performance Goal 2.1.3.4: Improve methods for identifying useful
   properties of plants, animals, and other organisms, and for
   manipulating the genes associated with these properties.

   Performance Goal 2.1.4.1: Make technologies available for improving
   productivity, safety, and quality, and the security of the agricultural
   production system.

   Performance Goal 2.2.1.1: Transfer knowledge developed by ARS to
   industry and regulatory agencies.

   Goal III: A Healthy and Well-Nourished Population Who Have Knowledge,
   Desire and Means to Make Health Promoting Choices.

   Performance Goal 3.1.1.1: Indicators of function determined and related
   to diet and health.

   Performance Goal 3.1.2.1: Transfer new measurement techniques and data
   to users, release results of surveys, and disseminate effective
   nutrition intervention strategies.

   Performance Goal 3.1.3.1: Demonstrate improved nutritional quality.

   Goal IV: To Enhance the Quality of the Environment through Better
   Understanding of and Building on Agricultures and Forestrys Complex
   Links with Soil, Water, Air, and Biotic Resources.


   Performance Goal 4.1.1.1: Demonstrate concepts and on-farm agricultural
   technologies and management practices that maintain and enhance the
   environment and natural resource base.

   Performance Goal 4.1.1.2: Experimentally demonstrate the
   appropriateness of watershed-scale technologies and practices that
   protect the environment and natural resources.

   Performance Goal 4.1.2.1: Documentation of agriculture's effects on the
   global environment.

   Performance Goal 4.1.2.2: Documentation of how changes in the global
   environment affect agriculture.

   Performance Goal 4.1.3.1: Demonstrate cropland and grazingland
   management strategies that improve productivity and efficiency of
   croplands and grazinglands.

   Performance Goal 4.2.1.1: Risk-reduction strategies and methods
   transferred to the Nation's agricultural industry.

   Performance Goal 4.2.2.1: Improve strategies and technologies that
   reduce the effects of extreme weather variability.

   Performance Goal 4.3.1.1: Deliver integrated pest management strategies
   that are cost-effective and protect natural resources, human health,
   and the environment.

   Performance Goal 4.3.2.1: Demonstrate the effectiveness of integrated
   agricultural production systems in the improvement of natural resources
   and protection of the environment.

   Performance Goal 4.3.2.2: Provide computer-based models and
   decision-support systems to farmers, public agencies, and private
   organizations.

   Performance Goal 4.3.3.1: Demonstrate technologies to store, mix,
   compost, inoculate, incubate, and apply wastes to obtain consistent
   economic benefits while at the same time minimizing environmental
   degradation, nutrient loss, and noxious odors.

   Performance Goal 4.3.3.2: Demonstrate the conversion of agricultural
   waste into liquid fuels and industrial feedstocks.

   Goal V: Empower People and Communities, through Research-Based
   Information and Education, to Address the Economic and Social
   Challenges of Our Youth, Families, and Communities.


   Performance Goal 5.1.1.1: Experimentally demonstrate the successful
   operation of small-scale production and processing systems, evaluate
   small scale animal production systems, and enhance high value
   agricultural products.

   Performance Goal 5.1.2.1: Make information on ARS research results and
   inventions available electronically via the Internet and similar
   resources.

   Performance Goal 5.1.2.2: Provide more cost-effective and efficient
   public information and technology transfer.

   Performance Goal 5.1.2.3: Research programs include information and
   technology transfer considerations.

   Performance Goal 5.1.3.1: Provide small businesses with contacts and
   information on the programs available from public and private sources.

   Performance Goal 5.1.3.2: Expand the types of agreements used by ARS
   and delegate signatory authority to the lowest feasible level.


   Administrative, Programmatic, and Management Initiatives.




   Initiative 1: Support Education: "Support Higher Education in
   Agriculture to Give the Next Generation of Americans the Knowledge,
   Technology, and Applications Necessary to

   Enhance the Competitiveness of U.S. Agriculture".




   Initiative 2: National Agricultural Library: "Ensure and Enhance
   Worldwide Access to

   Agricultural Information through the Programs of the National
   Agricultural Library (NAL)".

   Performance Goal 2.1.1: Implemented selection guidelines for the
   electronic resources to be acquired and used by NAL.

   Performance Goal 2.1.2: Expanded representation of electronic formats
   such as Internet resources, online databases, and digital documents in
   AGRICOLA and NAL's online catalog.

   Performance Goal 2.1.3: A gateway is provided to a large body of
   electronic information on agriculture over a network such as the
   Internet.

   Performance Goal 2.1.4: Demonstrate increased use of agricultural
   information by institutions of higher education.

   Performance Goal 2.2.1: The time for processing requests for services
   and delivering the information requested is further reduced.

   Performance Goal 2.2.2: The gap between the time that information is
   published and made available in NAL-produced databases is further
   reduced.

   Performance Goal 2.2.3: Expanded provision of Internet and other
   technology-related training programs for NAL customers.

   Performance Goal 2.3.1: Establishment of a national archive for
   agricultural literature that serves as a centralized storage facility
   for archival copies prepared by cooperators in the program.

   Performance Goal 2.3.2: Development of a program for monitoring quality
   of electronically archived materials to ensure that the data remain
   accessible.

   Initiative 3: Creative Leadership: Promote Excellence, Relevance, and
   Recognition of Agricultural Research through Creative Leadership in
   Management and Development of Resources, Communications Systems, and
   Partnerships with Our Customers and Stakeholders.

   Performance Goal 3.1.1: The annual performance plan is delivered on
   time.

   Performance Goal 3.1.2: Meet REE deadlines for submission of material
   for inclusion in the Coordinated Research Agenda.

   Performance Goal 3.1.3: Annual conferences of public and private
   individuals are convened to discuss major researchable issues in
   agriculture and to articulate approaches to addressing these problems.

   Performance Goal 3.1.4: Rapid responses to crises.

   Performance Goal 3.2.1: Written policies and guidance to facilitate
   implementation of the Civil Rights program.


   Initiative 3: Creative Leadership: Promote Excellence, Relevance, and
   Recognition of Agricultural Research through Creative Leadership in
   Management and Development of Resources, Communications Systems, and
   Partnerships with Our Customers and Stakeholders. (Continued)


   Performance Goal 3.2.2: Improve all aspects of the Title VII program
   which includes EEO training, data collection, and monitoring and
   evaluation.

   Performance Goal 3.3.1: Partnerships are established.

   Performance Goal 3.3.2: Procedures are implemented.

   Performance Goal 3.3.3: Outside support increases.

   Performance Goal 3.4.1: Improved customer satisfaction.

   Performance Goal 3.4.2: Customer needs are identified.

   Performance Goal 3.5.1: Criteria and priorities identified.

   Performance Goal 3.6.1: Identify core capability requirements and
   develop a scientific staff to meet long-term research needs.

   Performance Goal 3.6.2: Establish a database of ARS experts by
   discipline and research areas of expertise.

   Performance Goal 3.6.3: Train 1,300 postdoctoral students, and
   competitively select 10 percent to fill full-time positions.

   Performance Goal 3.7.1: Customer participation in planning processes.

   Performance Goal 3.7.2: Strategic Plan is developed and communicated to
   REE customers.

   Performance Goal 3.8.1: Internal and external peer reviews are
   conducted on all research projects before implementation.

   Performance Goal 3.8.2: Review of the productivity, quality, and impact
   of individual scientists as scheduled in the Research Position
   Evaluation System (RPES).

   Performance Goal 3.8.3: Program reviews are conducted periodically, and
   programs are sustained or redirected as appropriate.

   Performance Goal 3.9.1: Implement integrated management systems in
   USDA.

   Performance Goal 3.9.2: Correct in a timely manner internal control
   deficiencies.

   Performance Goal 3.9.3: Make available reliable cost accounting
   information.

   Performance Goal 3.9.4: Clean and timely audit opinions are provided on
   audited financial statements.

   Appendix A

   Effectively Marshal the Diverse Capabilities and Resources of ARS.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.1: Maintain up-to-date data on customer
   information needs and satisfaction.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.2: Integrate customer data into continuous
   refinement of operations.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.3: Develop and improve NAL information delivery
   systems.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.4: Develop an Agricultural Subject Headings
   thesaurus.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.5: Increase collaboration via AgNIC (Agriculture
   Network Information Center).

   Appendix A

   Effectively Marshal the Diverse Capabilities and Resources of ARS.
   (Continued)

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.6: Develop programs and services for previously
   under-served audiences.

   Performance Goal 6.2.1.7: Support increased diversity in librarianship
   and information management.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.1: Expand acquisition of information in all
   formats.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.2: Gain space for collection growth.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.3: Preserve and secure collections.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.4: Increase number of records.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.5: Increase linkages to electronic content.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.6: Continue modernization of the Abraham Lincoln
   Building.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.7: Ensure systematic upgrade of equipment.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.8: Ensure security of data and equipment.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.9: Implement new electronic library management
   system with minimal disruption to customers and staff/operations.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.10: Refine administrative and business
   processes, organizational structures, and functions.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.11: Develop Intranet.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.12: Ensure equitable opportunities for staff
   development.

   Performance Goal 6.2.2.13: Implement staff succession plan.

   Performance Goal 6.3.1.1: Annual conferences of public and private
   individuals are convened to discuss major researchable issues in
   agriculture and articulate approaches to addressing these problems.

   Performance Goal 6.3.2.1: Recommendations are implemented and processes
   and practices are modified as appropriate.

   Performance Goal 6.3.2.2: ARS managers, supervisors, and employees are
   better informed on EEO/CR issues.

   Performance Goal 6.3.2.3: Recommendations resulting from the
   agency-wide on-site EEO compliance review are implemented.

   Performance Goal 6.3.2.4: A comprehensive, fully integrated system is
   installed to assist in analyzing workforce profiles, analyzing adverse
   impacts, and monitoring every aspect of discrimination complaint
   processing.

   Performance Goal 6.3.3.1: Criteria and priorities are identified.

   Performance Goal 6.3.3.2: Priority projects are proposed for funding in
   ARS annual building and facility request.

   Performance Goal 6.3.4.1: Identify core capability requirements and
   develop a scientific staff to meet long-term research needs.

   Performance Goal 6.3.4.2: Train postdoctoral students through the ARS
   Research Associate Program and competitively select 10 percent each
   year to fill full-time positions.



   Appendix A

   Effectively Marshal the Diverse Capabilities and Resources of ARS.
   (Continued)

   Performance Goal 6.3.5.1: Customer participation in planning processes.

   Performance Goal 6.3.5.2: Strategic plan is developed and communicated
   to REE customers.

   Performance Goal 6.3.5.3: Formal feedback is solicited from REE
   customers.

   Performance Goal 6.3.6.1: Panel peer reviews are conducted on all
   research projects before implementation and subsequently every five
   years. The majority of the peer reviewers are external to ARS.

   Performance Goal 6.3.6.2: Review of the productivity, quality, and
   impact of individual scientists is conducted as scheduled in the
   Research Position Evaluation System (RPES).

   Performance Goal 6.3.7.1: Implement integrated management systems in
   USDA.

   Performance Goal 6.3.7.2: Correct in a timely manner internal control
   deficiencies.

   Performance Goal 6.3.7.3: Make available reliable cost accounting
   information.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.1: ARS will identify and generate a
   comprehensive directory of organizations that serve the under-served
   who are potential users of ARS research.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.2: ARS will convene a national outreach workshop
   that will bring together representatives of under-served populations.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.3: In FY 2001, each ARS Area will convene Area
   workshops to identify researchable issues of interest to under-served
   populations.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.4: In FY 2000 (using 1999 data), establish
   baseline data for extramural agreements, Memoranda of Understanding,
   and Letters of Agreement with organizations serving historically
   under-served populations.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.5: In FY 2001, ARS will increase its extramural
   agreements to organizations which serve under-served populations by no
   less than 20 percent over its established (FY 1999) baseline.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.6: In FY 2001, ARS will show an increase in the
   number of invitations extended to representatives of under-served
   populations to participate in program workshops, symposia,
   project/program reviews, and site/ location reviews.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.7: In FY 2001, ARS will show an increase in the
   number of research collaborations and technology transfer activities
   focused on meeting the special needs of this target population.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.8: In FY 2000, ARS will inform all senior
   managers and SYs of their roles and responsibilities under the outreach
   plan.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.9: In FY 2001, ARS will expand access to
   research information by the historically under-served organizations.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.10: ARS will expand outreach efforts to interest
   under-served students in agriculture/food science.

   Performance Goal 6.3.8.11: ARS will work with educational institutions
   and community-based organizations serving target populations to
   identify barriers and develop strategies to get information to
   under-served populations.



     __________________________________________________________________

   [1]     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     Next >>
   _______________________________________________________________________


   National Program Staff
   5601 Sunnyside Ave
   Beltsville, MD 20705-5134
                            Email the webmaster
                            Peter V. Lombardo


                            Site Updated Daily               Accessibility
                                               Nondiscrimination Statement
                                               System Usage Policy
                                               Endorsement Disclaimer
                                               USDA Privacy Policy

   nbrowser version: 1
   ip: 128.173.49.57
