http://www.interns.sfa.ed.gov/interns/apply.htm

   Student Financial Assistance - We help put America through school


   Student Financial Assistance
   About SFA
   Overview
   Intern FAQs
   How To Apply
   Fun
   Contact Us
   Student Internship Program
   Apply

   We will begin accepting applications for our summer internship program
   on January 1, 2002. The section below details the items to include in
   your application. The deadline for applying to our program is March
   15th. However, we strongly encourage you to submit your application as
   soon as possible.

   In mid-March, we will begin reviewing completed applications. Managers
   will contact qualified applicants for a phone interview. When final
   selections have been made, all applicants will be notified. We hope to
   complete all of our hiring by mid-April so that students accepted into
   our program will have plenty of time to make travel and housing
   arrangements.

   Since we are one of the few internship programs in Washington that pays
   all of our student interns, we tend to have a large application pool.

                           Application Procedures

   Please include all of the following items in your application package:

        A Resume
                Your resume must include the following:

               o Personal Information - Full name, social security number,
                 school address and permanent address (with zip code), and
                 phone number.
               o Education - Names, locations and dates of attendance for
                 each college or university attended. Include your major,
                 expected date of graduation, and degree in progress (or
                 earned previously if applicable).
               o Work Experience - For each entry include the following:
                 job title, employer's name and address, duties and
                 accomplishments, starting and ending dates (month and
                 year), hours per week, and salary.

        B Cover Letter
                150-200 words stating your interest in the work of Student
                Financial Assistance, your objectives and expectations of
                an SFA internship, and how these relate to your career
                goals.

        C Undergraduate/Graduate Transcript
                An official or unofficial copy of your transcript from the
                school you are currently enrolled in. Transcripts must
                include your name and social security number.

   Applications will not be considered unless all three required items are
   included.

   Due to the recent anthrax situation in Washington and its effects on
   our mail delivery, we strongly recommend that you submit your
   application early and use a mail delivery company such as Federal
   Express or UPS.

          Application packets must be postmarked by March 15, 2002

                          Send your application to:
                           SFA Internship Program
                    Office of the Chief Operating Officer
                               Office #11-3E2
                            830 First Street, NE
                        Student Financial Assistance
                          Washington, DC 20202-5132
                            [USEMAP:line_top.gif]

   Student Financial Assistance (SFA)
   U.S. Department Of Education (ED)
   Site Policies
