http://ccl.dss.cahwnet.gov/docs/newre.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   Community Care Licensing Website Updates



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Last Update - January 24, 2002

     * AB 1695 Memo: Please read the latest memo which transmits interim
       Title 22, Foster Family Home (FFH) standards and informs state and
       county licensing agencies of the provisions of Assembly Bill (AB)
       1695 (Statues of 2001, Chapter 653).
     * Administrator Certification Program: The process for becoming a
       certified training vendor is now on-line along with the guidelines
       and procedures manual.
     * Administrator Certification Training Vendors: The lists of Approved
       and No Longer Approved vendors have been updated for January.
     * Adult and Senior Care Update: December 2001 quarterly update for
       Adult and Senior Residential Care.
     * Alzheimer's Disease: For information about Alzheimer's Disease,
       click here.
     * California Care Network: The California Care Network portal is
       designed to help you find facilities and services for a loved one,
       a friend, or yourself.  It includes most state-licensed and
       certified facilities that serve the aging.  Click on the link above
       to access the California Care Network.
     * Child Care Advocacy: The Child Care Advocate Program (CCAP) has
       released an updated version of its Family Child Care
       self-assessment guide in English and Spanish. Also, new guides are
       available on safe food handling and preparation for Child Care
       Centers and Family Child Care Homes.
     * Child Care Update: December 2001 quarterly update for Child Care.
     * Children's Residential Care Update: December 2001 quarterly update
       for Children's Residential Care.
     * Comprehensive Visit Protocol: We have recently implemented the
       procedures for annual visits to selected Family Child Care Homes.
       The written procedures are part of the Comprehensive Visit
       Protocol.
     * County Licensing Agencies: Contact locations for California
       Counties performing Foster and Child care licensing.  Includes
       links to related county websites.
     * Criminal Record Exemption Process: Please click on the link below
       for information about the Caregiver Background Check Bureau
       Exemption Process for community care facilities and employees.
     * Employment: We have added links to the State Personnel Board and
       the Department of Social Services Employment pages.  You can access
       those links from our Job Opportunities page.
     * Employment Agency Guidelines: Guidelines for community care
       facility licensees using employment agencies are here.
     * Family Child Care at its Best: Click here for information about
       this other child care training project workshops or find our
       current class schedule and locations updated through June 2002.
     * Flex Your Power: A pocket guide to manage your energy needs.
     * Foster Family Home Regulation Guide: This guide is designed to
       assist foster parents to comply with regulations and perform
       periodic self-inspections of their home.  This guide is also
       available in Spanish.
     * Group Home Emergency Intervention: A new group home self-assessment
       guide has been added. Check here for details.
     * Innovations in Child Care: The Child Care Advocate Program has
       published a new pamphlet. It can be viewed or downloaded from the
       Child Care Advocate Page.
     * Letters to Providers: Changes have been made to the laws covering
       background checks.  Check here for details.
     * Live Scan: The process and form for Live Scan processing has been
       changed.  Here is the latest information.
     * Report to the Legislature: Now available in PDF format is the
       recent Report to the Legislature on Investigation of Complaints
       Against Certified Family Homes & Foster Family Agencies.
     * Search for a Facility: The ability to search for a licensed
       facility has been added to the site.
     * Security Issues in Child Care: A new child care self assessment
       guide has been added. It is entitled How to Make Your Child Care
       Center a Safer Place for Children.
     * What is SIDS? Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden and
       unexplained death of an infant under one year of age. Please click
       here for the SIDS brochure (Spanish version).

                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
