http://www.lpsi.barc.usda.gov/pbel/index.asp

   USDA Logo and link to USDA homepage Parasite Biology, Epidemiology and
                                       Systems Laboratory Logo (PBESL) logo

   Home button
   Mission Statement button
   Staff button
   Research Projects button
   Comments button
   Links button
   ARS logo and link to ARS homepage
   Agricultural Research Service
   U.S. Department of Agriculture

   If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see the navigation
   buttons change color when you roll the mouse over them

Welcome

   The mission of the Parasite Biology, Epidemiology, and Systematics
   Laboratory is to reduce the economic cost of parasitism in livestock
   and poultry and to reduce the risk of transmission of parasite zoonoses
   to humans. Emphasis is placed on developing integrated control programs
   for important parasitic diseases. Research includes basic and applied
   studies on:
     * Mechanisms of parasite transmission, the infection process,
       parasite development and host-parasite interactions
     * The development of novel methods for parasite control, such as
       parasite vaccines and non-chemical anti-parasitics
     * The diagnosis and control of livestock parasites transmissible to
       humans.

   PBESL is part of the Animal and Natural Resources Institute at the
   Beltsville Agricultural Research Center.

PBESL Research Links...


   Picture of parasite-infected tissue above Parasites & Diseases section
   Parasites & Diseases
   [Select a link________]If your browser had javascript enabled, you
   would see a selectable navigation menu for the Parasites and Diseases
   research section.
   Picture for PBESL highlights
   PBESL Highlights Picture and link to U.S. National Parasite Collection
   U.S. National Parasite Collection

                    Dr. Mark C. Jenkins, Research Leader

       Building 1040, Room 103 Beltsville Agricultural Research Center
                   United States Department of Agriculture
                        Agricultural Research Service
                           10300 Baltimore Avenue
                       Beltsville, Maryland 20705-2350

                             Tel: (301) 504-8300
                             Fax: (301) 504-5306

                 This site was last updated January 12, 2002
            If you experience technical problems with this site,
                     please send an email to: R. Palmer
                                 THANK YOU!
