http://www.ferc.gov/online/cips_cookies.htm

                               USE OF COOKIES

       How Cookies are Used | What are Cookies? | How to Avoid Cookies

  HOW ARE COOKIES USED ON CIPS?

   The Commission's website uses persistent cookies on the Commission
   Issuance Posting System (CIPS) to provide the customer the ability to
   save his/her search parameters for use during another visit. The use of
   the persistent cookie in CIPS avoids the necessity of having the
   customer re-enter search parameters every time he/she visits our site.

   The cookie is used for no other purpose.  The information captured is
   computer specific rather than user specific, so that use of a cookie
   does not require the Commission to capture any information about the
   specific user.

  WHAT IS A COOKIE?

   Cookies are text files placed on the customer's computer hard drive by
   the server (a type of computer). A cookie is a short piece of data. The
   cookie is not an executable program and cannot do anything to your
   machine.

   There are two kinds of cookies.
     * A session cookie is in operation only for the duration of the
       browser session - when the user shuts down the browser the cookie
       is released and goes away.
     * A persistent cookie continues in operation after the close of the
       individual session. Shutting down the browser will cause the cookie
       to be written into a special cookie file on the user's computer, so
       that the next time the user visits the website that generated the
       cookie, the cookie will be sent to the website's server again.  In
       this way, we can coordinate your access to different pages on our
       web site.

  HOW DO I AVOID COOKIES?

   You can prevent any cookies from being sent to your system in one of
   two ways.  First, you can simply not use the features in CIPS that
   allow you to save your search parameters.  Secondly, you can disable
   cookies through your browser. To adjust your browser settings to
   disable cookies, open the help file in your browser and search on the
   word cookies.
