http://www.nceb.uscourts.gov/ebn.htm

   EDNC Bankruptcy Seal

                                           UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                                         EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA

                                                     MEMORANDUM

   TO:      Bankruptcy Practitioners in the Eastern District of North Carolina
   SUBJECT: Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing Now Available
   DATE:    April 14, 2000

   The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of North
   Carolina, is now offering a new way for you to receive bankruptcy
   notices from the court. You may now choose to receive overnight
   bankruptcy notices via Internet e-mail or transmitted as a fax to your
   office. Electronic noticing will provide notices days faster than the
   U.S. Mail.

   Should you elect the Internet e-mail alternative, your e-mail provider
   must provide a Delivery Service Notification (DSN) receipt to confirm
   that the notice was properly delivered to your e-mail account. The
   notice will be attached to the message as a file in Adobe’s Portable
   Document Format (PDF). A free PDF reader plug-in is available from
   Adobe’s web site

   www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html

   or from the web sites of the Bankruptcy Noticing Center or the United
   States Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of North Carolina.

   Please visit the Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing web page at
   www.ebnuscourts.com for detailed information about this new free
   electronic noticing service including a list of known DSN compliant
   e-mail providers, the Electronic Noticing Implementation Guide and
   Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing Questions and Answers.

   Your participation in the free electronic bankruptcy noticing program
   is encouraged, since we believe it will offer many benefits to you and
   the court. If you choose not to participate, you will continue to
   receive printed bankruptcy notices in the mail, just as you do now.

   For complete electronic noticing information, visit the electronic
   noticing web page at

   www.ebnuscourts.com

   or call the Bankruptcy Noticing Center toll-free at 1-877-837-3424 for
   free technical support.
