http://www6.etl.noaa.gov/projects/mwisp.html

   MWISP

   Contact: Roger F. Reinking

   [mtwash.gif]

   Aircraft icing continues to plague commuter, military, and general
   aviation by causing fatal crashes, particularly in wintertime. Improved
   methods to forecast, detect, and avoid icing conditions are actively
   sought by the FAA, NASA, and other groups to improve flight safety. The
   Mount Washington Icing Sensors Project (MWISP) was a multi-agency
   experiment designed to assess some emerging icing detection
   technologies. It emphasized testing remote sensing methods for
   detecting, measuring, and mapping regions of supercooled liquid water
   in clouds and it assessed the amount of development needed to convert
   these research techniques into operationally useful tools. The MWISP
   field project, centered at the Mount Washington Observatory (photo
   inset) in New Hampshire, in April 1999 included radars, radiometers,
   lidars, and in-situ cloud sampling instruments at the base of the
   mountain, at the Observatory, and onboard research aircraft. In
   collaboration with other participants, NOAA/ETL operated two Doppler
   radars and a tri-channel microwave radiometer at the base of the
   mountain and a multi-channel polarized scanning radiometer at the
   Observatory on the 6,288-foot summit. Depolarization measurements from
   the NOAA/K Ka-band radar provided information about hydrometeor types
   (crystals, droplets, etc.) in the mountain clouds. Microwave
   radiometers provided additional information about cloud composition
   along their beams.

   These NOAA/K polarization measurements have demonstrated that, if the
   proper polarization basis is used, polarization data from a sensitive
   cloud radar can be used to provide a signature uniquely related to
   particle type. The following figure, a plot of depolarization ratio vs.
   elevation angle obtained during MWISP, shows how various ice particles
   can be identified from polarization measurments alone.
