http://www.shuttle.nasa.gov/spacenews/reports/issreports/2002/iss02-05.html

                                [issstat.gif]

               INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION STATUS REPORT #02-5
                      4 p.m. CST, Friday, Jan. 25, 2002
                            Expedition Four Crew

   Expedition Four Commander Yury Onufrienko and Astronaut Dan Bursch
   completed a five-hour, 59-minute spacewalk outside the International
   Space Station today, installing six thruster deflectors at the rear of
   the Zvezda Service Module, retrieving and replacing a device to measure
   material from the thrusters and installing a ham radio antenna and its
   cabling. They also installed three materials experiments on Zvezdas
   exterior and a physics experiment.

   With Onufrienko and Bursch working outside, Astronaut Carl Walz served
   as intravehicular crewmember, helping to coordinate the spacewalk and
   maneuvering the stations robotic arm, Canadarm2, to allow its
   television cameras to view the spacewalk. This was the 33rd spacewalk
   for station assembly and outfitting and the eighth conducted from the
   station itself. Onufrienko and Bursch, wearing Russian Orlan
   spacesuits, installed six plume deflectors around attitude control
   thrusters at the rear of the Zvezda module. The deflectors are designed
   to limit deposits on the outside of the station that result from the
   firing of those thrusters.

   The spacewalkers also removed an experiment called Kromka situated near
   one of the thruster groups. The experiment captured material that
   results from thruster firings. It will be returned to Earth in early
   May aboard a Soyuz spacecraft. By studying the captured materials,
   engineers will gain a better understanding of the nature of the
   deposits. Onufrienko and Bursch installed a virtually identical new
   Kromka experiment in the same place. Future analysis of the materials
   it captures will provide information on the effect of the plume
   deflectors. They also installed a ham radio antenna and associated
   cabling at the rear of Zvezda. The antenna is the second of four that
   eventually will be situated around the back of the module. Onufrienko
   and Walz had installed the first antenna during a Jan. 14 spacewalk.

   Onufrienko and Bursch also attached a physics experiment called Platan
   to Zvezda. Platan is designed to capture low-energy heavy nuclei from
   the sun and from outside the solar system. In addition, they installed
   three materials experiments, called SKK for their Russian acronym, on
   Zvezda. The experiments examine effects of the harsh environment of
   space on a wide range of materials. The spacewalkers also installed
   fairleads on Zvezda handrails. The fairleads, called pigtails, keep
   spacewalkers tethers from fouling equipment or experiments on the
   modules exterior. Throughout the spacewalk, they took photos to
   document their work.

   Information on the crew's activities aboard the space station, future
   launch dates and times, as well as station sighting opportunities from
   anywhere on the Earth, is available on the internet at:
   http://spaceflight.nasa.gov. Details on station science operations can
   be found on an internet site administered by the Payload Operations
   Center at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., at:
   http://www.scipoc.msfc.nasa.gov. The next ISS status report will be
   issued Feb. 1.

   -END-

   NASA Johnson Space Center Shuttle Mission/Space Station Status Reports
   and other information are available automatically by sending an
   Internet electronic mail message to majordomo@listserver.jsc.nasa.gov.
   In the body of the message (not the subject line) users should type
   "subscribe hsfnews" (no quotes). This will add the email address that
   sent the subscribe message to the news release distribution list. The
   system will reply with a confirmation via E-mail of each subscription.
   Once you have subscribed you will receive future news releases via
   e-mail.
