http://ohrm.cc.nih.gov/benefits/longtermcare/ltcnotice.htm

                        Preliminay Notice for Employees

  What New Benefit Can I Apply for in 2002?

   The Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program will be available in 2002.
   It's a program to provide insurance to help you pay for chronic, long
   term care (such as help getting out of bed or help eating or dressing)
   that you may develop due to an illness, accident, or the normal aging
   process. You may be healthy now, but who knows what will happen next
   year, in five years or even in 20 years or beyond. About half of us
   will need long term care at some point in our lives. And you cant count
   on Medicare and FEHB to provide it.

  Who is Sponsoring This New Program?

   The U.S. Office of Personnel Management sponsors the program,
   established by Public Law 106-265, the Long-Term Care Security Act.

  What Companies Are Providing the Insurance?

   OPM just announced that two of the nations premier insurance companies
   joined ranks and won the competition to provide coverage under this
   Program Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and John Hancock Life
   Insurance Company. They formed a partnership named Long Term Care
   Partners.

  Will I be Guaranteed Coverage?

   All employees who apply for the insurance will not be eligible for the
   standard insurance. However, all employees who apply will be offered
   something, perhaps non-standard insurance (different benefits and/or
   higher premiums) or a non-insurance product. It is not like the FEHB
   program where everyone eligible who applies for a given policy gets the
   same coverage and pays the same premium.

  Do I Need to Do Anything Now?

   No, you dont.  OPM and Long Term Care Partners will be providing an
   extensive educational and marketing program to introduce you to this
   new program and help you make informed decisions about whether to
   purchase a policy and what type of coverage you may need. You dont need
   to worry if you currently know little or nothing about long term care
   insurance or the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program. There will
   be satellite broadcasts, videotapes, meetings in agency cafeterias and
   auditoriums across the country, informative booklets and brochures,
   interactive websites, etc. All that will take place in 2002, with an
   open season to apply for the program in the late summer/early fall of
   2002.

  I Already Know About This Insurance.  Can I Apply Now?

   Individuals who dont need the educational program can apply for the
   insurance during an  early enrollment opportunity, probably in March
   2002.

  I Have a Lot More Questions About this New Program.  Who Can Answer Them?

   You can visit the Office of Personnel Management website at
   www.opm.gov/insure/ltc. It  contains extensive frequently asked
   questions and the proposed product design (benefits). Premiums arent
   available yet.
