http://pds.jpl.nasa.gov/about-pds.html

   PDS Logo Planetary Data System
   Home Scientists Public Data Producers Educators Relateed Sites Help

   About PDS

   PDS OVERVIEW

      The NASA Planetary Data System is an active archive that provides high
      quality, usable planetary science data products to the science
      community. This system evolved in response to scientists' requests for
      improved availability of planetary data from NASA missions, with
      increased scientific involvement and oversight. It is sponsored by the
      NASA Office of Space Science, and includes seven university/research
      center science teams, called discipline nodes, as well as a central
      node at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. PDS today is a leader in archive
      technology, providing a basic resource for scientists and educators.

   PDS GOAL

      The goal of PDS is to enable science by providing high quality, usable
      planetary data products to the science community. We are committed to
      curating and providing science expertise for quality products, not just
      warehousing items. We distribute data to a wide audience while ensuring
      that the media and the system itself are long-lived, operating beyond
      the existence of any one planetary project.

   PDS OBJECTIVES

      PDS meets the NASA requirement to archive in a cost effective approach.
      Within PDS, there are four major objectives: 1) publication of
      peer-reviewed data sets, 2) leveraging with flight projects, 3)
      leadership in archive standards, and 4) providing expert scientific
      help to researchers.

      The first objective is to "publish" quality, well-engineered data sets.
      While the media of the published data varies, all PDS-produced products
      have been peer reviewed by a group of scientists to ensure that the
      data and the related descriptions are appropriate and usable. PDS
      provides easy access to these data products by a system of on-line
      catalogs organized by planetary disciplines.

      While PDS does not itself fund the production of archive data from
      active missions, we work closely with projects to help them design
      their data products. The great advantages of having projects deliver
      well-documented products are that the investigator expertise is
      available and those data can be then be used immediately by the general
      science community.

      The third PDS objective is to maintain the archive data standards to
      ensure future usability. Over the years of PDS experience, a set of
      standards have been evolved for describing and storing data so that
      future scientists unfamiliar with the original experiment can analyze
      the data using a variety of computer platforms with no additional
      support beyond the product. These standards [PDS Standards Reference,
      and Planetary Science Data Dictionary] address structure of the data,
      description contents, media design, and a standard set of terms.

      The final PDS objective is to provide expert scientific help to the
      user community. PDS is an active archive, rather than a storehouse,
      which is staffed by scientists and engineers familiar with the data.
      While most of the archive products may be accessed or ordered
      automatically by users, PDS provides teams of scientists to work with
      users to select and understand data. Special processing can be done to
      generate user-specific products. In addition, these same scientists
      form a network into the science community to hear requests and advice
      for PDS.

   NODE STRUCTURE

      The Planetary Data System is a distributed system sponsored by the NASA
      Office of Space Science and composed of eight teams, called nodes. The
      node structure is organized primarily by subdisciplines within
      planetary science to focus expertise with archive data. Three nodes
      provide support or special capabilities to the science nodes. Many
      teams are consortiums of multiple universities. Specific node leads and
      members are determined through a NASA Research Announcement done every
      five years. The second NRA proposal selection was completed in October
      1995. The science nodes include Atmospheres, Geosciences, Planetary
      Plasma Interactions, Rings, and Small Bodies Nodes. They each have an
      advisory group of discipline scientists to provide guidance and
      priorities for PDS. The support nodes are the Imaging Node, with
      expertise in sophisticated image processing, the JPL Navigation
      Ancillary Information (NAIF) Node, for calibration and ephemeris
      information, and the Central Node, leading the project, at the Jet
      Propulsion Laboratory.

      For more information regarding the node structure please see About The
      Nodes.

   PDS INNOVATIONS

      PDS innovations give benefits to the science community in multiple
      ways. PDS-provided products from missions are accessible quickly since
      they are peer reviewed and well-documented before release. PDS
      standards save NASA and scientists future costs by enabling the sharing
      of data and predictable access to information for years. PDS technology
      has lowered the cost and risk for large archives in its use of CD media
      and tools. Finally, PDS itself stands as a role model for newer archive
      systems in the way that we are organized and the lessons that we can
      share.

      Web Page Curator: John Ho, JPL
      Responsible NASA Official: Elaine Dobinson, PDS Project Manager, JPL


       Last Update: 04/09/01

                                [3dot_line.gif]

   Home  |  Scientists  |  Public  |  Data Producers  |  Educators  |
   Related Sites  |  Help

   NODES Atmospheres Geosciences Imaging NAIF PPI Rings Small Bodies
