http://www.wi.nrcs.usda.gov/demo/jobs.htm

   Farm Scene

   Jobs with NRCS New York
   LEARN MORE ABOUT APPLYING TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER

   FIND NRCS JOBS

   Soil Conservationists

   NRCS soil conservationists spend most of their time in the field
   working with farmers, and other land users.  They offer conservation
   planning and technical help to everyone from family farmers to local
   government officials.  They suggest ways to conserve the soil, improve
   water quality, manage nutrients, and protect and improve wildlife
   habitat. Sample position description.

   Qualifications:  A degree in a soil conservation, or a related
   discipline such as natural resources, agriculture, agronomy, soil,
   plant or crop science.  Coursework must have included 30 semester hours
   in agriculture or the natural sciences.  Additionally, you must have at
   least 12 semester hours in soil, crop or plant science.  Of those 12
   hours, at least 3 must have been in soil science.  More info.

   Soil Conservation Technicians

   Soil conservation technicians (SCT) work on the land with farmers to
   show them how to install conservation practices and oversee the quality
   of those practices.  SCTs perform engineering surveys and design
   standard conservation practices such as waterways, terraces, and
   agricultural waste management systems.

   Qualifications:  Knowledge of farm operations.  Coursework or
   experience that involved designing and implementing conservation
   practices.

   Other Careers

   NRCS also offers careers for people trained in computer and
   administrative fields.
   Soil Scientists

   Soil scientists map and classify soils.  They identify problems such as
   wetness and erosion.  They use aerial photographs to map soils and
   write soil descriptions.  They sample soils and evaluate quality,
   analyze watershed information and record changes in land use
   patterns.   Sample position description.

   Qualifications:  A degree in a soil science or a closely related
   discipline.  Coursework must have included 30 semester hours in
   biological, physical, or earth science.  Additionally, you must have at
   least 15 semester hours in courses such as soil genesis, pedology, soil
   chemistry, soil physics or soil fertility.   More info.

   Engineers

   NRCS engineers develop and utilize specialized skills in erosion
   control, water management, structural design, construction, hydraulics,
   soil mechanics, and environmental protection.  They develop and
   implement stream bank and erosion control measures and water supply
   systems.  They design waste management systems and concrete and earthen
   dams.  NRCS typically employs agricultural, civil, or environmental
   engineers.

   Qualifications:  At bachelor's degree in agricultural, civil, or
   environmental engineering.

   Civil Engineering Technician

   Civil engineering technicians (CET) plan, design structures used in
   conservation practices.  They survey the land and lay out the
   construction measures.  CETs gather data, make computations,  prepare
   maps and cross sections of profiles serve as on site inspector during
   construction.

   Qualifications:  Coursework or experience in the engineering field.
   More info.
   Check out our New Employee Guide

                  Homepage Links: | NRCS | USDA | HR |OPM |
