http://www.corp.ca.gov/aboutus.htm


   Welcome to California California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
               skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



    Corporations Home
    About the Department
    Meet the Commissioner
    Historical Background
    Press Room
    Executive Office
    Office of Public Affairs
    Office of Management & Budget
    Office of Law & Legislation
    Securities Regulation Division
    Financial Services Division
    Enforcement & Legal Services Division
    California Industrial Development Financing Authority Commission
    Contact Us!


    Contact the Webmaster if you have questions or comments concerning this
    site.



   California Department of Corporations

                California's Investment & Financing Authority




           __________ search
      ( )  My CA (*)  Corp's Website

   About Us!

               About the California Department of Corporations
          The California Department of Corporations by the Numbers
          The Mission of the California Department of Corporations

   About the California Department of Corporations

   The Department of Corporations is California's Investment and Financing
   Authority, and has exclusive authority to bring both civil and
   administrative actions under the laws subject to the jurisdiction of
   the California Corporations Commissioner.

   We license and regulate a variety of businesses that affect the lives
   of Californians and represent a significant part of the state's
   economy, including securities brokers and dealers, investment advisers
   and financial planners, and certain fiduciaries and lenders. We also
   regulate the offer and sales of securities, franchises and off-exchange
   commodities.

   The Department reports to the Business, Transportation and Housing
   Agency and the Governor. We are the last line of defense for many of
   the most significant financial transactions that Californians make,
   from mortgages to retirement plans.

   The California Department of Corporations by the Numbers

   Under Governor Davis, the Department has compelled finance lenders and
   mortgage bankers to make nearly $3.5 million in refunds to consumers.

   The Department exercises authority over 1,850 finance lenders with
   assets in excess of $1.33 trillion that made loans of $106 billion in
   1999. The Department also regulates the mortgage banking market that
   made and serviced over $660 billion in consumer loans - $55 billion
   that assisted Californians in the purchase of a home.

   Under Governor Davis, the Department has brought more than 1,200
   enforcement actions against people or companies perpetrating frauds,
   making misrepresentations, and pursuing predatory practices.

   The Department regulates nearly 250,000 entities, including:

     * 3,500 broker-dealers,
     * 208,000 agents or registered representatives,
     * 2,200 investment advisers,
     * 26,000 investment adviser representatives or associated persons,
     * 480 independent escrow agents,
     * 1,850 consumer and commercial finance lenders, and
     * 210 residential mortgage lenders or mortgage bankers.

   The Mission of the California Department of Corporations

   The California Department of Corporations has a three-part mission:

    1. To rigorously enforce the laws of the state, ensuring that all of
       California's financial services consumers enter the marketplace
       with confidence,
    2. To open the door to financial security for all Californians by
       educating vulnerable populations about the risks and rewards of
       investing, and
    3. To provide businesses with a financial services marketplace that is
       transparent, cost-effective and efficient.

    • Securities • Franchises • Off-Exchange Commodities • Investment and
    Financial Services •
    • Independent Escrows • Consumer and Commercial Finance Lending •
    Residential Mortgage Lending •
    Back to Top of Page
    2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
    Privacy Policy  Disclaimer
