http://university.gsfc.nasa.gov/RRA/index.html

National Research Council (NRC) Resident Research Associateship (RRA) Program

   Web Address:
   http://www4.nas.edu/osep/rap.nsf/frmLabInfoSearchResults?ReadForm&44.30
   ~GSFC

   Point of Contact: Mablelene Burrell (301) 286-1122

   Eligibility: Ph.D., Sc.D., or other earned doctoral research degree.
   U.S. citizens, U.S. permanent residents, or citizens of any "friendly"
   country.

   Description: Provides recent doctoral scientists and engineers of
   unusual promise and ability, or senior scientists and engineers, with
   temporary full-time residence at GSFC to perform independent research
   in collaboration with GSFC scientists or engineers to contribute to the
   overall efforts of GSFC. The Program provides an opportunity for
   concentrated research in association with selected members of the
   permanent professional laboratory staff, often as a climax to formal
   career preparation. For established scientists and engineers, the
   Program affords an opportunity for research without the interruptions
   and distracting assignment of permanent career positions. Administered
   for NASA by the National Research Council of the National Academy of
   Sciences.

   Duration: Typically 2 years.

   Dates: Year-round entry and exit at any time.

   Application & Deadlines: Jan. 15, Apr. 15, Aug. 15 - Research proposals
   and supporting documents must be postmarked by these dates.

   Award: Recent doctoral scientists - $45,000 stipend; Senior scientists
   - appropriately higher award.

   Other: Associates must devote their full-time effort to the research
   programs proposed in their applications. Associates must be in
   residence during the entire period of the Associateship. No additional
   monetary aid or other remuneration may be accepted from another
   appointment, fellowship, or similar grant, except for sabbatical leave.

   Other Point of Contact: Dr. Robert Manka
   National Research Council
   2101 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, DC 20418
   (202) 334-2785

   Forms (Microsoft Word Format):
NRC Evaluation of Associate by Research Adviser     NRC Lab/Center
                                                    Review
NRC Extension/Renewal Acceptance                    NRC Starting Date Form
NRC Progress Report Form                            NRC Application Renewal Form
NRC Award Acceptance/Declination Form
