http://www.technology-taskforce.gov/default.asp?whichfile=faqs.htm

   FRAME: header
   FRAME: main

   President's Task Force on Federal Training Technology seal
       President's Task Force on Federal Training Technology logo
   Click here to remove frames.
   [pixel-blue.gif]

                                  About us
                               Press releases
                              Related materials
                         Frequently asked questions
                                    Links
                                  Members only

                                    Executive Order 13111

       Using Technology to Improve Training Opportunities for Federal
                            Government Employees


   What is the focus of Executive Order 13111?

   Executive Order 13111, signed by the President on January 12, 1999
   codifies a coordinated Federal effort to employ technology to provide
   more flexible, accessible and cost effective training opportunities to
   Federal employees. It also establishes a review process for exploring
   how Federal training programs, initiatives, and policies can better
   support lifelong learning for all Americans through the use of learning
   technology.


   How will the Executive Order be Implemented?

   The Executive order creates the President=s Federal Training Technology
   Task Force (FTT), the Advisory Committee on Expanding Training
   Opportunity (CETO), and prescribes specific steps to be taken by
   Federal agencies to enhance employees= training opportunities through
   the use of training technology.


   What are the responsibilities of the President's Federal Training
   Technology Task Force (FTT)?

   The FTT Task Force is responsible for developing a policy to make
   effective use of technology to improve training opportunities for
   Federal Government employees and for developing options and
   recommendations for establishing a Federal Individual Training Account
   for Federal workers.

   Who serves on the FTT?

   The Director of OPM serves as the Chair of the FTT and the Assistant
   Secretary for Administration and Management for the U.S. Department of
   Labor serves as the Vice Chair. The membership consists of the heads of
   the following departments and agencies or their representatives:

   STATE

   TREASURY

   DEFENSE

   JUSTICE

   INTERIOR

   AGRICULTURE

   COMMERCE

   LABOR

   HHS

   HUD

   DOT

   ENERGY

   EDUCATION

   OPM

   GSA

   EPA

   NASA

   SBA

   SSA

   CIA

   FEMA

   NSF

   OMB

   VA

   NPR

   HRD COUNCIL

   CIO COUNCIL

   CFO COUNCIL

                             SMALL AGENCY COUNCIL


   What are the deliverables and time frames for the FTT?
     * By July, 2000, the Task Force shall develop and recommend to the
       President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic
       Policy and the Assistant to the President for Science and
       Technology, a policy to make effective use of technology to improve
       training opportunities for Federal Government employees; and
     * By July, 1999, the Task Force will develop options and
       recommendations for establishing a Federal Individual Training
       Account for each Federal worker for training relevant to his or her
       Federal employment.


   Who serves on the Advisory Committee on Expanding Training
   Opportunities (CETO)?

   The Advisory Committee will consist of not more than 20 members
   appointed by the President from outside the Federal Government,
   including representatives of the research, education, labor, and
   training communities, information technology sector, and
   representatives from other critical sectors. The President shall
   designate Co-Chairs from among the members of the Committee.


   What are the deliverables and time frames for the CETO?

   By January 2001, the Committee will provide the President, through the
   Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the
   President for Science and Technology with an assessment of:
     * progress made by the Federal Government in its use and integration
       of technology in training programs;
     * how Federal Government programs, initiatives, and policies can
       drive training technology to provide more effective training
       opportunities for all Americans;
     * mechanisms for the Federal Government to encourage private sector
       investment in the development and utilization of high-quality
       instructional software;
     * the appropriate Federal Government role in research and development
       for learning technologies and their applications; and
     * options for helping adult Americans finance the training and
       post-secondary education needed to upgrade skills and gain new
       knowledge.

   Where can additional information on the FTT and CETO be obtained?

   Office of the Executive Director of the FTT: (202) 606-1548

   Office of Personnel Management Web Site: http.www.opm.gov
   Technology Task Force Web Site: http://www.technology-taskforce.gov
