http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/orders/


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag
    Home > News & Policies

   Executive Orders Issued by President Bush

   Date    Executive Order
   Jan. 17 Amendment to Executive Order 13223
   Jan. 7  Exclusions from the Federal Labor-Management Relations Program
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession in the Department of Veterans
           Affairs
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of State
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of Labor
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of Housing and
           Urban Development
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of Health and
           Human Services
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of Interior
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at the Department of Commerce
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession at Department of Agriculture
   Dec. 28 Executive Order: Adjustments of Certain Rates of Pay
   Dec. 28 Executive Order on Succession in Department of Treasury
   Dec. 28 Executive Orders on Succession in Federal Agencies
   Dec. 21 Council of Europe in Respect of the Group of States Against
           Corruption
   Dec. 20 Executive Order Establishing An Emergency Board
   Dec. 14 Afghanistan Combat Zone Executive Order
   Dec. 6  Executive Order for Federal Government Closure on Dec 24
   Nov. 28 Executive Order: Creation of the President's Council on
           Bioethics
   Nov. 27 Executive Order Waiver of Dual Compensation Provisions of the
           Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964
   Nov. 16 National Emergency Construction Authority Executive Order
   Nov. 13 President Issues Military Order
   Nov. 9  Citizen Preparedness in War on Terrorism Executive Order
   Oct. 22 Executive Order for Dept of Health and Human Services
   Oct. 16 Executive Order on Critical Infrastructure Protection
   Oct. 12 Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans Commission
           Executive Report
   Oct. 8  Executive Order Establishing Office of Homeland Security
   Oct. 3  Executive Order on Excellence in Special Education
   Oct. 1  President Signs Federal Advisory Committee Executive Order
   Oct. 1  President Signs PCAST Executive Order
   Sep. 24 Executive Order on Terrorist Financing
   Sep. 14 President Orders Ready Reserves of Armed Forces to Active Duty
   Aug. 17 Executive Order on Export Control Regulations
   Jul. 31 Energy Efficient Standby Power Devices
   Jul. 2  Executive Order
   Jun. 20 President Bush Issues Executive Order Regarding 21st Century
           Workforce Initiative
   Jun. 19 President Bush Issues Executive Order Regarding Community-Based
           Alternatives for Individuals with Disabilities
   Jun. 6  Executive Order: Amendment To Executive Order 13125
   Jun. 1  Executive Order
   May 28  President's Task Force to Improve Health Care Delivery for Our
           Nation's Veterans
   May 23  Executive Order: Additional Measures with Respect to Prohibiting
           the Importation of Rough Diamonds from Sierra Leone
   May 18  Executive Order: Actions Concerning Regulations That
           Significantly Affect Energy Supply, Distribution, or Use
   May 18  Executive Order: Actions to Expedite Energy-Related Projects
   May 2   Executive Order: President's Commission to Strengthen Social
           Security
   Apr. 30 Executive Order: Establishment of the President's Task Force on
           Puerto Rico's Status
   Apr. 6  Executive Order: Amendment to Executive Order 13202
   Apr. 5  Executive Order: Further Amendment to Executive Order 10000
   Apr. 4  Executive Order: Termination of Emergency Authority For Certain
           Export Controls
   Mar. 9  Executive Order: Establishing an Emergency Board
   Feb. 21 Executive Order on Preservation of Open Competition and
           Government Neutrality Towards Government Contractors' Labor Relations
           on Federal and Federally Funded Construction Projects
   Feb. 21 Executive Order on Notification of Employee Rights Concerning
           Payment of Union Dues or Fees
   Feb. 21 Executive Order: Revocation of Executive Order on
           Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers under Certain Contracts
   Feb. 21 Executive Order and Presidential Memorandum Concerning
           Labor-Management Partnerships
   Feb. 12 Executive Order on the President's Information Technology
           Advisory Committee
   Jan. 29 Agency Responsibilities with Respect to Faith-Based and
           Community Initiatives
   Jan. 29 Executive Order: Establishment of White House Office of
           Faith-Based and Community Initiatives

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
