http://lunar.arc.nasa.gov/resources/news.htm

   The javascript on this page is used to preload the images for links and
   to swap the images used for links.

   go to content
   layout image go to introduction
   go to news go to mailing list go to glossary go to site map go to tools
   go to credits and contacts layout image
   Layout image Go to home
   go to project go to results Go to datavis go to history Go to science
   Go to education Go to archives go to resources

                                    NEWS

                        The Lunar Prospector Mission
                                 A Success!

   The NASA/Ames Research Center in Mountain View, CA invites you and the
   world to look at the events surrounding the first NASA Moon mission in
                                  25 years!

                       "Lunar Prospector has given us
                    new eyes to look at the solar system"

   Results from First Six Months.
   For details see Results

   After a year and a half of ground breaking science, Lunar Prospector
   took a bold step towards furthering its science legacy by intentionally
   impacting a targeted south polar crater of the Moon.
   For details see Lunar Prospector Impact Page

   The Case of the Missing Moon Water: Lunar Prospector failed to kick up
   a visible dust cloud when it crashed into the Moon, but that doesn't
   mean it failed to strike water. Astronomers are still sifting through
   their data for elusive signatures of a tenuous water vapor cloud that
   may have resulted from the crash. FULL STORY at
   NASA Space Science News for September 3, 1999


             No Water Ice Detected from Lunar Prospector Impact

   photo of the moon The controlled crash of NASA's Lunar Prospector
   spacecraft into a crater on the Moon on July 31 produced no observable
   signature of water. Scientists digging through data from Earth-based
   observatories and spacecraft such as the Hubble Space Telescope made
   this announcement today. NASA worked with engineers and astronomers at
   the University of Texas to precisely crash the barrel-shaped spacecraft
   into a specific shadowed crater as a low-budget attempt to wring one
   last bit of scientific productivity from the low-cost Lunar Prospector
   mission. The question of whether there is hidden ice on the Moon,
   delivered by impacting comets, is still open. (Full Story)
   (10/13/99)
   See also write up at University of Texas


                              Space Law Issues

   Now that there is more interest in the Moon we will have to be looking
   at the legalities of our space efforts. Take a look at COPUOS . The
   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was set up by the General
   Assembly in 1959 (resolution 1472 (XIV)) to review the scope of
   international cooperation in peaceful uses of outer space, to devise
   programmes in this field to be undertaken under United Nations
   auspices, to encourage continued research and the dissemination of
   information on outer space matters, and to study legal problems arising
   from the exploration of outer space.

   See also Space Law
   And here Lunar Ice

                    What does it take to get to the Moon?

   The following files require Acrobat Reader to view. Get Acrobat Reader.

   See LUNAR PROSPECTOR MISSION DESIGN AND TRAJECTORY SUPPORT.
   AAS98-323.pdf (387kb PDF file)
   The complete Status Report archive in an Adobe Acrobat Reader PDF file.
   LPStatus.pdf (255 kb PDF file)

   LUNAR PROSPECTOR End of Mission & Overview Press Kit
   ( 550 kb PDF file)


                          Other Issues of Interest

          Lunar Data Support Idea That Collision Split Earth, Moon

                       Hot Tips! and Publication Links

                           Mission Status Reports


                                       MENU
       Home | Project | Results | Datavis | History | Science | Education |
                               Archives | Resources

                                      SUBMENU
        Introduction | News | Mailing List | Glossary | Site Map | Tools |
                               Credits and Contacts


        Contact Information
   Last Updated: August 31, 2001
