http://ethics.od.nih.gov/lawreg/hhs-std.htm

                          HHS Standards of Conduct

   These Standards were published in a booklet entitled "Standards of
   Conduct" on March 30, 1989 (45 CFR Part 73).  Subsequently, HHS
   published the Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees
   of DHHS which covers ethics rules and regulations.  Therefore, only the
   following subparts and sections of the HHS Standards of Conduct remain
   in effect. [Please consult with the Office of General Counsel prior to
   taking any action based on any of these subpart/sections.  Revised by
   OGC, 5/2/2000.]

   § 73.735-301 -- Courtesy and consideration for others

   § 73.735-302 -- Support of department programs

   § 73.735-305 -- Conduct in Federal buildings

   § 73.735-306 -- Sexual harassment

   § 73.735-508(e) -- Government decisions Outside Official channels

   § 73.735-805 -- Advice and guidance on conflicts matters

   Subpart L -- Disciplinary Action (§ 73.735-1201)

   Subpart M -- Reporting Violations (§§ 73.735-1301 -- 73.735-1304)

   Appendix to Part 73 -- List of Some Offenses for Which Disciplinary
   Action May be Taken
     __________________________________________________________________

   § 73.735-301 Courtesy and consideration for others.

   (a) An employee's conduct on the job is, in all respects, of concern to
   the Federal government. Courtesy, consideration, and promptness in
   dealing with the public must be shown in carrying out official
   responsibilities, and actions which deny the dignity of individuals or
   conduct which is disrespectful to others must be avoided. Employees
   must recognize that inattention to matters of common courtesy can
   adversely affect the quality of service the Department is responsible
   for pro-viding. Where appropriate, courtesy to the public should be
   included in the standards for employee performance. (b) Of equal
   importance is the requirement that courtesy be shown in day-by-day
   interaction with co-workers. Employees shall be polite to and
   considerate of other employees, and shall respect their needs and
   concerns in the work environment.

   § 73.735-302 Support of department programs.

   (a) When a Department program is based on law, Executive Order or
   regulation, every employee has a positive obligation to make it
   function as efficiently and economically as possible and to support it
   as long as it is a part of recognized public policy. An employee may,
   therefore, properly make an address explaining and interpreting such a
   program, citing its achievements, defending it against uninformed or
   unjust criticism, or soliciting views for improving it.

   (b) An employee shall not, either directly or indirectly, use
   appropriated funds to influence, or attempt to influence, a Member of
   Congress to favor or oppose legislation. However, when authorized by
   his or her supervisor, an employee is not prohibited from: (1)
   Testifying, on request, as a representative of the Department on
   pending legislation or proposals before Congressional Committees; or
   (2) Assisting Congressional Committees in drafting bills or reports on
   re-quest, when it is clear that the employee is serving solely as a
   technical expert under the direction of committee leadership.

   (c) All employees shall be familiar with regulations and published
   instructions that relate to their official duties and responsibilities
   and shall comply with those directives. This includes carrying out
   proper orders from officials authorized to give them. (d) Employees are
   required to assist the Inspector General and other investigative
   officials in the performance of their duties or functions. This
   requirement includes the giving of statements or evidence to
   investigators of the Inspector General's office or other HHS
   investigators authorized to conduct investigations into potential
   violations.

   § 73.735-305 Conduct in Federal buildings.

   (a) An employee shall not participate while on Government-owned or
   leased property or while on duty for the Government, in any gambling
   activity including the operation of a gambling device, in conducting a
   lottery or pool, in a game for money or property, or in selling or
   purchasing a numbers slip or ticket. (b) An employee shall not while in
   or on Government-owned or leased property or while on duty for the
   Government solicit alms and contributions, engage in commercial
   soliciting and vending, display or distribute commercial
   advertisements, or collect private debts. (c) The prohibitions in
   paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not preclude: (1) Activities
   necessitated by an employee's law enforcement duties; (2) Participation
   in Federally sponsored fund-raising activities conducted pursuant to
   Executive Order 10927, or similar HHS approved activities; or (3)
   Buying a lottery ticket at an authorized State lottery outlet for a
   lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State
   within that State.

   (d) General Services Administration regulations on ''Conduct on Federal
   Property'' apply to all property under the control of the General
   Services Administration, and they are also applicable to all buildings
   and space under the control of this Department. These regulations
   prohibit, among other things, gambling, being intoxicated, and
   possession, distribution, or use of narcotic or dangerous drugs on the
   premises. The GSA regulations are found in Subpart 101-20.3 of the GSA
   Regulations, 41 CFR 101-20.3.

   § 73.735-306 Sexual harassment.

   Sexual harassment is deliberate unsolicited verbal comments, gestures,
   or physical contact of a sexual nature which are unwelcome. Sexual
   harassment is unacceptable conduct and is expressly prohibited. In
   addition, supervisors and managers are prohibited from taking or
   promising personnel actions in exchange for sexual favors, or failing
   to take an action because an employee or applicant for employment,
   refuses to engage in sexual conduct. This same prohibition applies to
   relationships between Department personnel who take or recommend action
   on a grant or contract and the grantee or contractor. Those employees
   who wish to file a complaint of sexual harassment should contact the
   Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) within their respective
   agencies for guidance. (Time frames for pursuing a charge alleging
   sexual harassment are the same as for any other complaint based on
   allegations of sex discrimination.)

   § 73.735-508(e)  Other prohibitions.

   Employees shall avoid any action whether or not specifically prohibited
   by this part, which might result in or create the appearance of:
   (e) Making a Government decision outside official channels

   § 73.735-805 Advice and guidance on conflicts matters.

   (a) Whenever an employee has a question about the appropriate course of
   conduct to be followed in a matter that may involve an actual or
   apparent conflict of interest, he or she should immediately consult
   with his or her super-visor or a deputy ethics counselor, or both. If a
   supervisor who is consulted determines that the matter warrants further
   consideration, he or she may, in conjunction with the employee, submit
   the details of the matter, in writing, to the appropriate deputy ethics
   counselor. These details should include a description of:

     (1) The activity, relationship, or interest giving rise to the
     question posed by the employee;
     (2) The duties or official responsibilities of the employee(s)
     involved;
     (3) The nature of the actual or apparent conflict of interest; and
     (4) Any other information that may be helpful in reviewing the
     problem.

   (b) Upon receiving the submission of an employee or a supervisor, the
   deputy ethics counselor will develop any additional information about
   the matter as necessary, and will confer with the Department Ethics
   Counselor as appropriate. The Department Ethics Counselor and the head
   of the principal operating component or his or her designee will be
   informed of any serious violation of the standards of this subpart or
   any other conflict of interest law. Questions of first impression or
   other unusual matters shall be brought to the attention of the
   Department Ethics Counselor and the head of the principal operating
   component or his or her designee.

   (c) On the basis of all information gathered including, where
   appropriate, the advice of the Department Ethics Counselor, the deputy
   ethics counselor will:

     (1) Decide that there is no violation or potential violation of the
     standards of this subpart or any other law and so notify the
     employee and his or her supervisor in writing; or
     (2) Decide that a violation or potential violation of the standards
     of this subpart or other law has occurred or may occur, and that the
     employee involved shall take one or more of the steps set forth in §
     731.735-904 to resolve the problem and notify the employee and his
     or her supervisor in writing; or
     (3) Decide that, although no violation of this subpart or other law
     has occurred, the nature of the matter is such that the employee
     should periodically report any additional information that would
     require reconsideration of the initial submission.

   Subpart L -- Disciplinary Action (§ 73.735-1201)

   § 73.735-1201 General provisions.

   (a) Violations of the regulations con-tained in the Part may be cause
   for disciplinary action which could be in addition to any penalty
   prescribed by law. (For a list of some offenses for which disciplinary
   action may be taken and ''The Code of Ethics for Government Service,''
   the violation of which may also result in disciplinary action, see
   Appendixes A and B of this Part).

   (b) The type of disciplinary action to be taken must be determined in
   relation to the specific violation. Those responsible for recommending
   and for taking disciplinary action must apply judgment to each case,
   taking into account the general objectives of meeting any requirements
   of law, deterring similar offenses by the employee and other employees,
   and maintaining high standards of employee conduct and public
   confidence. Some types of disciplinary action which may be considered
   are:

     (1) Admonishment
     (2) Written reprimand
     (3) Reassignment
     (4) Suspension
     (5) Demotion
     (6) Removal

   (c) Suspension, demotion, and removal are adverse actions; and when
   such actions are taken, applicable laws, regulations, and policies must
   be followed. [46 FR 7369, Jan. 23, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 4409, Feb.
   16, 1988]

   Subpart M--Reporting Violations

   § 73.735-1301 Responsibility for reporting possible criminal
   violations. An employee who has information which he or she reasonably
   believes indicates a possible offense against the United States by an
   employee of the Department, or any other individual working on behalf
   of the Department, shall immediately report such information to his or
   her supervisor, any management official, or directly to the Office of
   the Inspector General. Offenses covered by the preceding sentence
   include, but are not limited to, bribery, fraud, perjury, conflict of
   interest, misuse of funds, equipment, or facilities, and other conduct
   by a government officer or employee, grantee, contractor or other
   person which is prohibited by title 18 of the United States Code.
   Employees and supervisors should refer to chapter 5-10 of the
   Department's General Administration Manual for procedures regarding the
   reporting and handling of such information.

   APPENDIX A TO PART 73--LIST OF SOME OFFENSES FOR WHICH
   DISCIPLINARY ACTION MAY BE TAKEN

   Following is a list of some offenses for which disciplinary action may
   be taken under this Part. When a statute applies specifically to a
   particular offense, either wholly or in part, the statute is cited.
   Neither the list of offenses nor the statutory citations are
   all-inclusive. The ''Code of Ethics for Government Service'' is not
   cited because of its general applicability but is published in its
   entirety in Appendix B.

   A. Concerning Efficiency of Operations in General.
    1. Engaging in wasteful actions or behavior in the performance of
       assigned duties; conducting non-Government business during official
       work hours; or participating in a strike (18 U.S.C. 1918), work
       stoppage, slowdown, sickout, or other similar action.
    2. Absence without leave, failure to adhere to the rules and
       regulations for requesting and obtaining leave, or improper use of
       sick leave.
    3. Deliberate insubordination or refusal to carry out lawful orders or
       assignments given.
    4. Disruptive behavior, such as:

    a. Inflicting or threatening or attempting to inflict bodily injury on
       another (except for necessary defense of self or others) while on
       the job or on Federal premises.
    b. Discourtesy, disreputable conduct, or use of insulting, abusive or
       obscene language to or about other individuals while on the job.

     Sexual harassment of employees or members of the public.

     Failure to observe precautions for safety, such as failure to use
   safety equipment when it is provided or ignoring signs, posted rules or
   regulations, or written or verbal safety instructions.

     Unauthorized use, possession, or distribution of alcoholic beverages
   (5 U.S.C. 7352) or controlled substances (e.g., hallucinogens, such as
   LSD; stimulants, such as cocaine and amphetamines; sedatives, such as
   barbiturates; narcotics and other drugs or substances, such as hashish
   and other cannabis substances).

     Unauthorized gambling; or canvassing, soliciting, or peddling on
   Government premises.

     Failure to carry or show proper identification or credentials as
   required by competent authority; misuse of identification cards or
   investigative or identification credentials or badges.

     Failure to disclose (i.e., report) information, when such disclosure
   is not specifically prohibited by law or Executive Order, that involves
   (a) violation of law, rule, or regulation, (b) mismanagement or gross
   waste of funds or abuse of authority, or (c) posing a substantial and
   specific danger to public health or safety; failure to cooperate in an
   official Department inquiry.

     Failure to pay just debts, including taxes to and loans from
   governmental sources.

     Deceit or interference in a Civil Service examination (18 U.S.C.
   1917) or in connection with a Government personnel action.

     Fraud or false statements in a Government matter. (18 U.S.C. 1001
   through 1003.)

     Supervisory failure to initiate disciplinary or corrective action
   when the facts are known and disciplinary or corrective action is
   warranted.

     Employment of a member of an organization that advocates the
   overthrow of our constitutional form of government. (5 U.S.C. 7311; 50
   U.S.C. 784.)

   B. Concerning Government Funds, Property, Documents, and Records.
    1. Actual or attempted embezzlement or theft of Government or personal
       money or property either directly or through use of Government
       documents, automated equipment, or other means; actual or attempted
       embezzlement or theft of the money or property of another person in
       the possession of an employee by reason of his or her employment.
       (18 U.S.C. 641 and 654.)
    2. Failure to account for public money. (18 U.S.C. 643.)
    3. Deliberate falsifying of official time and attendance records;
       improper use of official travel or forging, counterfeiting, or
       otherwise falsifying official Government travel records or
       documents. (18 U.S.C. 508.)
    4. False record entries or false reports of money or securities. (18
       U.S.C. 2073.)
    5. Loss or misuse of or damage to Government property or endangering
       persons or Government property through carelessness or by willful
       malicious conduct.
    6. Mutilating, destroying, or concealing public records. (18 U.S.C.
       2071.)
    7. Misuse of penalty (postal) privilege. (18 U.S.C. 1719.)
    8. Failure to safeguard administratively confidential, financial, and
       trade secrets information.
    9. Unauthorized use of documents presented or used to procure the
       payment of money from or by the Government. (18 U.S.C. 285.)
   10. Unauthorized use of a Government vehicle; serious or repeated
       violations of traffic regulations while driving a Government
       vehicle or a vehicle rented or leased for official Government
       purposes; reckless driving or improper operation of any Government
       owned, rented, or leased motor vehicle. (31 U.S.C. 1349[b].)
   11. Violations of the Privacy Act, including:

    a. Willful prohibited disclosure of individually identifiable
       information in violation of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
    b. Willfully maintaining a system of records without meeting the
       notice requirements of the Privacy Act as required by 5 U.S.C.
       552a.

     Violation of regulations concerning the release of classified
   information, confidential, or security and investigative information.
   (18 U.S.C. 798 and 1905; 21 U.S.C. 331j; and 50 U.S.C. 783.)

   C. Concerning Conflicts of Interest and Related Unethical Conduct:
    1. Violations of 18 U.S.C. Chapter 11: Bribery, Graft, and Conflicts
       of Interest, including:

    a. Having a direct or indirect financial interest (includes employee
       ownership of stocks, bonds, or partnership interests in an entity
       or employment of the employee, his or her spouse, or dependent
       child) that conflicts with one's Government duties because such
       entity is either regulated by, has or seeks to do business with the
       agency, or has any other particular matter with or pending before
       the agency that may give rise to either an actual conflict or the
       appearance thereof. (18 U.S.C. 208.)
    b. Bribery of a public official; soliciting or accepting directly or
       indirectly anything of monetary value, including gifts, gratuities,
       favors, entertainment, or loans either as compensation for
       governmental services or from individuals who are seeking
       contractual or other business or financial relations with the
       Department, are conducting operations or activities that are
       regulated by the Department, or have interests that may be
       substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the
       employee's official duties; receiving salary or any contribution to
       or supplementation of salary from a private source as compensation
       for services for the Government. (18 U.S.C. 201 and 209.)
    c. Acting as the agent of a foreign principal registered under the
       Foreign Agents Registration Act. (18 U.S.C. 219.)

     Engaging, directly or indirectly, in a financial transaction as a
   result of or primarily relying on information that is obtained through
   one's official duties and would not be available were the employee not
   an employee of the Federal Government.

     Soliciting a contribution from another employee for a gift to an
   official superior, making a donation as a gift to an official superior,
   or accepting a gift from an employee receiving less pay than oneself.
   (5 U.S.C. 7351.)

     Engaging, without required permission, in outside activities that
   result in or create the appearance of a conflict of interest.

     Teaching, lecturing, or writing that depends in specific information
   obtained as a result of one's Government employment when that
   information is not otherwise available to the public.

     Failure to obtain required clearance of an official speech or
   article.

     Lobbying with appropriated funds. (18 U.S.C. 1913.)

     Representation before a Federal agency (other than in the proper
   discharge of one's official duties) as an agent or attorney in a claim
   against the United States (or receiving any gratuity or share in any
   such claim in consideration for assistance given) or as an agent or
   attorney for anyone before any department, agency, court, or otherwise
   in connection with any proceeding, application, request for a ruling,
   or claim on any other particular matter in which the United States is a
   party or has a direct and substantial interest. (18 U.S.C. 205.) (Note:
   This section notwithstanding, an employee may, if not in-consistent
   with the performance of his or her official duties, act without
   compensation as an agent or attorney for another person who is the
   subject of any disciplinary or other administrative proceeding or as an
   agent or attorney for one's parent, spouse, child, or any person or
   estate for whom or which he or she serves as personal fiduciary except
   in those matters in which the employee has participated personally and
   substantially.)

   D. Concerning Prohibited Political and Election Activities.
    1. Activities prohibited by 5 U.S.C. Chapter 73, Subchapter III,
       including:

    a. Section 7323, ''Political contributions; prohibition.''
    b. Section 7324, ''Influencing elections; taking part in political
       campaigns; prohibitions; exceptions.''

     Activities prohibited by 18 U.S.C. Chapter29, including:
    a. Section 594, ''Intimidation of voters.''
    b. Section 597, ''Expenditures to influence voting.''
    c. Section 598, ''Coercion by means of relief appropriations.''
    d. Section 600, ''Promise of employment or other benefit for political
       activity.''
    e. Section 601, ''Deprivation of employment or other benefit for
       political contribution.''
    f. Section 602, ''Solicitation of political contributions.''
    g. Section 604, ''Solicitation from persons on relief.''
    h. Section 606, ''Intimidation to secure political contributions.''

   E. Concerning Prohibited Personnel Practices.
    1. Commission of a prohibited personnel practice (as defined in 5
       U.S.C. 2302[b] [1-11]); that is, any employee who has authority to
       take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel
       action, shall not, with respect to such authority, commit any of
       the following practices:

    a. Discriminate for or against any employee or applicant for
       employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national
       origin, age, handicapping condition, marital status, or political
       affiliation.
    b. Solicit or consider any recommendation or statement, oral or
       written, with respect to any individual who requests or is under
       consideration for any personnel action unless such recommendation
       or statement is based on the personal knowledge or records of the
       person furnishing it and consists of (1) an evaluation of the work
       performance ability, aptitude, or general qualifications of such
       individual or (2) an evaluation of the character, loyalty, or
       suitability of such individual.
    c. Coerce the political activity of any person (including the
       providing of any political contribution or service) or take any
       action against any employee or applicant for employment as a
       reprisal for the refusal of any person to engage in such political
       activity.
    d. Deceive or willfully obstruct any person with respect to such
       person's right to compete for employment.
    e. Influence any person to withdraw from competition for any position
       for the purpose of improving or injuring the prospects of any other
       person for employment.
    f. Grant any preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or
       regulation to any employee or applicant for employment (including
       defining the scope or manner of competition or the requirements for
       any position) for the purpose of improving or injuring the
       prospects of any particular person for employment.
    g. Appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment,
       employment, pro-motion, or advancement, in or to a civilian
       position any individual who is a relative (as defined in 5 U.S.C.
       3110) when the civilian position is in the Department or under his
       or her jurisdiction or control.
    h. Take or fail to take a personnel action with respect to any
       employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for the lawful
       disclosure of information.
    i. Take or fail to take any personnel action against an employee or
       applicant for employment as a reprisal for the exercise of any
       appeal right granted by any law, rule, or regulation (including HHS
       Instructions and issuances).
    j. Discriminate for or against any employee or applicant for
       employment on the basis of conduct that does not adversely affect
       the performance of the employee or applicant or the performance of
       others (except criminal conviction in determining suit-ability or
       fitness).
    k. Take or fail to take any personnel action when the taking of or
       failure to take such action violates any law, rule, or regulation
       implementing, or directly concerning the merit system principles
       (as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 2301).

   [53 FR 4410, Feb. 16, 1988]
     __________________________________________________________________

Return to Ethics Home Page

                                                                                        04/25/01 .
