http://appl.nasa.gov/knowledge/issues/team_tools.html


      menu
      click to read About APPL
      click to view Leadership Place
      click to view the Knowledge Sharing Page
      click to view ask magazine
      click to view Best Practices page
      Click to view Teams Page
      Click for Issues technology
      Click for Articles Page
      click to view bookstore
      Click for iKnowledge Forum Page
      Click to view calender
      Click to view resources pages
      Click to View Tools Page
      Click to Contact Us
      Click to view site map
      Click to View APPL Home

                   search
   ____________________
   [gosearch.gif]-Submit
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]


   knowledge sharing

   [spacer.gif]
   TEAMS
   PRACTICAL TEAM TOOLS FOR CONDUCTING PROJECT BUSINESS:
   Facilitating Effective and Efficient Meetings, Brainstorming to
   Generate Ideas, and Decision-Making by Consensus
   by Claire Kinlaw

   Facilitating Effective and Efficient Meetings

   Teams and teamwork are generally viewed as critical for achieving
   superior performance (D. C. Kinlaw, 1998. Superior Teams: What They Are
   and How to Develop Them, Gower Publishing, Ltd.). Findings from a study
   of NASA project teams (Developing Superior Project Teams: A Study of
   the Characteristics of High Performance in Project Teams by Hoffman,
   Kinlaw, and Kinlaw, 2001. View the .pdf version at
   http://www.team-appl.com/About/findings.pdf) further supported this
   view for the NASA project environment. The formation of project teams
   and their ongoing development require the successful integration of
   team processes to the performance of daily project work. Meetings are
   an important part of daily project work, but such meetings are often a
   squandered expenditure of time and effort and a squandered opportunity
   for projects to develop effective teams and thereby maximize their
   probability of success. To be effective and efficient, meetings require
   facilitation of three important functions:
     * Maintenance of Clarity
     * Maintenance of Awareness
     * Maintenance of Interaction

   Teams that facilitate clarity:
    1. Ensure meeting starts with clear goals,
    2. Ensure members are clear about behavioral norms to follow during
       the meeting, and
    3. Ensure steps are clear when solving a problem, performing a task or
       making a decision.

   Teams that facilitate awareness:
    1. Keep members conscious of what they are doing,
    2. Get members back on track when they become confused or lose sight
       of the meeting goals, and
    3. Ensure information is recorded and reviewed during the meeting.

   Teams that facilitate interaction:
    1. Ensure all members participate,
    2. Ensure members are heard and understood, and
    3. Ensure members express their ideas clearly and concretely.

   These three functions can be achieved by a team as its members
   informally take on the role of facilitation for brief or designated
   periods of time. Like any skill, success requires practice and
   feedback. The degree to which a team acquires the skill of facilitating
   effective and efficient meetings determines in large part how
   successful that team will be in utilizing fully the knowledge and
   skills of its members to solve problems and improve performance.

   Facilitation Skills Feedback Form

   As with team development in general, meeting facilitation can be
   assessed with respect to the target of three critical functions. Use
   the following set of items to give feedback to anyone who wants to
   practice and improve his/her team meeting facilitation skills. Rate the
   person facilitating the meeting on each function using the following
   scale:

   5 = completely agree; 4 = somewhat agree; 3 = slightly disagree; 2 =
   somewhat disagree; 1 = completely disagree.


   Facilitates Clarity
   He/she ensured the team:
   1. Started the meeting with clear goals.                            5 4 3 2 1
   2. Developed clear norms to follow during its meetings.             5 4 3 2 1
   3. Identified the steps to follow in performing its tasks and making
   decisions.                                                          5 4 3 2 1

   Facilitates Awareness
   He/she ensured the team:
   4. Stayed conscious of what it was doing.                           5 4 3 2 1
   5. Got back on track when it became confused.
                                                                       5 4 3 2 1
   6. Recorded and reviewed information as it was developed.           5 4 3 2 1

   Facilitates Interaction
   He/she ensured that all team members:
   7. Participated fully.                                              5 4 3 2 1
   8. Were heard and understood.
                                                                       5 4 3 2 1
   9. Expressed themselves concretely.
                                                                       5 4 3 2 1

   Brainstorming to Generate Ideas

   One of the tasks for which teams need successful meetings is to
   generate possible ideas and information. Brainstorming is a structured
   group technique for generating information that involves the
   spontaneous contribution of ideas from all group members. The technique
   requires the use of a flip chart or black board to display information
   generated by the team, and it follows the general process outlined
   below:

    1. Clarify ground rules for brainstorming.
    2. Define topic or information target.
    3. Go around to each member of the group initially and request ideas
       in sequence.
    4. Record all ideas.
    5. End with input in any order from members.
    6. Follow these rules in generating ideas:
          + Express one idea at a time
          + Allow no criticism or discussion
          + Record all ideas, even if they seem repetitious
          + Piggyback on ideas.
    7. Review all ideas and clarify. Do not eliminate, only reword as
       needed.
    8. Review all ideas and combine ideas that are redundant.
    9. Review, clarify, and add, to develop a final list of ideas.

   Consensus Decision-Making

   A second important task for which teams need successful meetings is
   reaching decisions. Consensus Decision-Making is a process in which all
   team members have a chance to influence, accept, and support a
   decision. All members feel at least partially represented and no one
   feels excluded. As a result, all the knowledge and skills of the
   members of a team are used as resources for solving a problem. Like
   Brainstorming, Consensus Decision-Making is a structured process with a
   recognizable form that can be described and used, thus:
    1. Hold a full discussion of the subject about which a decision must
       be made.
    2. Identify where there is agreement and disagreement. It is useful to
       place lists of areas of agreement and disagreement on a chart or
       black board so all members can see them.
    3. Try to reconcile the different opinions by using such techniques
       as:

     * Worse case scenario
     * Pro and con list for each alternative
     * Having people with one point of view state what they think the
       other points of view are, to test understanding
     * Asking holdouts what it would take for them to accept the majority
       decision
     * Collecting more data and further clarifying alternatives.

   Claire Kinlaw has been delivering team development workshops for NASA's
   Project Management Program since 1998, and is currently providing
   web-based team assessment and support for team development to intact
   NASA projects. Claire is President of Developmental Products and
   project leader for the USDA Forest Service Institute of Forest
   Genetics.
   email Claire Kinlaw

   [spacer.gif]
   news & articles
   project management
   best practices
   teams
   technology
   techspace
   nanotechnology
   nets
   intelligent systems
   super
   interface
   appl
   [spacer.gif]
