http://www.csb.gov/news/2001/n20010531.htm

   Line Separator Image Line Separator Image Line Separator Image

                      ABOUT THE CSB
              Line Separator Image
                     INVESTIGATIONS
              Line Separator Image
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
              Line Separator Image
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
              Line Separator Image
                          CHEMLINKS
              Line Separator Image
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
              Line Separator Image
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
              Line Separator Image
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
              Line Separator Image

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner Line Separator Image corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation
   Reactive Chemicals Hazard Investigation Continues; Input Encouraged
   from CSB Stakeholders

                                                       TRANSLATE THIS PAGE

   (Washington, DC - May 30, 2001): Work is continuing at the CSB on a
   comprehensive Hazard Investigation of reactive chemical hazards. The
   investigation is a direct result of the CSB investigation of the April
   8, 1998 runaway reaction and subsequent fire at Morton International
   Chemicals in Paterson, New Jersey.

   Approximately 170 reactive chemical incidents over a twenty-year period
   are included in the investigation.

   The objectives of the reactive chemical hazard investigation are to:

   (1) Determine the impact of reactive chemical incidents; (2) Examine
   how industry, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
   and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) address reactive chemical
   hazards; and (3) Analyze the appropriateness of and consider
   alternatives to industry and OSHA use of the National Fire Protection
   Association (NFPA) reactivity rating system for reactive hazard
   management.

   The hazard investigation will likely result in recommendations to
   promote the safe handling of reactive chemicals.

   Public Hearing Scheduled

   The results of the hazard investigation will be presented in a public
   hearing in the late summer or early fall of 2001. The purpose of the
   safety hearing is to communicate CSB findings and conclusions, and to
   gather input from all interested parties prior to making final
   recommendations and issuing a Board-approved report. The public safety
   hearing may include panel discussions of each of the major areas
   covered in the hazard investigation. The panel speakers will be
   stakeholders, industry leaders, and recognized experts. There will be
   an opportunity for public comment.

   The exact date and location of the hearing will be announced within the
   next few months. Announcements about the Reactive Chemicals Hazard
   Investigation will be disseminated through a number of media, including
   the CSB Internet News Distribution list. The CSB Internet News
   Distribution list is a free service providing information about the
   activities and actions of the CSB. Subscribing to the News list may be
   done here on the CSB website.

   In conducting the hazard investigation, CSB is considering the needs,
   concerns, and suggestions of stakeholders in the safety of reactive
   chemicals. The investigation is examining both current and proposed
   guidance for managing reactive chemical hazards, including company best
   practices, industry wide guidance, and regulatory requirements.

   Regulatory Requirements Examined

   As recommended in CSB's Morton Chemical investigation report, OSHA and
   EPA are participating in CSB's hazard investigation. CSB is
   particularly interested in understanding both the regulatory
   requirements, and the other resources or guidance provided by these
   agencies. The primary regulations that apply in this case are OSHA's
   PSM (Process Safety Management) and EPA's RMP (Risk Management
   Program). The strengths and weaknesses of existing regulations will be
   evaluated in terms of the reactive chemical issue.

   OSHA's PSM standard lists reactive chemicals that it considers to be
   highly hazardous. This list was derived from NFPA Standard 49, which
   rates instability (terminology changed from "reactivity" to
   "instability" in the 1996 update) using NFPA Standard 704. CSB intends
   to review the advantages and disadvantages of the NFPA reactivity
   ratings for use in developing possible revisions to the PSM standard
   and, as appropriate, to compare these to alternative technical
   approaches.

   Information for the hazard investigation is being collected from
   several different sources.

   Reactive Chemical Incidents

   The search criteria for the CSB investigation focus on incidents where
   the primary cause is related to chemical reactivity, as defined below:

   A reactive chemical incident is a sudden event involving an
   uncontrolled chemical reaction with abrupt and significant increases in
   temperature, pressure, and/or gas evolution that has the potential to
   or has caused serious harm to people, property or the environment.

   The scope of the incident search is limited to events that take place
   at chemical manufacturing or bulk usage locations, including raw
   material storage through chemical processing to product storage. The
   search does not include incidents involving transportation, pipelines,
   laboratories, minerals extraction, mining, explosives manufacturing,
   pyrotechnic manufacturing, or military uses. For the purposes of the
   incident search, the definition of a reactive chemical incident is
   limited to incidents that have caused serious harm. Events involving
   simple combustion (i.e., rapid reaction of fuel (liquid, vapor, or
   dust) with oxygen in air) are excluded from the incident search.

   Industry Survey of Management Practices

   The Morton Investigation Report highlighted the importance of
   management systems to control reactive chemical hazards. Consequently,
   another major element of the hazard investigation is an assessment of
   large, medium, and small companies that store, handle, and process
   reactive chemicals to learn about current industry management
   practices. This assessment will be done using a written industry
   survey, and site visits.

   Individuals or organizations with relevant information to contribute to
   this study may contact the Reactive Chemical Hazards investigation team
   at reactives@csb.gov.


            FORMAT         PORTION OF REPORT                     FILE SIZE
   Microsoft Word Document This page in Microsoft Word Format    37 Kb
     Adobe PDF Document    This page in Adobe Acrobat PDF Format 13 Kb
    HTML Document = HTML Document    Microsoft Word Document = Microsoft
   Word Document    Adobe PDF Document = Adobe PDF Document
   PAGE LAST UPDATED:May 31, 2001
                              Line Separator Image
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
