http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/topics.cfm?ID=61


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Distance Learning

   work together



   Distance learning is a new and innovative teaching method that lets
   people learn at any time, any place and any pace. These resources
   include comprehensive gateways and successful practices from our
   Network members.


   @cademy Online: Distance Education Information

   Distance education news, commentary, best practices and information.

   A Matrix of Blue Ribbon Internet Resources

   Web-based courses, tutorials, lesson plans, hot lists, resources and
   more. Arts, Business, Math, English, Languages, Science, Physical
   Education, History & Social Studies, Technology, Vocational Education,
   Community Interest. Everything from using everyday problems to teach
   math, to on-line field trips through National Parks, to a Spanish
   version of lessons for building websites.

   ACE Center for Adult Learning

   Guiding Principles for Distance Learning

   Adult Education Resource Materials

   The Bibliography of Resource Materials provides a listing of articles
   and publications that either deal directly with the State-administered
   adult education program funded under the Adult Education and Family
   Literacy Act of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 or provide support
   to adult education and literacy activities.

   American Distance Education Consortium

   Listing of distance education programs of state universities and land
   grant colleges

   California Distance Learning Project

   The California Distance Learning Project has been created to usher in a
   new era of distance learning. For many years, most distance education
   has focused on one- or two-way communications through video and
   television. Emerging technologies have opened up other avenues for
   distance learning delivery. This project focuses on using communication
   through computers as a vehicle for student and teacher interaction. The
   project goal is to increase access to adult basic learning services.
   The objective is to help lay the groundwork for a California adult
   basic education distance learning infrastructure.

   CLASS- Online Learning

   CLASS (Communications, Learning and Assessment in a Student-centered
   System) is a dynamically student-centered learning environment
   delivered via the World Wide Web. Using innovative technology, the
   CLASS Project maximizes student learning through the use of moving
   imagery, graphics, sound and text within a seamless navigational system
   that encourages individualized discovery and learning

   College is Possible for Adults

   Resources to help adult students reach their dreams of a college
   education, including Myths and Realities about Going to College as an
   Adult

   Colorado Community College Online

   CCC Online is composed of the 14 colleges in the Colorado Community
   College and Occupational Education System (CCCOES), Dawson Community
   College and Northwest Missouri State University. Through CCC Online,
   you can now earn a fully accredited Associate of Arts, Associate of
   Applied Science Degrees and Certificates, in various disciplines.

   CORD Online

   Whether developing curricula, delivering professional development
   workshops, creating new applications of technology, conducting applied
   educational research, or facilitating education and employer
   partnerships, the non-profit organization CORD strives to empower
   educators to make meaningful connections between school and work for
   the benefit of students. To accomplish this mission, CORD assists
   educators in schools and colleges in three areas: curriculum
   development, professional development, and Tech Prep leadership.

   Counseling

   On-line demonstrations and discussion of cybercounseling and
   cyberlearning:

   Department of Educations Free Education Links

   Links to free education online learning in the arts, sciences, social
   studies and more.

   Distance Education General Resources

   An abundance of links to distance education sites, publications, news
   groups, etc.

   Distance Learning Links

   This page links to distance education resources, information, and
   programs geared to professionals and distance learning administrators
   as well as traditional students.

   E-Learning, Training and Collaboration Updates

   Access e-learning research, information, tools and helpful links
   through this education and technology thinktank.

   Falling Through the Net

   A report on the "digital divide" believed to be prominent in America
   today.

   Funding Your Education Needs

   These links may help individuals find funding for all types of
   education and training, including distance learning.

   Goodwill Online Learning

   Global online learning project of Goodwill Industries of Eastern North
   Carolina. Takes current technology classroom program on-line: word
   processing, spreadsheets, PowerPoint, using the Internet.

   Iowa Literacy Resource Center

   The Center provides a link to resource materials in Iowa and at a
   regional and national level for adult literacy practitioners and
   students. These resources are available in many formats; including
   print, audio, video and online.

   Jobs for the Future

   This guide provides concrete assistance for family literacy and adult
   education organizations to help integrate work and learning.

   Kansas State Literacy Resource Center

   This site is one of 12 state resource centers that make up the Midwest
   Adult Literacy Network (M-NET). The Kansas site was developed and is
   being maintained in part through grant support from the National
   Institute for Literacy and Adult Education 353 Staff Development
   monies.

   Keeping Schools Open as Learning Centers

   The U.S. Department of Education provides information on the benefits
   and how tos of keeping schools open late as community learning centers.

   Learning Anytime Anywhere Partnerships (LAAP)

   LAAP is a grant program for innovative and nationally significant
   distance education projects. Here you will find descriptions of newly
   funded partnerships.

   Maryland Community Colleges' Business Training Network (MCC BTN)

   Maryland Community Colleges' Business Training Network (MCC BTN) is a
   network of the sixteen community colleges in the State of Maryland. We
   provide Maryland businesses with one central site which connects to all
   the training opportunities in the State.

   National Center for Research in Vocational Education

   NCRVE is the nation's largest center for research, development,
   dissemination, and outreach in work-related education. The presence of
   NCRVE or one of its members in nearly every region of the country puts
   it in contact with the enormous diversity of educational institutions
   and labor markets in the United States. It also connects NCRVE with
   practitioners in each geographic region of the country.

   New Horizons in Adult Education

   New Horizons in Adult Education, founded in 1987, is an electronic
   journal focused on current research and ideas in adult education. It is
   a refereed journal, published two or three times each year, which
   provides graduate students, faculty, researchers, and adult education
   practitioners with a means for publishing their current thinking and
   research within adult education and related fields.

   Pennsylvania Workforce Improvement Network

   The goal of PA WIN is to help adult basic education providers develop a
   centralized, market-driven system of services for employers and
   incumbent workers. This goal is to integrate those services with
   Pennsylvania's workforce development system, including linkages with
   Team Pennsylvania CareerLink.

   SBA and Cisco Systems Internet Essentials

   Get a solid knowledge of the Internet economy, and the technologies and
   services you will need to put the power of the Internet to work for
   you.

   School to Work Best Practices

   Searchable "Examples that Work!" database was created to share ideas,
   inspiration, and information from the field to the field.

   School-to-Work Programs

   The School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994 funds partnerships of
   business, labor, government, education, and community organizations.
   The focus is education reform and worker preparation to prepare youth
   for high wage, high skill careers.

   Sloan Foundation Consortium Catalog of Online Learning

   View this compilation of on-line degree and certification programs
   offered by select universities, colleges, and community colleges.

   Stories online

   Stories online is a course for adult learners who: - have an interest
   in stories and wish to explore the significance of stories, to
   themselves as individuals or to cultures - want to return to further
   study in the humanities - wish to study an area of interest and to
   develop reading and writing skills under the guidance of a teacher -
   cannot or do not want to attend classes regularly - want to discuss
   ideas with others.

   Technology and Adult Literacy

   The Harnessing Technology Web pages help adult literacy education
   (ABE/GED/ESL/ESOL) teachers and learners to use computers, television,
   audio and video cassettes, and other electronic technology to help
   solve learning and instructional problems. The Web pages grow and
   improve as practitioners and learners describe problems and contribute
   good solutions which use technology. Problems and solutions which are
   unattributed are those of David J. Rosen. The most recent ones are
   marked with a icon.

   Technology Training Special Collection

   The Technology Training Special Collection provides access to a variety
   of resources electronically. At this site you can explore resources
   dealing with using technolgy in teaching and learning, developing
   technology based resources and training users on the LINCS system. You
   will also discover professional development topics and current event
   information.

   The Literacy List

   A free, online professional development guide to integrating the World
   Wide Web into adult literacy instruction. Designed for staff
   developers, it can also be used by teachers. Its main objective is to
   help teachers learn how to construct meaningful Web-based instructional
   activities and projects.

   U. S. Department of Defense

   DOD Advanced Distributed Learning network. Includes online courses,
   video library, links to many e-learning resources.

   University Continuing Education Association

   List of distance learning courses at undergraduate and graduate degree
   programs expressly for working adults and other part-time students.

   Urban Teacher Academy Project

   This site is designed to help school districts and schools, colleges,
   and departments of education learn about high school teaching career
   academies -- programs that encourage high school students to consider
   careers in teaching.

   Vocational Education

   New Directions for High School Career and Technical Education in the
   21st Century - an online paper

   Vocational Education Legislation

   All guidance and other information issued by the Department related to
   the implementation of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical
   Education Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-332) is posted here on a regular
   basis.

   Workers.gov- Distance Education

   Links to national, regional and state distance education resources
   through this gateway.

   Workers.gov- On-line Learning Modules

   Free, quality on line learning lessons, links and gateways in reading,
   math, science, history, the arts and a special section on computer
   literacy.

   Workforce Education

   This site is a comprehensive collection of workforce education
   resources that focus the basic skills and literacy needs of the
   workforce. Through this single access point, instructors,
   administrators, and adult learners can find activities and links
   exclusively related to workforce education.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
