http://www.vamhcs.med.va.gov/volunteers/index.html

   Caring Enough to Make a Difference
   Volunteer Services VAMHCS Home Page
   VA Volunteers
   VA Youth Volunteer
   Volunteer with wheelchair
   Volunteer with patient
   Volunteer with patient
   VA Volunteer Blank image What volunteer opportunities are available?
   As a volunteer, you can experience meaningful assignments throughout
   the VA Maryland Health Care System. We will assist you in finding an
   assignment based on your skills, needs and desired level of
   involvement. Assignments include:

   • Escort Service
   • Patient Greeter
   • Information Desk Attendant
   • Nursing Assistant
   • Driver
   • Mailroom Clerk             • Data Entry Assistant
                                • Recreation Aid
                                • Receptionist
                                • Clerical Assistant
                                • Youth Volunteer

   There are many other volunteer opportunities within our health care
   system. We want your volunteer experience to be as rewarding for you as
   it is for us. Our goal is to assist you in finding an assignment that
   most closely fits your special talents.

   Benefits & Privileges
   As a VA Maryland Health Care System volunteer, you will receive a
   number of benefits, including:

   • Opportunity to take advantage of discounts at the Canteen Retail
   Store

   • Eligibility for Membership at the Perry Point Credit Union

   • Eligibility for Special Health Services, including flu shots, skin
   tests and information on health and wellness issues
   • Educational Seminars

   • Newsletter,
   “The Volunteer Voice”

   • Free Parking

   • Complimentary Meal

   • Access to our Medical Library

   How Do I Get Started?
   You may receive an application simply by calling the Office of Public &
   Community Relations (Voluntary Services) at any of our locations within
   the VA Maryland Health Care System.

   Baltimore VA Medical Center /
   Southern Maryland VA Outpatient Clinic
   10 North Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201
   (410) 605-7100

   Fort Howard VA Medical Center /
   Glen Burnie VA Outpatient Clinic
   9600 North Point Road, Fort Howard, MD 21052
   (410) 477-7017

   Perry Point VA Medical Center /
   Cambridge VA Outpatient Clinic /
   Pocomoke City VA Outpatient Clinic
   Perry Point, MD 21902
   (410) 642-1039

   Baltimore VA Rehabilitation & Extended Care Center /
   Loch Raven VA Outpatient Clinic
   3900 Loch Raven Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21218
   (410) 605-7000, ext. 5877

   After a review of your application, you will be scheduled for an
   interview and orientation. Please call us if you have any questions. We
   will be happy to assist you.

   How Can I Help?

   Volunteers are very special at the VA Maryland Health Care System…
   special in many ways. You most likely have skills that are extremely
   valuable to us. Your commitment and desire to donate your time and
   talents to those who have served this country will provide a vital link
   to the community for our veteran patients. Through the partnership of
   dedicated employees and caring volunteers, the needs of our veterans
   are being met.

   If you have trouble accessing information on this site, please contact
    the webmaster (vamhcswebmaster@med.va.gov) or call Regina DeSimone at
                        410-605-7000, extension 6718.


   Blank image
   Blank image An Invitation to help others
   You are invited to become a member of our Health Care Team as a
   volunteer at the VA Maryland Health Care System. The facilities that
   comprise the VA Maryland Health Care System include the:

   • Baltimore VA Medical Center

   • Fort Howard VA Medical Center

   • Perry Point VA Medical Center

   • Baltimore VA Rehabilitation & Extended Care Center

   • Baltimore Community-Based Outpatient Clinic

   • Glen Burnie VA Outpatient Clinic

   • Loch Raven VA Outpatient Clinic

   • Pocomoke City VA Outpatient Clinic

   • Cambridge VA Outpatient Clinic

   • Southern Maryland VA Outpatient Clinic

   As a volunteer, you are contributing to our mission of providing
   quality health care to Maryland’s veterans. Will you join us? The Gift
   of Giving can make a real difference to our veteran patients.

   Thank you for your interest in Voluntary Service at the VA Maryland
   Health Care System.
   Every volunteer, regardless of assigned task, complements the delivery
   of quality patient care by focusing on the human needs of our veterans.


   Blank image
   Blank image By becoming a volunteer you can make a difference Blank
   image
   blank image
   A member of the
   VA Capitol Health Care Network


   Blank image
