http://commercial.hq.nasa.gov/price.html


   Animation-Fading images of the Space Station, Computer Chip, Nuclear
   Plant, Satellite, Plants, and Mother & Child
   Site Map
   Commercial Opportunity
   Submitting Offers
   Intellectual Property Protection
   Pricing
   Agreements
   Research & Development
   Related Links
   Government Policies
   Reports & Papers
   International
   Contact Information
   What's New
   NASA Insignia - Jump to NASA home site

   ISS Commercial Development

   The following information on the preliminary price structure and
   schedule has been shared with the international partners and represents
   initial benchmarks for the United States share of International Space
   Station resources and accommodations. Prices will be updated
   periodically. The United States will continue to consult with its
   international partners on all aspects in order to achieve the greatest
   mutual benefit for the partnership on a coordinated finalized
   commercial development approach for the International Space Station.

   Introduction

   On October 20, 1999, the President signed into law the FY 2000
   VA-HUD-Independent Agencies Appropriations Act (P.L. 106-74), which
   established, in Section 434, a "Space Station Commercial Development
   Demonstration Program." The stated purpose of this program is to
   establish a demonstration regarding the commercial feasibility and
   economic viability of private sector business operations involving the
   International Space Station and its related infrastructure. Section 434
   directs that NASA "shall establish and publish a price policy designed
   to eliminate price uncertainty for those planning to utilize the
   International Space Station and its related facilities for United
   States commercial use." It also stipulates that any receipts collected
   by NASA from the commercial use of the ISS "shall first be used to
   offset any costs incurred by NASA in support of the United States
   commercial use of the International Space Station. Any receipts
   collected in excess of the costs identified pursuant to the previous
   sentence may be retained by NASA for use without fiscal year limitation
   in promoting the commercial use of the International Space Station." In
   addition, NASA may waive part, or all, of the marginal cost for primary
   uses in the short run, in order to stimulate private investment during
   the formative period of business development.

   NASA has devised a pricing policy in response to this legislative
   direction that includes market-based pricing with a marginal cost
   floor, as outlined below.

   The following price structure and schedule benchmarks the marginal cost
   floor associated with the U.S. share of ISS resources and
   accommodations. The availability of resources and associated pricing is
   applicable only to ISS space services and not independent shuttle
   flights. These benchmarks are subject to change and will be updated
   periodically as operating experience grows.

                        International Space Station:
                      Price Structure and Schedule for
                      U.S. Resources and Accommodations
                         Released: February 28, 2000

   For background on ISS economic development and ISS pricing, review the
   following papers presented at the ISS Utilization Conference, Space
   Technology and Applications International Forum (STAIF-2000), February,
   2000:
     * "Economic Development of the International Space Station," Mark L.
       Uhran, Director, Space Utilization and Product Development, NASA
       Headquarters.
     * Pricing Policy, Structure and Schedule for US Resources and
       Accommodations on the International Space Station," Christopher J.
       Flaherty, Strategic Planning Specialist, NASA Headquarters.

   [ Make Comments | NASA Privacy Statement | Content Manager | Home ]
