http://www.stlucieco.gov/leisure/beaches.htm

                               [main_logo.gif]


   [blue_left.gif] Home    Visitor information    Search    Weather
   News [blue_right.gif]

          [blue_left.gif]

                                                        Quick Links

   Annual Report [cookbook56x80.jpg] Recipe book offer!
   Click book for details.
   Bid Solicitations
   Employment Opportunities
   Flash Introduction Movie Flash Introduction  Movie


       [green_white_left.gif]

                                                              Beaches
                                              [green_white_right.gif]

   St. Lucie County has many beautiful beaches for you to visit. Enjoy
   your own personal water sport interest from snorkeling to boogie
   boarding. So come out, have fun and cool down during those summer
   months.

   PUBLIC SWIMMING BEACHES

   Pepper Park Pepper Park - Guarded year around, ADA restrooms, wheel
   chair accessible from parking lot to boardwalk to beach, good diving,
   beach dives, Volley Ball, Basketball, Tennis Court, UDT/Seal Museum,
   ample parking, playground, and picnic area with grills.

   South Jetty - Guarded year around, Great fishing on jetty, Restaurants
   within walking distance (Theo's, Hurricane, Circle K), Three hotels
   within walking distance. Nice boardwalk with covered tables and
   seating.

   Jaycee Park South Beach Boardwalk - Guarded year around, ADA restrooms,
   Nice boardwalk, four Pavilions (two with tables and two with seats),
   Big bathrooms and showers.

   Jaycee Park - Guarded summer months only, Family orientated Park, boat
   ramps, Giant playground, plenty of Picnic areas (covered) with grills,
   ample parking, buoyed off swimming area, volley ball, tennis, racquet
   ball & basketball.

   Frederick Douglass Frederick Douglass - Guarded summer months only, ADA
   accessible from parking lot to boardwalk to beach, volley ball court,
   Horse back riding on untouched natural beach. Picnic areas with grills,
   very relaxing, good fishing, bathrooms and showers.

   Blind Creek - Unguarded, ADA accessible from parking lot to boardwalk
   to beach, great beach fishing, untouched beach, minimal parking.

   Walton Rocks - Unguarded, Untouched beach, bathrooms and showers, lots
   of parking, good fishing.

   Waveland Waveland - Guarded year around, ADA accessible only to
   boardwalk, vending machines, sitting area, good fishing (at posted
   areas), bathroom and showers. 22 miles of beach front.

   Kimberly Bergalis - Guarded summer months only, ADA accessible only to
   boardwalk, 1,200 foot long boardwalk, picnic areas (covered), multiple
   accesses to beach, plenty of parking, bathrooms and showers.

   Surfside - Guarded summer months only, a continuance of Kimberly
   Bergalis boardwalk with bathroom and showers, ADA accessible, one large
   covered picnic area, large grass play area with seven other covered
   picnic tables, grills are also present at picnic areas.

   Bear Point - Brand new boardwalk extension out into Indian River Lagoon
   and new Observatory Look Out to view beautiful lagoon, great fishing.
