http://nd.water.usgs.gov/index/about.html


   Link to USGS home page
     USGS Water Resources of North Dakota

   Who We Are

      The U.S. Geological Survey is the Nation's largest earth-sciences
      agency and has the responsibility within the Federal Government for
      providing hydrologic information and for appraising the Nation's water
      resources.

      Telephone numbers and e-mail addresses           North Dakota District
                               Organizational Chart

   What We Do

      Streamflow, water-level, water-quality, and water-use data are
      collected at numerous locations throughout the state. These hydrologic
   data along with other geologic data are used in research and hydrologic
   studies to describe the quantity, quality, and location of North
   Dakota's water resources. These hydrologic data and studies are used to
   provide flood warnings and forecasts, operate reservoirs, design
   bridges, dams, levees and floodways, develop and protect water supply
   sources, evaluate the effects of various actions on water quantity and
   quality, provide information for water-right claims, and many other
   uses.

   The collection, analysis, and interpretation of these data are done in
   cooperation with other federal, state, and local governmental agencies,
   universities, and research centers.

                        USGS Programs in North Dakota

Where We Are

                               District Office

                           U.S. Geological Survey
                            821 E. Interstate Ave
                           Bismarck, ND 58503-1199

                            Directions to Office



                             Field Headquarters

                           U.S. Geological Survey
                         Room 322, Federal Building
                             102 N Fourth Street
                         Grand Forks, ND 58203-3738

                            Directions to Office

                         Return to North Dakota Home


    U.S. Department of the Interior || U.S. Geological Survey
    Maintainer: Webmaster
    Last update: January 30, 2002
    Privacy Statement || Disclaimer
    URL: http://nd.water.usgs.gov/index/about.html
