http://www.epa.gov/labs21century/about/index.htm

     U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Labs for the 21st Century

     About Labs21

   Skip to main content

   Home
   what's new
   About Labs21
   Benefits
   Partnership Program
   Supporters
   Conference
   Training Tool Kit
   Join Labs 21
   Links

   Laboratory facilities represent an ever-expanding growth opportunity
   for advanced, environmentally preferred, building technologies. The
   typical laboratory uses far more energy and water per square foot than
   the typical office building due to intensive ventilation requirements
   and other health and safety concerns. Because the requirements of
   laboratory facilities differ so dramatically from those of other
   buildings, a clear need exists for an initiative exclusively targeting
   these facilities.

   With this in mind, EPA and DOE established the Labs21 Program. It
   consists of three components:
     * Labs21 Partnership Program
     * Training
     * Tool Kit

   The primary guiding principle of the Labs21 program is that improving
   the energy efficiency and environmental performance of a laboratory
   requires examining the entire facility from a holistic perspective.
   Adopting this perspective allows laboratory owners to improve the
   efficiency of the entire facility, rather than focusing on specific
   laboratory components. As Labs21 participants understand, improving the
   efficiency of individual components without examining their relation to
   the entire system can eliminate opportunities to make other more
   significant efficiency improvements.

   The following links provide additional background information:
     * The Labs21 Approach. This unique perspective involves evaluating a
       laboratory facility from a comprehensive standpoint rather than
       focusing on specific building components.
     * Background Information. Review a variety of background materials on
       the Labs21 program.
     * The Labs21 Team. Meet the dynamic group of laboratory experts who
       stand ready to provide guidance and insight for your organization.

   If you have any questions about the Labs21 program, including how to
   become involved, please contact labs21@erg.com. You will receive a
   prompt response from a member of the Labs21 Team.


   EPA Home | OARM Home | EPA Search | Comments

   Last updated 1/23/02
   http://www.epa.gov/oaintrnt/21century/about/index.htm
