http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/intro/hazmat.html

   Jump to Page Content

   NOAA OR&R Home / About Us

   About Us

                                                                 Home Page

                                                                Site Index

                                                                  About Us

                                                            Oil Spill Aids

                                                             Chemical Aids

                                                         Coastal Chemicals

                                                                  For Kids

                                                             Image Gallery

                                                        Available Products

                                                               Site Search

   Scientists in NOAA's Office of Response and Restoration (NOAA OR&R)
     * respond to dozens of spills of oil and other hazardous materials
       each year.
     * help emergency planners prepare for potential accidents.
     * create software, databases, and other tools to help people respond
       to hazardous materials accidents.
     * work to find remedies for environmental damage caused by hazardous
       waste sites in coastal areas.
     * assess injury to coastal resources from releases of oil, other
       hazardous materials, vessel groundings, and abandoned vessels, and
       pursue restoration from those responsible for the harm.

   You're welcome to contact us by telephone, email, or mail.

   To learn more about our work, read about some of our current projects,
   review the activities of our main divisions, check the listing of
   upcoming training we provide, take a guided tour, or review recent
   media coverage:
     * Galapagos in Peril March 2001 article in "Coast Guard" magazine
       describing our spill response work in the Galapagos Islands (see
       also the Coast Guard's special web page on the Galapagos Islands
       oil spill). We received an award for our Galapagos work.
     * NOAA "Warroom" Scrambles to Keep Ahead of the Oil Spills Seattle
       Times article (2/14/99) describing our oil spill response work.
     * 10 Years Later, Debate Still Rages Over the Effects of the Exxon
       Valdez Oil Spill Seattle Times article (3/21/99) discussing our
       biological monitoring studies of the effects of the Exxon Valdez
       oil spill.
     * Hazmat High Government Technology article (1/98) describing how
       high school students in Chelsea, Massachusetts, use our CAMEO
       software to help out with hazardous chemical emergency planning.

At Other Web Sites

     * Damage Assessment and Restoration Program Learn how we and our
       colleagues assess damage and restore coastal and marine resources
       injured by oil spills, hazardous materials releases, and ship
       groundings.

   Revised: January 14, 2002
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
