http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/hill0418staff.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report


                              CAPITOL AMBITIONS

                                  The Hill

                          April 18, 2001, Wednesday

   By Cheryl Weisman & Matt Stiles
   CHENEY CHOOSES. House Policy Chairman Christopher Cox (R-Calif.),
   recently hired three staffers and announced that another aide is
   leaving the office to work for Vice President Dick Cheney.
   Jonathan Burks, a Policy Committee analyst, is departing to serve as
   special assistant to the vice president, making him the third Cox aide
   to leave to work for Cheney. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, Cheney's chief of
   staff, and C. Dean McGrath, Cheney's deputy chief of staff, had served
   Cox as Select Committee on National Security staff counsel and chief of
   staff, respectively.
   Kevin Logan joins the staff as a legislative assistant, handling
   environment, taxes and transportation issues. A native of Newport
   Beach, Calif., Logan has a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and
   a master's degree in international relations history from the London
   School of Economics.
   Daniel Schwartz will be Cox's staff assistant and will also manage the
   legislative correspondence system. A graduate of Vanderbilt University,
   Schwartz has worked and studied in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
   Rebekah Eckhoff is the Policy Committee's new executive assistant. A
   native of San Diego, Eckhoff is a recent graduate of Dordt College in
   Sioux Center, Iowa.
