http://ohsr.od.nih.gov/mpa/

                      Assurance of Compliance With DHHS
                   Regulations for the Protection of Human
                   Subjects (45 CFR 46)
                   Approved: May 1, 1998

                               Home Help Admin

                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

       I. PREAMBLE
      II. DEFINITIONS, APPLICABILITY AND GENERAL INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES

       A. Definitions
       B. Applicability

    1. Activities covered under this policy
    2. Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center
    3. Exemptions to this policy

    C. General Institutional Policies

   III. IMPLEMENTATION

    A. Responsibilities of the Deputy Director for Intramural Research
       (DDIR)
    B. Responsibilities of the Deputy Director for Extramural Research
       (DDER)
    C. Responsibilities of Research Investigators, Laboratory/Branch
       Chiefs, Clinical Directors, and Scientific Directors

    1. Determination of human subjects involvement
    2. Determination of human subjects research activities that are exempt
       from 45 CFR 46
    3. Preparation of a protocol
    4. Review by Laboratory/Branch Chief, Clinical Director, and/or
       Scientific Director
    5. Submission of protocols to the appropriate IRB
    6. Attending IRB meetings
    7. Complying with IRB decisions
    8. Informed consent
    9. General requirements for informed consent
   10. Providing additional elements of informed consent
   11. Documentation of informed consent
   12. Retention of signed consent documents
   13. Continuing IRB review
   14. Procedures for terminating a protocol
   15. Submission of reports of unanticipated problems and unexpected
       serious harm
   16. Amendments to approved research activities
   17. Protocols involving Investigational New Drugs or Devices or
       radiation
   18. Reporting of noncompliance

    D. Responsibilities of the Director of the Clinical Center
    E. The Human Subjects Research Advisory Committee
    F. Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) - Structure

    1. Establishment of IRBs
    2. Composition

    G. IRB Authorities and Responsibilities

    1. IRB review of research protocols
    2. Documentation of informed consent
    3. Waiver or alteration of the general requirements of informed
       consent
    4. Observation of the consent process and the research
    5. Continuing review
    6. Authority to modify, suspend or terminate approval of research

    H. General IRB Operating Procedures

    1. Determination of review procedures
    2. Review of collaborative or cooperative research activities
    3. Expedited review
    4. Full IRB review
    5. IRB notification to research investigators in writing of its
       actions
    6. IRB records

    I. The Office of Human Subjects Research (OHSR)

    1. Roles and responsibilities
    2. Institutional determinations concerning exemptions to 45 CFR 46
    3. Conduct of educational activities
    4. Conduct of inquiries/investigations
    5. Review of NIH practices and procedures for the protection of human
       subjects
    6. Policy formation concerning human subjects research
    7. Collaborative and cooperative research activities
    8. Reporting requirements

    J. Cooperative Protocol Research Programs

   Appendix A: List of NIH components
   Appendix B: List of NIH standing affiliates
   Appendix C: Institute IRB rosters
   Appendix D: MPA summary and line diagram
   Appendix E: The Belmont Report
   Appendix F: 45 CFR 46
   Appendix G: Activities exempt from coverage under 45 CFR 46
   Appendix H: OPRR Reports: Emergency Medical Care
   Appendix I: DHHS Policies regarding HIV research
   Appendix J: Activities for expedited review procedures
   Appendix K: Cooperative Amendment, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center
   _______________________________________________________________________

    I. PREAMBLE
       The mission of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is to
       improve human health through biomedical and behavioral research.
       The NIH is committed to: (1) conducting biomedical and behavioral
       research according to high scientific and ethical standards, and
       (2) administering and regulating these activities in a manner that
       promotes both the rights and welfare of human subjects and its
       research mandate.
       In its conduct of research, the NIH is guided by the ethical
       principles regarding all research involving human subjects in the
       report of the National Commission for the Protection of Human
       Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research entitled "The
       Belmont Report - Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the
       Protection of Human Subjects of Research" (Appendix E). These
       ethical principles have been incorporated into Federal regulations
       45 CFR 46, entitled Protection of Human Subjects (Appendix F).
       The Deputy Director for Intramural Research (DDIR), on behalf of
       the Director, NIH, hereby gives assurance, as specified below, that
       the NIH will comply with the Department of Health and Human
       Services (DHHS) regulations for the protection of human subjects,
       45 CFR 46.

   II. DEFINITIONS, APPLICABILITY, AND GENERAL INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES

    A. Definitions

   The following definitions are used in this Assurance.

    1. "Research" means a systematic investigation, including research
       development, testing and evaluation, designed to contribute to
       generalizable knowledge. (45 CFR 46.102 (d)).


    2. "Human Subject " means a living individual about whom an
       investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research
       obtains (1) data through intervention or interaction with the
       individual, or (2) identifiable private information. Some clinical
       and basic research activities with human tissues (i.e., blood and
       tissue samples, etc.) may also constitute research with human
       subjects. (45 CFR 46.102 (f)).


    3. "Collaboration " exists if the NIH participant expects "something
       in return" as a result of having participated in a research
       activity. "Something in return" could include data, authorship on a
       publication, samples, or even patent rights. The NIH views
       authorship as prima facie evidence of collaboration. Collaborative
       activities may include but are not limited to : the collection of
       specimens, visits to institutions to perform research activities or
       clinical work, exchange of information containing personal
       identifiers, preliminary data-collection activities involving human
       subjects, and substantive intellectual contributions to research
       techniques, protocol design, or interpretation of data. Even remote
       participation--such as supplying important reagents, performing
       tests, or analyzing data--may constitute collaboration. Not all
       collaborations are defined in advance, and there may be subsequent
       differences of opinion about whether collaboration existed or
       perhaps developed during the course of research activities. In
       unclear cases, investigators should contact their IRB Chair or the
       Office of Human Subjects Research. In some cases further objective
       third-party review may be necessary (NIH definition not found in 45
       CFR 46).

    B. Applicability

    1. This Assurance is applicable to all research activities that, in
       whole or part, involve human subjects if:

    a. the research is conducted or supported by the Intramural Research
       Program (IRP)* of the NIH, or


    b. the research is conducted by any employee of the NIH in connection
       with his/her institutional duties, regardless of the site of the
       activity, or


    c. the research is conducted in a facility of the NIH, or


    d. the research involves the use of any of the NIH IRP non-public
       information systems or databases to identify or contact human
       subjects or prospective subjects.

    2. Certain cooperative research, including research conducted at the
       Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, will be conducted in
       accordance with amendments attached to this Assurance (Appendix K).
       Such amendments will be updated as appropriate and submitted to
       OPRR for approval.


    3. Activities in which the only involvement of human subjects is in
       one or more of the categories listed in 45 CFR 46.101(b) (Appendix
       G) are exempt from coverage under this Assurance. Procedures for
       determination and documentation of exempt status are outlined below
       (see III.C.2 and III.I.2.)

    C. General Institutional Policies

    1. It is the policy of the NIH to respect and safeguard the rights and
       welfare of human subjects involved in its research activities.


    2. The NIH acknowledges that it bears responsibility for the
       performance of all research involving human subjects covered by
       this Assurance, including continuing compliance with pertinent
       Federal, state or local laws, as they may relate to such research.


    3. The NIH ensures that all researchers newly employed in its
       Intramural Research Program (IRP), and extramural staff involved in
       the planning, conduct and program oversight of research involving
       human subjects, complete the computer-based training program
       entitled "The Protection of Human Research Subjects at the NIH."


    4. It is the policy of the NIH that its IRBs will review only research
       which has been reviewed by the appropriate Institute or Center (IC)
       and found to be scientifically meritorious, well-designed, and in
       keeping with ethical guidelines, program relevance and public
       responsibility.


    5. The DDIR, acting on behalf of the Director, NIH, is the
       institutional official responsible for implementation of the NIH's
       Multiple Project Assurance of Compliance (NIH MPA). The Office of
       Human Subjects Research (OHSR) develops policies and procedures,
       and provides education, guidance and assistance to NIH research
       investigators and others in conducting human subjects research in
       conformance with the terms and conditions of the NIH MPA and the
       Federal regulations (45 CFR 46). The Director, OHSR reports to the
       DDIR.


    6. The NIH, in cooperation with the Institutes and Centers (ICs),
       establishes and maintains Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). At
       the NIH, IRBs are responsible for the prospective review and
       approval of research activities involving human subjects. Their
       primary mandate is to protect the rights and welfare of human
       research subjects. The composition and operation of each IRB will
       conform to the terms and conditions of 45 CFR 46.


    7. Activities in which the only involvement of human subjects is in
       one or more of the categories listed in 45 CFR 46.101(b) (Appendix
       G) will be submitted by NIH researchers to NIH's Office of Human
       Subjects Research (OHSR) for determination and documentation of
       exemption from the requirement for IRB review and approval (see
       III.C.2 and III. I. 2.).


    8. It is the policy of the NIH that, except for those categories of
       research determined by OHSR to be exempt from the requirement for
       IRB review and approval (see 7., above), no research activity
       covered by this Assurance will begin before:

    a. it has been reviewed and approved by an IRB and the DDIR, or his
       designee (IC Director, Scientific Director, or Clinical Director),


    b. the informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally
       authorized representative has been obtained, unless this
       requirement has been altered or waived by an IRB in accord with 45
       CFR 46.116(d), and


    c. IRB review and approval has been documented so that it may be
       entered into an appropriate NIH database(s).

    9. The NIH will provide appropriate additional safeguards in research
       that involves: (1) fetuses, pregnant women, or human in vitro
       fertilization (see 45 CFR 46 Subpart B), (2) prisoners (see 45 CFR
       46 Subpart C), (3) children (see 45 CFR 46 Subpart D), (4) the
       cognitively impaired, or (5) other potentially vulnerable subjects
       such as those who are economically or educationally disadvantaged.


   10. As a means of safeguarding the rights and welfare of human
       subjects, the NIH will encourage continuing constructive
       communication and education among the OHSR, the Director, Clinical
       Center (CC), the IRBs and their allied administrative personnel,
       research investigators, clinical care staff, other institutional
       officials and research subjects.


   11. When research is conducted in the CC, or other NIH clinical
       research sites, short term medical care will be provided for injury
       resulting from participation in research.


   12. Each IC will provide appropriate resources to its IRB to assure
       proper functioning and record-keeping in conformance with the NIH
       MPA and 45 CFR 46.


   13. The OHSR will periodically assess IRBs' practices, procedures and
       record-keeping.


   14. The NIH MPA will be made available to NIH investigators and
       personnel conducting and/or reviewing human subjects research
       activities.


   15. The NIH will adhere to the guidelines set forth in the May, 1991
       Office for Protection from Research Risks (OPRR) Reports,
       "Emergency Medical Care" (Appendix H).


   16. The NIH will adhere to applicable DHHS Policies regarding HIV
       research (Appendix I).


   17. The NIH-IRP will adhere to "The Guidelines on the Inclusion of
       Women and Minorities as Subjects in Clinical Research." (59 Federal
       Register 11146-11151, efffective March 9, 1994.)

   III. IMPLEMENTATION

    A. Responsibilities of the Deputy Director for Intramural Research
       (DDIR)

    1. The DDIR, on behalf of the Director, NIH, assumes overall
       responsibility for implementation of this Assurance.


    2. All NIH IRP employees conducting or supporting research involving
       human subjects are responsible for ensuring that the rights and
       welfare of human subjects are protected. The DDIR will ensure that
       NIH intramural staff receive appropriate education and training
       regarding the requirements of the NIH MPA.


    3. Research approved by an NIH IRB is subject to further review and
       institutional approval by the DDIR (45 CFR 46.112). In determining
       if the NIH shall sponsor or support such research, the DDIR will
       take into account program relevance and public responsibility. The
       DDIR may delegate this review and approval authority to other
       appropriate NIH officials (IC Directors, Scientific Directors, or
       Clinical Directors).

    B. Responsibilities of the Deputy Director for Extramural Research
       (DDER)

    1. The DDER will facilitate compliance with the NIH MPA for all human
       subject research conducted by NIH extramural program staff.


    2. The DDER will ensure that NIH extramural staff receive appropriate
       education and training regarding the requirements of the NIH MPA.


    3. The DDER will coordinate extramural human subject policy and
       education efforts with those of the OHSR, where necessary, to
       ensure consistent protection for human subjects through the NIH.

    C. Responsibilities of Research Investigators, Laboratory/Branch
       Chiefs, Clinical Directors and Scientific Directors

    1. Determination of human subjects involvement

    a. Research investigators are responsible for determining whether
       their research activities will involve human subjects as defined in
       45 CFR 46.102 (see II. A.).


    b. When it is not clear whether their research activities will involve
       human subjects, investigators shall seek assistance from the OHSR
       or the Chair of the appropriate IRB in making this determination.


    c. If research activities that were originally determined not to
       involve human subjects change such that human subjects become
       involved, research investigators are responsible for obtaining the
       required official approvals (see III. C. 2. and 3., below).

    2. Determination of human subjects research activities that are exempt
       from 45 CFR 46

    a. Research investigators make the preliminary determination as to
       whether or not the proposed human subjects research activity is
       exempt from 45 CFR 46 (see Appendix G).


    b. If the investigator determines that the activity is exempt, she/he
       will provide the necessary document (OHSR form "Request for Review
       of Research Activity") to the OHSR for the final institutional
       decision concerning exempt status (see III. I. 2.).


    c. If the investigator or the OHSR determines that the activity is not
       exempt, the investigator will write, as appropriate, a description
       of the research or a research protocol (see III. C. 3.) for
       submission to the appropriate NIH IRB.

    3. Preparation of a protocol

    a. The Principal Investigator (PI) of a research activity is
       responsible for the design, conduct and monitoring of that
       activity.


    b. The PI shall provide a complete written description of and
       rationale for the proposed research design. At the NIH, this
       document is called a protocol. In addition, the protocol shall
       include a discussion of the human subjects protection issues that
       are relevant to the conduct of the study. The protocol shall
       address, at a minimum, the risks to subjects, any procedures that
       are experimental, the potential benefits (if any) to subjects, the
       anticipated number of subjects to be studied, and the consent
       process to be used. The protocol shall include a copy of the
       proposed consent form(s). When potentially vulnerable subjects will
       be enrolled (children, prisoners, cognitively impaired,
       institutionalized or critically/terminally ill individuals), a
       discussion of additional safeguards is required.


    c. When appropriate, the PI shall identify in the protocol if any
       Principal or Associate Investigator involved in the protocol has an
       equity or consultative relationship with a non-NIH entity related
       to the protocol which might be considered a real or an apparent
       conflict of interest.

    4. Review by Laboratory/Branch Chief, Clinical Director and/or
       Scientific Director


   Laboratory/Branch Chiefs, Clinical Directors and/or Scientific
       Directors, through appropriate procedures established within their
       respective ICs, are responsible for the review of protocols, taking
       into account scientific merit, ethical considerations, program
       relevance and public responsibility. Protocols without prior IC
       certification of such review will not be accepted by an NIH IRB for
       consideration.

    5. Submission of protocols to the appropriate IRB

   After recommendation by the Laboratory/Branch Chief, and the Clinical
       Director and/or Scientific Director, and/or other IC officials as
       appropriate, the Principal Investigator (PI) is responsible for
       submitting the protocol with an NIH-1195-1 form to the IRB in
       his/her IC, except as follows:

    a. If the intramural or extramural NIH PI who is conducting research
       is an employee of the CC, or an IC which does not have an IRB,
       she/he shall submit the protocol to the IRB most closely related to
       the subject matter of the protocol.


    b. Protocols involving investigators from more than one IC shall be
       reviewed by at least one IRB, generally that of the PI's IC.


    c. IRBs shall take care to review protocols submitted by Clinical
       Directors, Scientific Directors and IC Directors in a manner that
       will avoid real or apparent conflict of interest. IRBs have the
       option to request that such protocols be reviewed by an IRB of
       another IC.

    6. Attending IRB meetings


   When invited by the IRB Chair, investigators are encouraged to attend
       IRB meetings in order to facilitate the review of their protocols.


    7. Complying with IRB decisions


   Research investigators are responsible for complying with all IRB
       decisions and stipulations and for responding in writing to IRB
       stipulations and recommendations within 30 days.


    8. Informed consent

    a. Research investigators are responsible for fully informing the
       subject or the subject's legally authorized representative in
       accordance with 45 CFR 46.116, and for ensuring that no human
       subject will be involved in the research before giving informed
       consent.


    b. Unless otherwise authorized by an IRB, research investigators are
       responsible for ensuring that legally effective informed consent
       shall:

    1. be obtained from the subject or the subject's legally authorized
       representative;


    2. be explained in a language and a manner understandable to the
       subject or the representative;


    3. be obtained in circumstances that offer the subject or the
       representative sufficient opportunity to consider whether the
       subject should participate; and


    4. not include exculpatory language through which the subject or the
       representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the
       subject's legal rights; nor to release or appear to release the
       research investigators, the sponsor, the institution or its agents
       from liability.

    9. General requirements for informed consent

   Unless otherwise authorized by an IRB (see III. G. 3.), research
       investigators shall provide the following information to each
       subject:

    a. A statement that the study involves research; an explanation of the
       purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's
       participation; a description of the procedures to be followed, and
       identification of any procedures that are experimental.


    b. A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to
       the subject, an estimate (if available) of their likelihood, and,
       if appropriate, a description of the steps that will be taken to
       prevent, mitigate, or treat them.


    c. A description of any benefits to the subject or to others that may
       reasonably be expected from the research.


    d. A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of
       treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject.


    e. A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality
       of records identifying the subject will be maintained. When
       appropriate, the statement shall include who may have access to
       research records (e.g., FDA, non-NIH research sponsor).


    f. For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation
       regarding any compensation and any medical treatments that are
       available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or
       where further information may be obtained.


    g. An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent
       questions about the research and the research subject's rights, and
       whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the
       subject.


    h. A statement that participation is voluntary and that refusal to
       participate or discontinuing participation at any time will involve
       no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise
       entitled.

   10. Providing additional elements of informed consent

   When deemed appropriate by an IRB, the research investigators shall
       provide one or more of the following additional elements of
       information to each subject:

    a. A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve
       risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is
       or may become pregnant) that are currently unforeseeable.


    b. Anticipated circumstances in which the subject's participation may
       be terminated by the research investigator without regard to the
       subject's consent.


    c. Any additional costs to the subject that may result from
       participation in the research.


    d. The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the
       research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by
       the subject.


    e. A statement that significant new findings developed during the
       course of the research that may relate to the subject's willingness
       to continue participation will be provided to the subject.


    f. The approximate number of subjects involved in the study, and


    g. When appropriate, a statement concerning an investigator's
       potential financial or other conflict of interest in the conduct of
       the research protocol.

   11. Documentation of informed consent.

    a. Research investigators shall be responsible for ensuring that
       informed consent is recorded by the use of a written consent
       document approved by an IRB and signed by the subject or the
       subject's legally authorized representative, unless this
       requirement is specifically waived by an IRB in accord with 45 CFR
       46.117(c) (see III. G. 3.).


    b. Research investigators shall ensure that each person signing the
       written consent document is given a copy.


    c. Research investigators may use one of two consent documents;

    1. A written consent document that embodies the elements of informed
       consent required by 45 CFR 46.116 (see III. C. 8. and 9.). This
       form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized
       representative, but in any event, the research investigators shall
       give either the subject or the representative adequate opportunity
       to read the document before signing it, or;


    2. A "short form" written consent document stating that the elements
       of informed consent required by 45 CFR 46.116 have been presented
       orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized
       representative. When the "short form" is used, research
       investigators shall ensure that:

    i. the written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the
       representative receives the prior approval of the IRB;


   ii. the short form is signed by the subject or the representative;


   iii. a witness attends the oral presentation;


   iv. the witness signs both the short form and a copy of a written
       summary of the oral presentation;


    v. the person obtaining consent signs a copy of the summary, and


   vi. a copy of both the short form and summary is given to the subject
       or the representative.

   12. Retention of signed consent documents

    a. For research conducted in the CC, research investigators are
       responsible for placing original, signed consent documents into
       each subject's permanent CC medical record.


    b. In cases where subject accrual occurs elsewhere, signed consent
       documents will be retained according to the collaborating
       institution's Multiple Project Assurance or other OPRR-approved
       assurance covering the research to be conducted.

   13. Continuing IRB review

    a. Each IRB shall conduct continuing review of approved research
       activities at least once per year or at shorter intervals
       appropriate to the degree of risk (see III. G. 5.).


    b. To facilitate continuing review, the PI is responsible for timely
       submission of requested forms/reports to the Chair of the IRB that
       previously reviewed the protocol. Each PI shall submit (i) the
       necessary forms, including the current consent document, (ii) a
       brief narrative to the IRB indicating the experience with the
       research, including subject demographics, and (iii) the reason(s)
       for continuing the study.


    c. The IRB may require that a protocol be rewritten to consolidate
       amendments.


    d. On the due date, if IRB approval of continuing review has not been
       completed, subject accrual into the protocol is suspended. If the
       PI fails to submit the continuing review materials to the IRB
       within one month after the due date, the protocol may be
       terminated. Reactivation of the protocol requires submission of a
       new protocol to the IRB.

   14. Procedures for terminating a protocol


   When a PI terminates a protocol, the appropriate forms (NIH-1195-1)
       should be submitted to the IRB accompanied by a short narrative
       explanation of the reasons for termination, the research results of
       the protocol, and the demographics of the enrolled subjects.

   15. Submission of reports of unanticipated problems and unexpected
       serious harm

   The PI is responsible for reporting promptly (1) any unanticipated
       problems involving risks to subjects or others, or (2) unexpected
       serious harm to subjects and others. Written reports shall be
       submitted for evaluation to:

    a. the appropriate IRB (see III. G. 6. a., b.),


    b. the IC Clinical Director,


    c. the Director, CC, if the protocol is conducted in the CC, and


    d. the FDA and/or non-NIH sponsor, as necessary.


    e. OHSR

   16. Amendments to approved research activities

    a. Changes in research activities during the period for which IRB
       approval has already been given shall not be initiated by research
       investigators without prior IRB review and approval, except where
       necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject.


    b. Research investigators are responsible for reporting proposed
       changes in previously approved research activities through the
       Laboratory/Branch Chief, Clinical Director and/or Scientific
       Director to the appropriate IRB.

   17. Protocols involving Investigational New Drugs or Devices or
       radiation

    a. Protocols using test articles (i.e., drugs, devices, biologics) or
       proposing new uses for approved test articles must comply with the
       Food and Drug Administration requirements for Investigational New
       Drugs/Devices (INDs/IDEs).


    b. Research activities requiring the administration of radiation to
       human subjects must be approved by a Radiation Safety Committee
       before final institutional approval of a protocol.

   18. Reporting of noncompliance.

   Research investigators, Laboratory/Branch Chiefs, Clinical Directors
       and/or Scientific Directors are responsible for reporting promptly
       to the OHSR and the appropriate IRB any serious or continuing
       noncompliance with the requirements of 45 CFR 46, this Assurance or
       the determinations of an IRB. Such reports shall also be made to
       the Director, CC if the research activity is conducted in or by an
       employee of the CC.

    D. Responsibilities of the Director of the Clinical Center

    1. As an IC Director, the Director of the CC exercises all protocol
       review and approval authorities delegated to him/her by the DDIR
       per III. A. 3. and III. C. 5. a.


    2. Protocols to be conducted in the CC that have been approved by an
       IRB and the appropriate IC official (III. A. 3.), are subject to
       further administrative review and approval by the Director, CC.
       This review will take into account the in-house resources necessary
       to implement the study and assures review and approval by other
       appropriate groups (e.g., NIH Radiation Safety Committee).


    3. The Director, CC will assure maintenance of a central database of
       all approved CC research protocols and files relating to the IRBs.
       The central files shall include but are not limited to official
       file copies of protocols and their approval sheets, documentation
       of continuing review, and IRB meeting minutes.


    4. The Clinical Center (CC) administrative review and approval is
       generally completed in a timely fashion. However, there may be
       exceptional circumstances (e.g., a subject is waiting to be
       enrolled in the research study) in which any further delay would
       cause unwarranted hardship. In such circumstances, the Director, CC
       may delegate to the Deputy Director for Clinical Care, CC the
       authority to approve enrollment of a subject. Such approval may be
       given only when a protocol has received all other necessary
       approvals (e.g., IRB, IC Clinical Director, Radiation Safety
       Committee) except that of the Director, CC.

    E. The Human Subjects Research Advisory Committee (HSRAC)

    1. The primary responsibility of the HSRAC is to advise the DDIR on
       policies and procedures regarding the conduct of human subjects
       research in the NIH IRP.


    2. Membership shall include: the DDIR (Chair), the Director, OHSR
       (Executive Secretary), all IRB Chairs, the Director, CC, and the
       Chief of the Department of Clinical Bioethics, CC.


    3. At the discretion of the DDIR, the HSRAC may serve as the IRB of
       record for the review, approval and oversight of any research
       activity involving human subjects covered by this Assurance. In the
       event that the HSRAC shall serve as an IRB, its membership shall be
       appropriately augmented to meet the requirements of 45 CFR 46, and
       a membership list will be provided to the OPRR for approval.


    4. HSRAC membership lists and meeting minutes will be maintained by
       the OHSR.

    F. Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) - Structure

    1. Establishment of IRBs

    a. Subject to the approval of the DDIR, it is the responsibility of
       each IC having a significant volume of research activity involving
       human subjects to establish an IRB of persons with varying
       backgrounds to promote complete review and approval of such IC
       research activities. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified
       through the experience and expertise of its members, and the
       diversity of the members' backgrounds, including consideration of
       race, gender, and cultural backgrounds and sensitivity to such
       issues as community attitudes, to foster respect for its advice and
       counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects.
       In addition to possessing the professional competence necessary to
       review and approve specific research activities, the IRB shall be
       able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in light
       of (1) ethical principles set forth in The Belmont Report (Appendix
       E), (2) requirements of Federal regulations for the protection of
       human subjects (45 CFR 46, Appendix F), (3) applicable Federal,
       local and state law, and (4) standards of professional conduct and
       practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in
       these areas.


    b. Investigators from the Clinical Center and other NIH components
       that generate an insufficient quantity of research protocols to
       warrant their own IRB shall submit their protocols to the IRB most
       closely related to the subject matter of the proposed study.

    2. Composition

    a. Each IRB shall have at least 5 members.


    b. No IRB shall consist entirely of men, entirely of women or entirely
       of members of one profession.


    c. Each IRB shall include at least one member (e.g., lawyer, ethicist,
       cleric) whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas, and at
       least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the Public
       Health Service, and who is not part of the immediate family of an
       affiliated person.


    d. The Chair of the IRB shall be recommended by the IC Clinical
       Director, in consultation with the IC Scientific Director, and
       appointed by the DDIR. IC, Scientific and Clinical Directors may
       not serve as IRB Chairs. Ordinarily, the IRB Chair shall serve for
       two years, but the appointment may be renewed.


    e. IRB members shall be recommended by the IC Clinical Director, in
       consultation with the IC Scientific Director, and appointed by the
       DDIR for one- to three-year renewable terms.


    f. An IRB Chair may appoint ad hoc members with competence in special
       areas to assist in the review of complex issues that require
       expertise beyond that available on the IRB. These individuals may
       not vote with the IRB.

    G. IRB Authorities and Responsibilities

    1. IRB review of research protocols.

    a. The IRB has the responsibility and authority to review and approve,
       require modification in, or disapprove new protocols, or amendments
       to previously approved protocols.


    b. The IRB shall approve research based on its determination that the
       following requirements are satisfied:

    1. Risks to subjects are minimized

    i. by using procedures that are consistent with sound research design
       and that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and


   ii. whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed
       on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.

    2. Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated
       benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of knowledge that
       may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and
       benefits, the IRB shall consider only those risks and benefits that
       may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and
       benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not
       participating in the research). Future applications of the
       knowledge gained from the research are not among those research
       risks that fall within the purview of the IRB's responsibility.


    3. Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the
       IRB shall take into account the purposes of the research, the
       setting in which the research will be conducted, and the population
       from which subjects will be recruited. IRBs shall place special
       emphasis on the inclusion of minorities and both genders in study
       populations so that research findings can be applied to all persons
       at risk for the disease, disorder or condition under study. The IRB
       shall review and approve advertisements and recruitment letters for
       subjects.


    4. Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or
       the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance
       with, and to the extent required by 45 CFR 46.116 (see III. G. 2.).


    5. Informed consent will be appropriately documented, in accordance
       with, and to the extent required by 45 CFR 46.117 (see III. C.
       11.).


    6. Where appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provisions for
       monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects
       including, if necessary, by establishment of a Data and Safety
       Monitoring Board.


    7. Where appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the
       privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.


    8. When appropriate, review and approval by other required groups
       (e.g., NIH Radiation Safety Committee) is under way.



       Documentation of informed consent

    a. The IRB shall require documentation of informed consent consistent
       with 45 CFR 46.117 (see III. C. 11) by use of a written consent
       document approved by the IRB and signed by the subject or the
       subject's legally authorized representative.


    b. In accord with 45 CFR 46.117(c), an IRB may waive the requirement
       for a signed consent document for some or all subjects, if the IRB
       determines that:

    1. The only record linking the subject and the research would be the
       consent document and the principal risk would be potential harm
       resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject will be
       asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject
       with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern; or


    2. The research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects
       and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally
       required outside the research context.

   When the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may require the
       research investigator to provide subjects with a written statement
       regarding the research.

    3. Waiver or alteration of the general requirements of informed
       consent

   The IRB may approve a consent procedure which does not include, or
       which alters, some or all of the general requirements for informed
       consent set forth in 45 CFR 46.116 (see III. C. 8., 9.) or waive
       the requirements to obtain consent provided the IRB finds and
       documents that:

    a. The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects (as
       defined in 45 CFR 46);


    b. The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and
       welfare of the subjects;


    c. The research could not practicably be carried out without the
       waiver or alteration; and


    d. Whenever appropriate, the subjects will be provided with additional
       pertinent information after participation.

    4. Observation of the consent process and the research


   Each IRB shall have the authority to observe or to have a third party
       observe the consent process and the research.

    5. Continuing review

    a. Each IRB shall conduct continuing review of approved research at
       least once a year or at shorter intervals appropriate to the degree
       of risk (see III. C. 13. a., b.)

    1. Each PI will submit (i) the necessary forms, including the current
       consent document, (ii) a brief narrative to the IRB indicating the
       experience with the research, including subject demographics, and
       (iii) the reason(s) for continuing the study.


    2. In addition, each IRB may require that a protocol be rewritten to
       consolidate amendments. The frequency of this consolidation will be
       mandated by the IRB.



     Research protocols that required full IRB review initially shall
   require full IRB review for continuation.

    c. The PI has 30 days to respond to the IRB's recommendations and/or
       stipulations.

    6. Authority to modify, suspend or terminate approval of research

    a. Each IRB shall have the authority to modify, suspend or terminate
       approval of research that:

    1. has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects, or


    2. is not being conducted in accordance with 45 CFR 46 or the IRB's
       decisions, conditions and requirements.

    b. Whenever an IRB suspends or terminates approval of research for
       reasons listed in a. above, the IRB Chair shall report the decision
       in writing to:

    1. the PI,


    2. the IC Clinical Director, or Scientific Director, as appropriate,


    3. the OHSR, and,


    4. the Director, CC, if the research is conducted in or by an employee
       of the CC.

    H. General IRB Operating Procedures

    1. Determination of review procedures

    a. The IRB Chair shall determine whether the research protocol meets
       the criteria necessary for an expedited review process.


    b. The IRB Chair refers all research protocols to either full
       committee review or expedited review.

    2. Review of collaborative or cooperative research activities

    a. Documentation of non-NIH IRB approval for collaborative or
       cooperative human research activities being conducted at NIH and
       other institutions holding Multiple Project Assurances (MPAs) will
       be maintained by the IRB and will be available to the OHSR on
       request.


    b. OPRR negotiation of a Single Project Assurance (SPA) or other
       appropriate assurance shall be requested by the IRB Chair through
       the OHSR.


    c. The IRB Chair shall obtain the approval of OHSR if she/he
       determines that another institution's OPRR-approved IRB is better
       suited to serve as the primary review body (see III. I. 7.). OHSR
       will determine whether reliance on the non-NIH IRB is appropriate
       and will obtain the required documentation and OPRR approval.

    3. Expedited review

    a. The IRB Chair may use the expedited review procedure:

    1. to review minor changes in previously approved research during the
       period for which approval is authorized, or


    2. to review research which involves no more than minimal risk to
       subjects and in which the only involvement of human subjects will
       be in one or more of the categories listed in Appendix J.

    b. Expedited review may be conducted by the IRB Chair or by one or
       more of the experienced IRB members designated by the Chair.


    c. The IRB Chair or member(s) conducting the expedited review may:

    1. exercise all the authorities of an IRB except that the reviewer(s)
       may not disapprove the research. Any research that would have been
       disapproved shall be referred to the full committee.


    2. refer research protocols to the full committee whenever the
       reviewer(s) judges that full committee review is warranted.

    d. Protocols reviewed and approved by the expedited review procedure:

    1. require subsequent approval by the appropriate IC official
       consistent with III. A. 3.;


    2. must be entered into the appropriate IRP NIH database(s) (see II.
       C.8.c., and III. D. 3.);


    3. are subject to continuing review by the IRB (see III. C. 13. and
       III. G. 5.).

    e. When the expedited review procedure is used, the IRB Chair, or
       member(s) conducting the review, shall, at the next convened
       meeting, inform the IRB members of, and document in the IRB
       minutes, research protocols which have been approved by the
       expedited review procedure.

    4. Full IRB review

    a. Meetings shall be called by the Chair as often as required to
       accomplish the business of the IRB. The meetings shall be open to
       the public except for those discussions which deal with private or
       confidential information.


    b. A quorum shall be defined as a majority of the voting members
       (fifty percent plus one) including at least one member whose
       primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. The Chair shall vote
       only to break a tie.


    c. No IRB member shall participate in an IRB's initial or continuing
       review of any protocol in which the member has a real or an
       apparent conflict of interest, except to provide information
       requested by an IRB.


    d. Possible IRB Actions

    1. Protocol approval


   Protocol approval requires the approval of a majority of the IRB's
       quorum. If the vote of the IRB is not unanimous, the minority
       opinion must be recorded in or attached to the minutes and
       accompany the majority decision when forwarded for final
       institutional review and approval. A copy of each approved protocol
       together with all the correspondence and approval cover sheet will
       be forwarded for institutional approval and signature to the DDIR
       or his/her IC designee (see III. A. 3.). Protocols conducted in the
       CC are then forwarded to the Director, CC for review and approval
       as per III. D. 2. Copies of protocols not conducted in the CC shall
       be forwarded to OHSR for entry into its database (III. I.
       7.b(2)).

    2. Protocol approval with recommendations


   The IRB may approve a protocol with non-binding recommendations. PIs
       must respond in writing to IRB recommendations.

    3. Protocol approval with stipulations


   An IRB may approve a protocol with stipulations which must be met in
       writing by a PI before initiation of the research. The IRB may (i)
       authorize the IRB Chair to approve the response to the stipulations
       and forward the protocol as described in d. (1) above; (ii)
       authorize an IRB subcommittee to review the response to the
       stipulations, or (iii) request that the response be reviewed at a
       convened meeting of the IRB.

    4. Tabling of protocol


   Approval cannot be granted until further information is provided or
       specific changes are made. When the new information is submitted
       the protocol is reviewed by the full IRB again.

    5. Disapproval

   Notice of the disapproval is sent to the PI and includes the reasons
       for the disapproval and information about reconsideration.

    5. IRB notification to research investigators in writing of its
       actions
       The IRB shall notify research investigators in writing of its
       decisions.

    6. IRB Records

    a. Each IRB shall maintain copies of protocols and samples of consent
       documents that it has reviewed; scientific evaluations, if any,
       that accompany protocols, including, when appropriate, a copy of
       the relevant clinical investigator's brochure; minutes of its
       meetings in accord with 45 CFR 46.115(a)(2); a current approved
       membership list; progress reports submitted by investigators;
       reports of injuries to subjects; copies of all correspondence
       between the IRB and investigators, statements of significant new
       findings provided to subjects; and documentation of collaborative
       and cooperative research activities occurring at other institutions
       with MPAs, SPAs, or other OPRR-approved assurances.


    b. These records and documents shall be retained for at least three
       years after completion of the research. The records shall be
       accessible for inspection and copying by OHSR and authorized
       representatives of DHHS at reasonable times and in a reasonable
       manner.


    c. The IRB shall notify the OHSR of any change in its membership.

    I. The Office of Human Subjects Research (OHSR)

    1. The OHSR is administratively situated in the Office of Intramural
       Research, NIH and the Director reports to the Deputy Director for
       Intramural Research (DDIR). The OHSR coordinates and oversees NIH's
       activities to which this MPA applies involving the protection of
       human research subjects.


    2. Institutional determinations concerning exemptions to 45 CFR 46

   The OHSR is responsible for reviewing the preliminary determinations of
       research investigators (see III. C. 2.) and for making final
       institutional determinations of whether research activities qualify
       for exemption from coverage under 45 CFR 46.101 (Appendix C).

    a. Documentation of research activities that do qualify for exemption
       will be kept on file in the OHSR.


    b. Documentation of research activities that are determined not to be
       exempt will be returned to the investigator for incorporation into
       a protocol and submission to the appropriate IRB for review.

    3. Conduct of educational activities


   The OHSR plans, organizes and conducts educational programs, as
       appropriate, for all NIH IRP scientists conducting research with
       human subjects.


    4. Conduct of inquiries/investigations
       At the request of the DDIR, the OHSR shall conduct inquiries and/or
       investigations concerning allegations of noncompliance with this
       Assurance and/or other policies and procedures covering the conduct
       of human subjects research.

    5. Review of NIH practices and procedures for the protection of human
       subjects


   OHSR will provide to the DDIR ongoing review and evaluation of NIH
       practices and procedures for the protection of human subjects to
       which this MPA applies.

    6. Policy formation concerning human subjects research

    a. The OHSR interprets and formulates policies consistent with 45 CFR
       46.


    b. In this activity, it coordinates its efforts with other appropriate
       groups including, but not limited to, the CC Medical Executive
       Committee, the HSRAC, the Office of the Director, CC, and the IRBs.

    7. Collaborative and cooperative research activities

    a. The NIH will comply with the requirements set forth in 45 CFR
       46.114 regarding cooperative research projects.


    b. When collaborative or cooperative research activities are being
       conducted with other entities that do not have assurances
       established with OPRR, the OHSR will consult with the OPRR and
       will, on behalf of the NIH, request that the OPRR negotiate
       assurances of compliance, as warranted.


    c. OHSR will establish and maintain the NIH database for which this
       MPA applies of all collaborative and cooperative research
       activities for which SPAs or other OPRR approved assurances are
       required.


    d. The NIH may accept, for the purposes of meeting IRB review
       requirements, the review of an IRB established under another MPA or
       other OPRR-approved assurance covering the research to be
       conducted.

    1. In the case of multiple-protocol, long-term collaborative
       agreements, such acceptance must be approved by OHSR and the
       corresponding official(s) of the other cooperating institution(s),
       and kept on file in the OHSR.


    2. In the case of a single protocol, one-time-only collaboration, OHSR
       may approve a written request by an NIH investigator for deferral
       to another OPPR-assured institution when the following conditions
       have been met:

    a. Research subjects are to be enrolled only at OPRR-assured
       performance sites and not at NIH,


    b. for each site, a research protocol that includes a description of
       the activity to be conducted by the NIH investigator has been
       reviewed and approved by the collaborating institution's IRB, and


    c. documentation of IRB approval at the collaborating site(s) is
       provided by the NIH investigator to OHSR.

    3. When OHSR approves a deferral to another OPRR-assured institution,
       the investigator and IRB at that institution will be informed by
       copy of the OHSR memo of approval to the NIH investigator.


    4. Documentation of OHSR activities taken at (1), (2), and (3) above
       will be forwarded to OPRR for written approval prior to involvement
       of subjects.


    5. OHSR will maintain appropriate documentation of deferral requests
       and actions.

    8. Reporting requirements

   The OHSR, on behalf of the DDIR, shall report promptly to the OPRR:

    a. any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects or others;


    b. any suspension or termination of IRB approval as a result of
       unexpected serious harm to research subjects or others;


    c. any serious or continuing noncompliance with this policy or the
       requirements or determinations of the IRB (III. G. 6. b.);


    d. any changes in IRB membership, including IRB membership changes to
       meet 45 CFR 46.304(b) for research involving prisoners.

    J. NIH recognizes that certain Cooperative Protocol Research Programs
       (CPRPs) may require additional reporting and record-keeping related
       to the protection of human subjects.

                               Home Help Admin
