http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/releases/2002_01_15_cancer.html

   [header.jpg]
   Home
   News
   Contact
   Services
   About Maria
   Privacy Policy January 15, 2002

     Cantwell Praises Signing of the Native American Breast and Cervical
                  Cancer Treatment Technical Amendment Act

   WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Bush signed legislation today that will
   provide life saving breast and cervical cancer treatment to an
   estimated 94 Native American women each year.

   Senator Maria Cantwell, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee
   and original co-sponsor of the Native American Breast and Cervical
   Cancer Treatment Technical Amendment Act of 2001, said the new law will
   make Native American women who use the Indian Health Service and have
   been diagnosed with breast or cervical cancer eligible for Medicaid.

   "This legislation makes life-saving treatment available to Native
   American women," Cantwell said. "The bill is an important step in
   ensuring that Native American women have access to the comprehensive
   health care they deserve."

   The National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, funded
   through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) supports
   breast and cervical cancer screening activities in all 50 states and
   through 15 American Indian/Alaska Native organizations. However, the
   program provides funding only for screening services and not for
   treatment.

   Last year, Congress passed legislation to allow States to expand their
   Medicaid programs to provide breast and cervical cancer treatment as an
   optional benefit for women who have been diagnosed as having breast or
   cervical cancer through the CDC program and are not otherwise eligible
   for Medicaid. Unfortunately, the legislation inadvertently excludes
   Native American women from receiving Medicaid breast and cervical
   cancer treatment.

   The Native American Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Technical
   Amendment Act corrects this omission.

                                    # # #


   http://cantwell.senate.gov - Your connection to the U.S. Senate
