http://www.osc.gov/access.htm

   Skip following navigation links


   OSC Seal
   Introduction to the OSC
   Prohibited Personnel Practices
   Whistleblower Disclosures
   Political Activity (Hatch Act)
   Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
   Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
   Press Releases
   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
   Reading Room
   OSC Outreach Program
   Forms and Publications
   OSC Contacts and Other Links
   OSC Employment Opportunities
   OSC Home Page

Accessibility for Individuals with Disabilities

   The U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC) is committed to making this
   web site accessible to all visitors. The web site has undergone
   extensive redesign to ensure that it meets or exceeds the requirements
   of ยง 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by Title IV of the
   Workforce Investment Act of 1998.
   If you have difficulty accessing any content on this site, please
   e-mail OSC's web site administrator at webadmin@osc.gov, and describe
   specifically the page, section or document you are having difficulty
   accessing. We will make every effort to provide the means to access the
   information that you require.

Contacting OSC by Telephone

   All OSC telephone numbers listed on this web site can be accessed by
   callers with hearing/speech disabilities via TTY, by first dialing the
   Federal Relay Service at 1-800-877-8339.

Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) Files

   Certain documents with complex formatting are provided on this web site
   in formats such as ASCII or HTML. Many documents, however, are in
   Portable Document Format (PDF). These documents can only be viewed and
   printed using Adobe Acrobat Reader, which can be downloaded free from
   Adobe.
   For visually impaired users, a free translation service is available
   through Adobe Access, which will convert most PDF documents to simple
   HTML or ASCII text. This translated text can then be read by screen
   reading programs.


   Home | Contacts | Privacy Policy | Search

                                            Last Updated: 5/16/01
