http://www.energy.cted.wa.gov/papers/siting%20study.doc

   Comparative Evaluation OF Electric Power Plant Siting Requirements in
   WASHINGTON, OREGON AND CALIFORNIA Prepared for ENERGY DIVISION OFFICE
   OF TRADE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STATE OF WASHINGTON Prepared by
   PACIFIC ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC. 1600 SW Fourth Avenue, Suite 770 Portland
   OR 97201 503-227-7611 March 2, 2001 TABLE OF CONTENTS FIGURES TABLES
   APPENDICES EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The margin between electricity supply and
   demand has narrowed in the Pacific Northwest in recent years.
   Historically, the Northwest experienced its peak electric loads during
   the cold, winter months; the Southwest experienced its peak electric
   loads during the hot, summer months. When supplies were more plentiful
   and hydroelectric resources were less constrained, the Northwest was
   able to export electricity to the Southwest in the summer; the
   Southwest was able to reciprocate in the winter. Due to existing supply
   constraints in Washington, Oregon and California, some time may pass
   before resumption of these interregional transactions. The State of
   Washington seeks to improve the availability and reliability of its own
   electric generating resources and evaluate the development of
   generating resources to serve West Coast markets, all with a view to
   protecting other important state resources. Development of a new,
   natural gas-fired, combined-cycle electric generating facility requires
   access to certain minimum requirements, including: Real property
   Natural gas Water Electric transmission lines Major equipment After the
   developer has identified locations where these minimum requirements can
   be satisfied, the developer will weigh those locations against numerous
   other considerations in arriving at a decision about where best to site
   a new facility. Those considerations will include: State tax structure
   Cost of plant construction Cost of natural gas Cost of electric
   transmission Markets for electricity Timing and certainty of the site
   certification process Cost of environmental compliance For the purposes
   of this study, we proposed development of a 520-megawatt,
   combined-cycle electric generating project fueled with natural gas and
   cooled with water (see Appendix A). We operated on the assumptions that
   prospective developers would place their emphasis on locating sites at
   which all necessary infrastructure requirements could be satisfied at
   the lowest achievable cost and at which there would be very few if any
   impediments to early development (see Appendix B). For instance, while
   some projects utilize oil as a backup fuel, we did not factor into our
   projections the cost of capital additions required for dual-fuel
   operations (ranging from $700,000 to $1,000,000 for tanks and other
   necessary apparatus to accommodate a 3-day supply, or approximately 2
   million gallons, of backup fuel). Due largely to air quality compliance
   issues, oil is used as a backup fuel in facilities of this size only
   where natural gas availability is notably constrained or subject to
   frequent interruptions. Similarly, we did not factor into our
   projections the cost of air quality offsets in Oregon or Washington.
   Unlike California, both states have sites available that would not be
   subject to the requirement to obtain air quality offsets. And, we did
   not factor into our projections dry cooling as a substitute for water
   cooling (a design modification that may add considerably to project
   costs), because, given the option, developers would focus first on
   finding sites with adequate water resources. We evaluated the cost of
   constructing and operating the project in Washington, Oregon and
   California. It was our objective to identify issues affecting project
   development in each of the three states under investigation. Practical
   obstacles to the development of new, large-scale electric generating
   facilities in any of the three states under investigation include the
   reduced availability and increased cost of natural gas and the
   immediate shortage of electric generating equipment. Developers that
   are best equipped to proceed with new project construction are those
   that own or have otherwise tied up natural gas reserves and pipeline
   capacity and those that have placed advance orders for available
   generating equipment. The installed cost of our typical project varies
   from state to state as a consequence of sales taxes and other state
   impositions. The installed cost of the project in the three states is
   as follows: Washington $386,860,000; Oregon $369,750,500; and
   California $386,100,000. Factors that add to the installed cost of the
   project in Washington include sales tax on the cost of project
   components and construction labor ($22,360,000) and permitting fees
   paid directly to the Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council
   ($500,000). Adding to the installed cost of the project in Oregon are a
   carbon dioxide mitigation fee ($5,500,000) and permitting fees paid
   directly to the Energy Facility Siting Council ($250,000). And, adding
   to the installed cost of the project in California is the sales tax on
   the cost of project components and construction labor ($22,100,000).
   Permitting fees paid directly to the respective siting authorities
   would normally be included in development costs where it would account
   for a negligible part of the total. For the purposes of this study,
   those fees have been broken out as a separate item to elucidate
   state-to-state differences. While the carbon dioxide mitigation fee
   assessed against projects in Oregon is shown as an addition to the
   project cost, air pollution offsets assessed in California are shown as
   an addition to annual operating expense. Figure 1-1 depicts power plant
   construction costs for the three states under investigation. In
   addition to some variation in the cost of installation, the project
   would be subject to variations in annual operating expenses as a
   consequence of state impositions, including property taxes in each of
   the three states, sales tax on a portion of annual operation and
   maintenance (``O&M'') expense in Washington and California (presumed to
   apply to ten percent of total O&M expense for the purposes of this
   study), brokered natural gas tax in Washington, corporate income tax in
   Oregon and California, and NOx offsets in California. Assuming our
   project operates at a 92% capacity factor, purchases gas at $4.00 per
   mmBtu, and sells all of its electric output at $60.00 per
   megawatt-hour, these annual impositions result in the cost additions
   shown in Table 1-1. : ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSE ADDITIONS RESULTING FROM
   STATE IMPOSITIONS Property Tax Sales Tax Income Tax Fuel Tax NOx
   Offsets Total Washington $3,896,568 $288,326 $4,390,869 $8,575,763
   Oregon $3,900,000 $4,459,896 $8,359,896 California $3,385,200 $284,973
   $5,857,034 $800,000 $10,327,207 The effects of these impositions, taken
   together with other operating expenses and federal taxes, are shown in
   Figure 1-2. : POWER PLANT CONSTRUCTION COST COMPARISON : POWER PLANT
   ANNUAL OPERATION EXPENSE & TAX COMPARISON Generally, over the life of
   the proposed project, the effects of local impositions favor Washington
   over both Oregon and California, particularly as the price of
   electricity increases (provided it does so in tandem with, or at a
   greater rate than, the price of natural gas). We calculated the net
   present value (``NPV'') of the typical electric generating project in
   each of the three states under investigation. While the NPV differs
   from state to state, even under the most dramatic set of assumptions
   the overall spread is less than ten percent. Washington, where project
   revenues are not subject to a state corporate income tax, rises to the
   top of the list as electricity prices escalate in tandem with, or at a
   greater rate than, natural gas prices. Figures 1-3 and 1-4 illustrate
   the comparative NPV for the typical electric generating project sited
   in Washington, Oregon and California assuming a natural gas purchase
   price of $4.00 per mmBtu and assuming: (1) the project is 50-percent
   financed; and (2) the project is 100-percent financed. Similar results
   would be obtained using different natural gas pricing assumptions. :
   NPV COMPARISON FOR PROJECT WITH 50% FINANCING (GAS PRICE: $4/mmBtu) :
   NPV COMPARISON FOR PROJECT WITH 100% FINANCING (GAS PRICE: $4/mmBtu)
   The infrastructure necessary for plant development is available, to
   varying degrees, in each of the three states under investigation. In
   each state, there are locations with access to natural gas, water, and,
   with some limitations, electric transmission suitable for plant
   development. In California, to a greater extent than is true of
   Washington or Oregon, development may be hampered by water limitations,
   by land use issues, and by stringent air quality regulations. Each of
   the three states under investigation offers a ``one-stop'' permitting
   process for large-scale electric generating projects. Centralizing the
   decision-making process for projects of this size and scope may
   expedite site certification. Still, permitting of our typical electric
   generating project would take approximately two years. Construction
   could take another two years. Developers clearly favor a permitting
   approach that is well defined, manageable, and cost-effective. To a
   large extent, environmental standards are comparable in each of the
   states evaluated. However, in California, NOx offsets may add
   approximately $0.20/MWh to the cost of generating electricity at
   foreseeable NOx offset costs. During periods of price volatility, these
   costs may increase dramatically. The financial community has been
   hesitant to fund merchant power plants, largely because the prospective
   developers are unable to demonstrate with any degree of certainty that
   their revenue streams will be sufficient to cover debt service and the
   establishment of expected reserves. Developers have been unable to make
   this showing because they have encountered difficulty in executing
   long-term contracts for the sale of output from their projects at
   acceptable prices. And, this predicament arises because the acceptable
   price for output from these facilities is higher than the retail price
   Northwest consumers have been accustomed to paying. To the extent that
   debt financing is available, it is unlikely to account for more than
   60-percent of the project cost. For this reason, developers with
   sufficient resources have turned to 100-percent commercial bond
   financing for their proposed projects. Other developers are exploring
   lease-financing arrangements. Developers with lesser resources may have
   great difficulty finding a source of project financing. INTRODUCTION
   Electric reserves have declined in the western United States. Several
   factors may contribute to this phenomenon, including low water
   conditions, salmon preservation efforts, transmission system
   limitations, population and industrial growth, lack of construction of
   new electric generating facilities, the decline of utility investments
   in energy efficiency and conservation, and the convergence of all of
   these factors with the onset of cold weather conditions and regularly
   scheduled plant maintenance. Development of new sources of electric
   generation in Washington, Oregon and California has proceeded slowly in
   the recent past. In general, this slowness may be attributed to the low
   market price for electricity during the last ten years, coupled with
   uncertainty about the effects of ongoing or contemplated electric
   industry restructuring. Existing investor-owned electric utilities have
   avoided new investment in generation, pending decisions about how they
   will configure themselves in a restructured environment. Because of low
   market prices for electricity prior to 2000, many independent power
   producers have postponed development of new generating facilities
   costing hundreds of millions of dollars and often requiring a five-year
   development effort. During this period of uncertainty, the margin
   between supply and demand has narrowed. Recognizing the importance of
   giving timely attention to these issues, the Energy Division, Office of
   Trade and Economic Development, State of Washington (``Energy
   Division''), seeks to understand the relative influence of Washington
   State's specific electric power plant siting requirements in comparison
   to Oregon and California and the effect of Washington's siting process
   on the decision to build new electricity generating facilities in
   Washington to serve state and West Coast markets. The Energy Division
   engaged Pacific Energy Systems, Inc., to prepare an evaluation of the
   comparative electric power plant siting requirements in Washington,
   Oregon, and California focusing on: Environmental, Administrative and
   Other Legal Siting Requirements. Tax Obligations Related to Power Plant
   Construction and Operation. Other Issues Affecting the Decision to Size
   and Develop a Power Plant. Importance of Siting-Related Factors to the
   Financial Markets. The report compares the siting environment in each
   of these three states, with emphasis on the environmental, permitting,
   tax and financing issues a prospective developer would confront in
   siting this facility in Washington, Oregon and California.
   STATE-BY-STATE COMPARISON OF SITING REQUIREMENTS Whether sited in
   Washington, Oregon or California, the typical large-scale electric
   generating project must satisfy applicable environmental, safety, and
   land use criteria. For the typical electric generating plant, these
   criteria are comparable in each of the three states under
   investigation. Their application, on the other hand, may militate
   against locating a facility in any one of the states. In many parts of
   California, for instance, the developer will find it especially
   difficult to satisfy air quality standards, to obtain necessary
   conditional land use approvals, and, in some instances, to obtain water
   sufficient for water-cooling. In urban Washington and Oregon, the
   developer may find it difficult to satisfy applicable air quality
   standards. And, in Oregon, the developer will be required to comply
   with a carbon dioxide mitigation standard that would add $5.5 million
   to the cost of the proposed project, based on project size and thermal
   efficiency. Each state employs a ``one-stop'' permitting process for
   projects deemed to be of sufficient size to affect state interests,
   though each state sets a different size threshold. In all cases, this
   process makes provision for public input. In Oregon and Washington, a
   decision by the siting authority may be appealed directly to the State
   Supreme Court. In California, appeals would wind their way through
   normal administrative procedures. The ``one-stop'' permitting process
   confers upon the lead agency authority to apply standards adopted by
   other state agencies. The lead agency places heavy reliance upon these
   other agencies for review of subject matter for which they possess
   special expertise. Only in rare instances will the lead agency override
   those standards in the public interest. Washington Process. In
   Washington, authority to review and recommend approval or rejection of
   site certificate applications to the Governor for thermal electric
   generating projects with a rated capacity of 250 megawatts or more
   resides with the Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council (''EFSEC'').
   EFSEC consists of one representative from each of nine state agencies
   (Department of Ecology, Department of Fish and Wildlife, Department of
   Health, Military Department, Department of Community, Trade and
   Economic Development, Utilities and Transportation Commission,
   Department of Natural Resources, Department of Agriculture, and
   Department of Transportation) and, during review of a specific
   application, one representative each from the county and city or port
   district in which the proposed project would be located. The Washington
   process is typically initiated by an independently commissioned
   potential site study that identifies major environmental and other
   impacts associated with the proposed energy facility. This study is
   performed in consultation with state agencies, local governments, and
   other stakeholders. Following the completion of the potential site
   study, an applicant submits a site certificate application (``SCA'').
   The SCA must describe the project in detail, list all pertinent
   federal, state and local requirements, and address the elements set
   forth in Appendix C. EFSEC employs an independent consultant to review
   the application to ensure it fully addresses the guidelines set forth
   in the Washington Administrative Code (WAC 463-42-135) and to begin
   preparation of the Environmental Impact Statement (``EIS'') required
   under the State Environmental Policy Act (``SEPA''). Standards subject
   to review are shown in Appendix C. When the independent contractor has
   notified EFSEC that the application contains sufficient information for
   preparation of the EIS and commencement of adjudicative hearings, EFSEC
   proceeds to develop a draft environmental impact statement and then
   proceeds to an adjudicative phase with hearings. Once the application
   is determined to be complete, the 12-month statutory application review
   process begins. An initial public hearing is scheduled in the vicinity
   of the proposed project within 60 days after receipt of the application
   for the purposes of informing the public about the proposed project and
   determining whether the project is consistent with local or regional
   land use plans. If the proposed project is not consistent with local
   land use plans, the applicant can apply to the local or regional land
   use authority for a variance. If the local or regional land use
   authority does not grant the variance, the applicant may request state
   preemption. In the event the applicant applies for state preemption,
   EFSEC holds an adjudicative hearing to take testimony regarding the
   request. EFSEC is charged with giving due consideration to community
   interests and local rules and ordinances in making any state preemption
   recommendation to the Governor. A series of pre-hearing conferences may
   precede the scheduling of adjudicative hearings. These conferences
   allow for organizing and scheduling the hearings by subject area.
   Preparation of the draft EIS will ordinarily precede scheduling of the
   adjudicative hearings, though the final EIS will not be issued until
   the adjudicative hearings have been completed. Review of necessary air
   and water discharge permits is undertaken by EFSEC while the
   adjudicative hearings are underway. Additional hearings are held for
   the purpose of developing conditions that will attach to these permits.
   Generally, EFSEC observes Department of Ecology air and water quality
   standards in developing its recommendations. Permits ordinarily issued
   by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (``EPA'') but delegated to
   EFSEC under state implementation provisions, e.g., the Prevention of
   Significant Deterioration air permit, may require concurrent
   signature/approval from the EPA. If, upon completion of its review and
   adjudicative hearings, EFSEC determines it can recommend approval of
   the project, EFSEC develops a draft Site Certification Agreement
   (``SCA'') for consideration by the Governor. Within 60 days after
   receipt of the draft SCA, the Governor may (1) approve EFSEC's
   recommendation and sign the SCA, (2) reject the application, or (3)
   direct EFSEC to reconsider some aspects of the project and draft SCA.
   If EFSEC determines it cannot recommend approval of the project, its
   final order explains its decision. Historically, this entire process,
   from initiation of the potential site study to execution of the SCA,
   has taken approximately 18 to 24 months for a typical combustion
   turbine project. In addition to the costs incurred in conducting
   necessary environmental studies, plant engineering, and permit
   preparation (costs that may approach $2 million), the applicant is
   expected to reimburse EFSEC for staff time, consultants, and expenses,
   with costs ranging from $300,000 to $500,000. Participating agencies
   and other intervenors must fund their own participation in the
   application process. Oregon Process. In Oregon, authority to review and
   approve site certificate applications for all electric generating
   projects producing 25 megawatts or more resides with the Energy
   Facility Siting Council (''EFSC''). Exempted from this process are
   qualifying high-efficiency cogeneration projects, i.e., projects that
   produce both electricity and thermal energy useful in an industrial
   process. EFSC consists of seven citizens appointed by the Governor. The
   Oregon process is initiated when the applicant submits to the Oregon
   Office of Energy (``OOE'') its Notice of Intent (``NOI''). The NOI must
   describe, in general terms, the proposed site, project, and possible
   impacts of development. It must describe proposed routes for linear
   facilities, including gas pipelines, water pipelines, and electric
   transmission lines. It must also contain a list of permits the
   applicant believes are applicable to the project, as well as a list of
   property owners affected by the project and its linear facilities. And,
   the NOI must indicate whether the applicant intends to demonstrate
   compliance with statewide land use planning goals by obtaining local
   land use approvals (Path A) or by obtaining an EFSC determination that
   the proposed project complies with the statewide land use planning
   goals (Path B). OOE issues public notice of the NOI and holds at least
   one public information meeting in the vicinity of the proposed project.
   It also consults with all affected state agencies and local authorities
   to confirm that the NOI provides sufficient detail for each such agency
   and authority to identify how their requirements may be affected by the
   proposed project. Within 140 days after receipt of the NOI, OOE issues
   a Project Order in which it identifies applicable statutes and rules
   and identifies any special information needed for the application. The
   Project Order also identifies the areas over which the applicant must
   assess the proposed project's potential impacts in detail (the
   ``analysis areas''). After issuance of the Project Order, the applicant
   submits its Application for Site Certificate (``ASC'') to OOE. The ASC
   must describe the project in detail and address the standards set forth
   in Appendix C. OOE reviews the ASC and, upon determining it to be
   complete, considers the ASC to be filed. A final decision on the
   application is due within 9 months after the ASC is filed. Upon
   completion of its review of the filed ASC, OOE issues a draft proposed
   order containing determinations of compliance with applicable
   standards, as shown in Appendix C, and recommending conditions. OOE
   then schedules a public hearing to take notice of the concerns of any
   interested person. The draft proposed order and public comments are
   made the subject of an initial review meeting held by EFSC (the ``First
   Reading''). After the First Reading, OOE issues a proposed order and
   notice of contested case. The contested case is held before an
   independent hearings officer and is open to the applicant and persons
   who have raised concerns in the public hearing and have been admitted
   as intervenors. At the conclusion of the contested case, the hearings
   officer provides a written order to EFSC. EFSC considers the written
   order and parties' exceptions to the order in deciding whether or not
   to issue a site certificate and what conditions the site certificate
   should contain. Any appeal of EFSC's final decision is directly and
   exclusively to the Oregon Supreme Court. This entire process, from
   submission of the NOI to issuance of the site certificate, has
   generally taken from 22 to 29 months and may be expedited as warranted.
   In addition to the costs incurred in conducting necessary environmental
   studies, plant engineering, and permit preparation (costs that may
   approach $2 million), the applicant is expected to reimburse OOE for
   staff time, consultants, and expenses, at a cost approaching $250,000.
   In addition, Oregon applicants may expect to incur permit-related costs
   for offsetting carbon dioxide emissions, depending on plant size and
   thermal efficiency. For our proposed project, the cost of these offsets
   would be approximately $5.5 million. California Process. In California,
   authority to review and approve site certificate applications for
   thermal electric generating projects producing 50 megawatts or more
   resides with the California Energy Commission (''CEC''). CEC consists
   of five members appointed by the Governor and representing specific
   areas of expertise: law, environment, economics, science/engineering,
   and the public at large. The California process is initiated when the
   applicant submits to the CEC its Application for Certification
   (``AFC''). The AFC must describe the project in detail and address the
   standards set forth in Appendix C. The CEC staff reviews the AFC for
   completeness, placing heavy reliance upon state agencies possessing
   requisite expertise. Within 30 days after filing of the AFC, the CEC
   staff must make a data adequacy recommendation to the CEC. The CEC must
   act upon that recommendation within 45 days after filing of the AFC. If
   the AFC is found to be incomplete, the CEC provides the applicant with
   a written list of deficiencies to be addressed by the applicant in a
   supplemental filing. The CEC must make any subsequent data adequacy
   determination within 30 days after receipt of the supplemental filing.
   When the AFC is found to be complete, the CEC staff collects additional
   data from the applicant and other agencies for impact analysis. Public
   workshops on technical and procedural matters and informational
   hearings are held during this phase. The CEC staff conducts an
   independent analysis, focusing on a thorough examination of
   environmental impacts, mitigation measures, and development of a
   compliance plan. As a result of this analysis, the staff prepares a
   Preliminary Staff Assessment. Public workshops are held for discussion
   of the Preliminary Staff Assessment. Thereafter, the staff prepares a
   Final Staff Assessment that serves as the staff's testimony during the
   hearing phase. Public hearings are then held before an Energy
   Commission Committee (two members of the CEC). Interested parties and
   the public can testify or provide comments at these hearings. The
   Energy Commission Committee prepares the Presiding Member's Proposed
   Decision that is released for public review and comment after the close
   of hearings. The Presiding Member's Proposed Decision, together with
   any revisions resulting from public review and comment, is heard by the
   full Commission and either adopted, modified or rejected. Depending on
   that decision, the AFC is either approved by the full Commission with
   conditions or denied. Any appeal of that decision is to the court of
   appeal or the California Supreme Court. In California, the review and
   approval process is to be completed within 12 months after the
   application is found data adequate. As with Washington and Oregon, the
   entire process, from submission of the Application for Certification to
   approval of the AFC, is likely to take two years or more. To strengthen
   the proposition that its rulings are fair and objective, the CEC does
   not charge fees for processing an AFC. The applicant may be expected to
   bear some costs associated with other permits related to the facility,
   and these costs are included under the project development costs
   applicable to the proposed project in all three of the states under
   investigation. Notably, recognizing that California faced potentially
   serious electricity shortages in the near future, the California
   Legislature passed the California Energy Security and Reliability Act
   of 2000 on August 31, 2000. As a consequence of that Act, the CEC
   instituted a 6-month licensing process for thermal power plants. To be
   eligible for this expedited process, the proposed project must qualify
   for a negative declaration as defined by the California Environmental
   Quality Act. The proposed project must also satisfy the following
   conditions: Meets or exceeds all local, state, and federal air quality
   rules, including Best Available Control Technology requirements, and
   has contracts for all required air emission offsets. Does not cause
   adverse water impacts or does not require new appropriations of water.
   Is in full compliance with all land use requirements, including General
   Plans and zoning requirements. Avoids significant natural resources,
   including rare, threatened, and endangered species. Avoids significant
   adverse impacts and electricity system reliability problems. Because
   the expected electricity shortages became a reality for California in
   late 2000 and early 2001, further efforts are being made to expedite
   the plant siting process, particularly for projects in the 50-megawatt
   to 100-megawatt range. : STATE-BY-STATE COMPARISON OF SITING ISSUES TAX
   OBLIGATIONS FOR TYPICAL POWER PLANTS For the purposes of projecting
   annual taxes applicable to the typical power plant, it is necessary to
   make certain assumptions about the cost of natural gas and the price of
   electricity. The analysis that follows is based upon the assumptions
   shown in Appendix E: Baseline Assumptions for Typical Power Plant with
   50% Financing and Appendix F: Baseline Assumptions for Typical Power
   Plant with 100% Financing. Sensitivity to gas and electricity prices of
   the assumptions regarding net present value for Washington projects is
   reflected in Appendix G: Sensitivity of Washington Power Plant NPV (50%
   Financing) and Appendix H: Sensitivity of Washington Power Plant NPV
   (100% Financing). : STATE TAXES APPLICABLE TO ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS
   Washington Oregon California State Sales Tax 6.50 % None 4.75 % Local
   Sales Tax 0 - 2.10 % None 2.25 - 3.75 % Corporate Income Tax None 6.60
   % 8.84 % Property Tax 1.38 % 1.50 % 1.20 % Public Utility Tax 3.873 %
   None None Natural Gas Tax 3.852 % None None Washington Taxes. In
   Washington, the developer would be required to pay sales tax at the
   rate of 6.5 to 8.6% on the constructed cost of the generating plant,
   depending upon project location and the corresponding local sales and
   use tax. If the constructed cost of the plant were $260 million
   ($500/MW), excluding permitting, financing, and other development
   costs, the applicable sales tax would range from $16.9 million to $22.7
   million, for a total after-tax cost of at least $277 million.
   Permitting, financing and other project development costs would add
   $104 million ($200/MW) to the cost of the project. The direct cost of
   completing the site certification process, i.e., fees payable to EFSEC
   to compensate the agency for the independent consultant's services,
   staff time, and associated expenses, would be approximately $500,000.
   Total installation cost of the generating plant would be at least
   $386.9 million. In addition, the developer would be required to pay
   annual property tax at the rate of approximately 1.38% on the assessed
   value of the generating plant, sales tax on a portion of its operating
   and maintenance (``O&M'') costs, and natural gas tax at the rate of
   3.852% on the cost of natural gas consumed by the project. Assuming the
   assessed value of the project is $277 million (constructed cost, not
   including permitting, financing and other development costs, plus
   applicable sales tax), the property tax payable annually would be $3.82
   million (though this assessment would be expected to decline over time
   due to plant depreciation). Assuming sales tax is chargeable to ten
   percent of O&M costs, the sales tax payable annually would be $217.921.
   Assuming fuel costs are $114 million (at $4.00/mmBtu), the natural gas
   tax would be $4.39 million. Naturally, this number would rise and fall
   in concert with natural gas prices. As a merchant plant, the project
   would be unlikely to realize any impact from the Washington Public
   Utility Tax (``PUT''). Because, by definition, the project would be a
   light and power business, it would be subject to PUT. That tax applies
   to gross receipts from sales of electricity at the rate of 3.873%.
   Allowable deductions from gross receipts include, among others: (1)
   sales of electricity for resale inside or outside Washington; and (2)
   sales of electricity for consumption outside Washington. Most projects
   would qualify for one or the other of these deductions and would be
   very unlikely to pay this tax. First year Washington tax obligations
   for the typical project would be $8.58 million, including property tax
   of $3,896,568, sales tax of $288,326, and brokered natural gas tax of
   $4,390,869. The net present value of the after-tax profit on the
   typical project in Washington, assuming 50-percent debt financing, a
   purchased gas price of $4.00/mmBtu, and an electricity sales price of
   $60.00/MWh, would be $216.42 million. (See Appendix D.) Oregon Taxes.
   In Oregon, no sales tax would apply to the constructed cost of the
   generating plant. Permitting, financing and other project development
   costs would add $104 million to the cost of the project. The direct
   cost of completing the site certification process, i.e., fees payable
   to the Oregon Office of Energy, would be $250,000. Addition of the
   Oregon carbon dioxide mitigation fee would cause the project cost to
   increase by an additional $5.5 million. Total installation cost of the
   generating plant would be $369.8 million, as shown in Appendix D. In
   addition, the developer would be required to pay annual property tax at
   the rate of at least 1.5% (excluding voter-approved local assessments)
   on the assessed value of the generating plant and annual income tax at
   the rate of 6.6% on taxable revenue. Assuming the assessed value of the
   plant is $260 million, excluding permitting, financing, and other
   development costs, the annual property tax would be at least $3.9
   million. Assuming annual taxable income is $67.57 million, the
   applicable state income tax would be $4.46 million. Annual Oregon tax
   obligations for the typical project would be $8.36 million. The net
   present value of the after-tax profit on the typical project in Oregon,
   assuming 50-percent debt financing, a purchased gas price of
   $4.00/mmBtu, and an electricity sales price of $60.00/MWh, would be
   $227.73 million. (See Appendix D.) California Taxes. In California, the
   developer would be required to pay sales tax at the rate of
   approximately 8.5% on the constructed cost of the generating plant. If
   the constructed cost of the plant were $260 million, excluding
   permitting, financing, and other development costs, the applicable
   sales tax would approximate $22.1 million, for a total after-tax cost
   of $282.1 million. Permitting, financing and other project development
   costs would add $104 million to the cost of the project. Total
   installation cost of the generating plant would approach $386.1
   million. The developer would also be required to pay annual property
   tax at the rate of at least 1.20% on the assessed value of the
   generating plant, sales tax on a portion of its operating and
   maintenance (``O&M'') costs, and annual income tax at the rate of 8.84%
   on taxable revenue. Assuming the assessed value of the plant is $282.1
   million, excluding permitting, financing, and other development costs,
   the annual property tax would be at least $3.39 million. Assuming sales
   tax is chargeable to ten percent of O&M costs, the sales tax payable
   annually would be $284,973. Assuming annual taxable revenue is $66.26
   million, the applicable state income tax would be $5.86 million. Annual
   California tax obligations for the typical project would be in the
   amount of $9.54 million. The net present value of the after-tax profit
   on the typical project in California, assuming 50-percent debt
   financing, a purchased gas price of $4.00/mmBtu, and an electricity
   sales price of $60.00/MWh, would be $207.75 million. (See Appendix D.)
   Comparative Tax Effects. Despite the very different taxing mechanisms
   in the three states under investigation, the comparison of tax effects
   on the typical electric generating plant reveals there is relatively
   little difference between Washington, Oregon and California on a net
   present value basis. Recognizing this evaluation is based on a host of
   assumptions that may be subject to further verification, net present
   value of after-tax profit in Washington is $216.42 million, in Oregon
   is $227.73 million, and in California is $207.75 million. If the price
   of electricity were to increase in tandem with or at a greater rate
   than the cost of natural gas, Washington would become the favored state
   because the generating plant would realize improved net profit in a
   state that does not impose a corporate income tax on profits from the
   operation. If the price of natural gas increases at a greater rate than
   the price of electricity, Washington's position declines. Table 4-2 is
   intended to show the sensitivity to natural gas and electricity prices
   of NPV in the three states under investigation. (See Appendices G
   through L for additional examples.) : SENSITIVITY OF 50%-FINANCED PLANT
   NPV TO ELECTRICITY & GAS PRICES Washington Oregon California Natural
   Gas Price: $3/mmBtu Electricity Price: $60/MWh $353,000,000
   $351,000,000 $328,000,000 Electricity Price: $100/MWh $1,130,000,000
   $1,076,000,000 $1,036,000,000 Natural Gas Price: $4/mmBtu Electricity
   Price: $60/MWh $216,000,000 $228,000,000 $208,000,000 Electricity
   Price: $100/MWh $993,000,000 $953,000,000 $916,000,000 Natural Gas
   Price: $5/mmBtu Electricity Price: $60/MWh $79,000,000 $104,000,000
   $87,000,000 Electricity Price: $100/MWh $856,000,000 $830,000,000
   $795,000,000 Developers interviewed in the course of this investigation
   were quick to point out that taxes do not weigh heavily in their
   decisions about where to site a new generating project. Of far greater
   importance are infrastructure, availability of natural gas and major
   equipment, reliability of the permitting process, and availability of
   financing alternatives. FINANCIAL MARKET ISSUES AFFECTING POWER PLANT
   SITING The financial markets are reluctant to lend funds for the
   development of merchant power plants. Unlike lending to the regulated
   utilities that were ``guaranteed'' a return on their investment as a
   consequence of including the generating facility in their rate base,
   the merchant plants often have few if any certain sales. And, unlike
   the independent power projects developed pursuant to the Public Utility
   Policies Act of 1978 (``PURPA''), the electric output from which the
   regulated utilities were required to buy, the merchant plants often
   have no fixed rate contracts for sale of their output. Clearly, the
   merchant plant with firm contracts for the sale of some acceptable
   percentage of its output will fare better in the financial markets than
   the merchant plant relying solely on the spot market. Of greatest
   concern to the financial markets is the projected revenue stream
   expected to flow from operation of the proposed electric generating
   facility. That revenue stream must be sufficient to cover debt service
   plus some predetermined reserve margin. The prospective lender will
   cause the developer's revenue projections to be verified by an
   independent analyst. To the extent the developer has firm contracts for
   the purchase of gas and the sale of electricity, these projections will
   be more easily verified. In addition, lenders have placed increasing
   emphasis on the project's debt coverage ratio and are unlikely to loan
   amounts in excess of sixty percent of the project's total installation
   cost. In determining whether to put their funds at risk, in addition to
   limiting the amount of debt a project may incur and demanding detailed
   showings of the project's expected revenue stream, the financial
   markets will conduct detailed studies of the proposed project, the
   borrower's track record, and all contracts bearing upon the success of
   the project. Issues of particular importance in making a funding
   decision include the following: Verify that all necessary permits have
   been obtained or will be obtained as required. Ensure that permits
   contain no ``regulatory outs'', i.e., provisions enabling the
   regulatory authority to suspend or revoke the permits based on
   conditions over which the applicant has little or no control. Conduct
   detailed engineering evaluation to ensure the project will meet the
   developer's expectations. Verify property ownership. Verify fuel
   procurement agreements. Verify water procurement agreements. Verify
   electric sales agreements. Require corporate guarantee from responsible
   parent with acceptable financial statements. The availability of debt
   financing in current markets may be limited to those developers who can
   demonstrate they have firm contracts for the sale of all or a
   substantial portion of the project output. Uncertainty about the final
   outcome of industry restructuring has created obstacles to the
   execution of such contracts. Even with such contracts in hand, debt
   financing may be available for only 50% to 60% of project costs. KEY
   DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN THE STATES Environmental standards that apply to
   construction and operation of our typical electric generating plant are
   comparable in the three states under investigation. Application of
   those standards is most severe in California where air quality is of
   paramount importance. The tax structure and the permitting processes
   differ from state to state. In Washington, permitting the typical
   electric generating plant could take, on average, 18 months at a direct
   cost, excluding environmental studies, plant engineering, permit
   preparation, and other related costs, approaching $500,000. The
   Washington state sales tax would add approximately $22.4 million to the
   constructed cost of the plant. Total plant cost additions in Washington
   would be approximately $22.9. Annual property taxes would be
   approximately $3.9 million; sales taxes would be approximately
   $288,326; and natural gas taxes would be approximately $4.39 million.
   Total annual tax impacts in Washington would be approximately $8.58
   million. The net present value of the after-tax profit on the typical
   project in Washington, assuming 50-percent debt financing, a gas
   purchase price of $4.00/mmBtu and an electricity sales price of
   $60.00/MWh, would be $216.42 million. In Oregon, permitting could take
   from 22 to 29 months (though much effort is being expended to expedite
   the process) at a direct cost of approximately $250,000. If the project
   involved federal action requiring the preparation of an environmental
   impact statement, the cost of that effort would also be borne by the
   applicant. No sales tax would apply to the constructed cost of the
   project. Application of the carbon dioxide standard would add
   approximately $5.5 million to the constructed cost of the plant. Total
   plant cost additions in Oregon would be approximately $5.75 million.
   Annual property taxes would be approximately $3.9 million, and annual
   corporate income taxes would be approximately $4.46 million. Total
   annual tax impacts would be approximately $8.36 million. The net
   present value of the after-tax profit on the typical project in Oregon,
   assuming 50-percent debt financing, a gas purchase price of $4.00/mmBtu
   and an electricity sales price of $60.00/MWh, would be $227.73 million.
   In California, permitting would take approximately 24 months (6 months
   if the applicant qualified for the expedited process) at no direct cost
   to the applicant. The California state sales tax would add
   approximately $22.1 million to the constructed cost of the plant. Total
   plant cost additions would be approximately $22.1 million. Annual
   property taxes would be approximately $3.39 million; sales taxes would
   be approximately $284,973; corporate income taxes would be
   approximately $5.86 million, and the cost of NOx offsets would be
   approximately $800,000 (though this amount may be subject to wide
   variations, depending upon the volatility of the offsets markets).
   Total annual tax impacts would be approximately $9.53 million, and air
   quality offsets would add $800,000 to annual costs. The net present
   value of the after-tax profit on the typical project in California,
   assuming 50-percent debt financing, a gas purchase price of $4.00/mmBtu
   and an electricity sales price of $60.00/MWh, would be $207.75 million.
   On a net present value basis, the project fares best in Oregon ($227.73
   million), second best in Washington ($216.42 million), and third best
   in California ($207.75 million). However, the difference between the
   three states is relatively small, particularly given the very
   generalized assumptions incorporated in the evaluation. It should be
   noted that the cost of natural gas could quickly overwhelm any small
   difference in impositions from state to state. It should also be noted
   that the relative positions of Washington and Oregon change quickly as
   the price of electricity increases in tandem with, or at a greater rate
   than, the cost of natural gas. Factors considered important by
   developers include: availability of infrastructure, availability of
   major equipment, gas supply, water supply, markets for electricity
   (particularly long-term, fixed-price contracts for the sale of project
   output), reliability of the permitting process, and availability of
   project financing. In all of the states under investigation, the
   permitting process takes about two years. It should also be noted that
   the developer could spend up to $2 million, in addition to permit fees
   collected in Oregon and Washington, in moving the process to the point
   of site certification. The developer, while recognizing the need to
   respond to applicable standards, seeks some certainty that the process
   is well defined and the outcome is predictable. APPENDICES : TYPICAL
   ELECTRIC POWER PLANT PARAMETERS Configuration. Two 175-megawatt gas
   turbines, one 180-megawatt steam turbine Capacity Factor. 92 percent
   Electric Output. Gross plant output - 530 megawatts Plant load - 10
   megawatts Net plant output - 520 megawatts. Capital Cost. Engineering,
   Procurement & Construction $260 million ($500/KW) Development,
   Permitting, Financing, etc. $104 million ($200/KW) Total Cost $364
   million ($700/KW) Fuel Consumption. 3,604 mmBtu/hr (6800 Btu/kWh HHV)
   Water Consumption. 3000 gallons per minute; 1.58 billion gallons per
   year Emissions. NOx (2.5 ppm) 31 lb/hr 135 tons/year CO (4.0 ppm) 30
   lb/hr 131 tons/year PM10 38 lb/hr 166 tons/year VOC 7.2 lb/hr 32
   tons/year : TYPICAL POWER PLANT & NECESSARY INFRASTRUCTURE The typical
   natural gas-fired electric generating plant and its associated
   facilities must be sited near necessary infrastructure, including
   natural gas pipelines, a source of water for steam production and
   cooling, and electric transmission for moving electricity to the load
   centers. Developers will seek out sites in close proximity to the
   necessary infrastructure and then evaluate those sites against other
   criteria that may argue for or against development. Power Plant. For
   the purposes of this analysis, a typical electric power plant will be a
   net 520-megawatt combined cycle, natural gas-fired facility. That
   facility is described in greater detail in Appendix A: Typical Electric
   Power Plant Parameters. Necessary Infrastructure. Operation of the
   typical power plant will require access to natural gas, water, electric
   transmission, and wastewater disposal facilities. Identification of
   prospective project sites is accomplished through the use of a site
   selection process designed to measure accessibility of these key
   components and all other necessary facilities. A typical site selection
   process would evaluate the following features at any prospective power
   plant site: Access to Natural Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines. Operation
   of the power plant will require continuous consumption of very large
   quantities of natural gas (3536 million Btu per hour; 28,497,331
   million Btu per year at 92% capacity factor). Short interruptions in
   the supply of natural gas could be accommodated by the use of diesel
   fuel if its use is authorized under the applicable air quality permit
   and if the developer chooses to invest in backup fuel supply facilities
   and maintain an onsite inventory of fuel oil. The plant must have
   access to a supply of natural gas and one or more natural gas
   transmission lines. Key issues include: Natural gas supply Natural gas
   transmission pipeline Distance to pipeline Pipeline size and pressure
   (maximum/minimum) Pipeline maximum capacity and available capacity
   Expansion Plans/Subscription Schedule Access to Electric Transmission
   Lines. Marketing output from the power plant will require access to
   electric transmission lines. Key issues include: Owner of transmission
   line Distance to transmission line Accessibility of substations and
   interconnection points Transmission line rating (generally 115, 230 or
   500kV) Transmission line maximum capacity and available capacity
   Expansion plans Wheeling rates Cost of system upgrades 3. Access to
   Water. Operation of a water-cooled combined-cycle power plant will
   require continuous consumption of large quantities of water (180,000
   gallons per hour; 1.45 billion gallons per year at 92% capacity factor)
   required for steam production and cooling. Where water supplies are
   limited, e.g., eastern Oregon and Washington and much of California,
   air-cooled condensation may be utilized at a capital cost addition of
   approximately $20 million (an amount that may be partially offset by
   elimination of the need for a water supply pipeline and cooling tower
   and by reduction of annual water expenses). If equipped with air-cooled
   condensers, the amount of water required for operation of the power
   plant will be reduced by 90% to approximately 18,000 gallons per hour,
   or 145 million gallons per year (and electric output would be reduced
   on hot days). Key issues include: Source of water Availability of water
   rights Water quality Distance to water source Process water pipeline
   size and capacity 4. Means of Wastewater Disposal. Most water used for
   steam production and cooling will evaporate. The water that remains may
   contain high concentrations of dissolved solids (salts). Key issues
   include: Potential treatment facilities and receiving bodies Operating
   Agencies 5. Markets for Electricity. Until recently, most electric
   generating plants were built by the vertically-integrated, regulated
   electric utilities as the need for new generation was stimulated by an
   increase in customer demand. The principal exceptions to this rule
   were: (1) power plants built by energy-intensive industries to satisfy
   their own, on-site requirements, and (2) power plants (``qualifying
   facilities'') built by independent developers because, pursuant to the
   Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (``PURPA''), the
   regulated electric utilities were obligated to purchase their output.
   Since enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, new generating plants
   are more likely to be developed by independent power producers, though
   some utilities may continue to generate their own electricity,
   including constructing and operating new plants, and some end-users may
   develop on-site generation to satisfy their own requirements (perhaps
   with a view to selling any excess capacity). The independent power
   projects will sell their output to the regulated utilities, the power
   brokers and marketers, and, where industry restructuring has allowed
   for direct access, directly to the end-user. Accordingly, access to
   markets is a very important consideration for the project developer.
   Key markets include: Local utilities, including investor-owned
   utilities, public utility districts, municipal utilities, and
   cooperatives Local industries Trading hubs Property Rights. The project
   developer must acquire property rights sufficient for development of
   the project and all related and supporting facilities. Key issues
   include: Land Use/Zoning Availability Cost Government Issues. Each
   prospective site must be considered in light of state, regional, local,
   or special district government issues affecting its potential for
   development. Such issues may include rates of taxation and special
   economic incentives, e.g., economic development zones favoring
   industrial development. Permitting and Regulatory Issues. Each
   prospective must be considered in light of federal, state and local
   permitting and regulatory issues affecting development. Key issues
   include: Time required for obtaining necessary permits Certainty of the
   permitting process Cost associated with permit preparation and approval
   Cost of ongoing regulatory compliance 9. Environmental Issues. Each
   prospective site must be evaluated in light of prospects for
   satisfactorily addressing applicable environmental laws and
   regulations. Key issues include: Local air quality standards Wastewater
   discharge Visual aesthetics Archaeological and cultural sensitivities
   Threatened or endangered species Wildlife habitat Environmentally
   sensitive areas Geology Socio-Economic Issues 10. Cogeneration
   Potential. Sites situated on or adjacent to industrial users of both
   thermal energy and electricity may be particularly attractive to
   prospective developers. The industrial user may serve as both a host
   for the energy facility and a consumer of all or a portion of its
   output. To the extent that the use of steam or other thermal energy
   produced by the facility contributes to more efficient energy
   utilization, the proposed facility may qualify for special incentives.
   For instance, in Oregon such a facility may qualify as a
   high-efficiency cogeneration project exempt from EFSC jurisdiction and
   may be eligible for energy tax credits and financing under the Small
   Energy Loan Program. Or, again in Oregon, it may offset the carbon
   dioxide emissions that would otherwise add to the cost of the facility.
   : SITING STANDARDS & RESPONSIBLE AGENCIES Washington Thermal Energy
   Facility 250 MW or more Oregon Thermal Energy Facility 25 MW or more
   California Thermal Energy Facility 50 MW or more SEPA or CEQA EFSEC
   ----- CEC Managerial and Technical Expertise ----- EFSC CEC Air
   Pollution Prevention and Control EFSEC DEQ CEC Water Pollution
   Prevention and Control EFSEC DEQ CEC Land Use EFSEC EFSC or local land
   use authority (at option of Applicant CEC Water Resources EFSEC EFSC
   CEC Geology EFSEC EFSC CEC Soil Conditions EFSEC EFSC CEC Wetlands
   EFSEC EFSC CEC Protected Areas EFSEC EFSC CEC Fish and Wildlife EFSEC
   EFSC CEC Threatened and Endangered Species EFSEC EFSC CEC Aesthetics
   EFSEC EFSC CEC Visual Impacts (Light and Glare) EFSEC EFSC CEC Historic
   and Cultural Resources EFSEC EFSC CEC Recreational Facilities EFSEC
   EFSC CEC Socio-Economic Impacts EFSEC EFSC CEC Waste Minimization -----
   EFSC ----- Noise EFSEC EFSC CEC Facility Retirement EFSEC EFSC CEC
   Agricultural Crops and Animals EFSEC ----- ----- Carbon Dioxide
   Mitigation ----- EFSC ----- Air Quality Offsets ----- ----- Air Quality
   Management District : EFFECT OF STATE IMPOSITIONS ON ECONOMIC RETURN
   [Assumptions: 50% Debt Financing; Gas Price: $4/mmBtu; Electricity
   Price: $60/MWh] : BASELINE ASSUMPTIONS FOR TYPICAL POWER PLANT WITH 50%
   FINANCING Plant Output Plant Capacity (MW) 520 Capacity Factor 92%
   Annual Generation (MWh/yr) 4,190,784 Installation Costs Engineering,
   Procurement, and Construction Cost ($/kW) 500 Engineering, Procurement,
   and Construction Cost ($) $ 260,000,000 Development Costs ($/kW) (1)
   200 Development Costs ($) (1) $ 104,000,000 Baseline Installation Cost
   ($/kW) $ 700 Baseline Installation Cost ($) $ 364,000,000 Financing
   Costs Debt (% of Installation Cost) 50% Debt $ 182,000,000 Equity $
   182,000,000 Interest Rate 7.0% Term (yr) 35 Capital Recovery Factor for
   Debt Payment 7.72% Annual Debt Payment ($) $ 14,056,581 Unit Cost of
   Debt ($/MWh) $ 3.4 Owner's Discount Rate 15.0% Project Life (years) 35
   Capital Recovery Factor for NPV Calculation 15.11% Operation and
   Maintenance Costs Unit Cost of O & M ($/MWh) $ 8.0 Annual O&M Cost ($)
   $ 33,526,272 Fuel Costs Fuel Price ($/mmBtu, HHV) $ 4.00 Plant Heat
   Rate (Btu/kWh) 6,800 Annual Fuel Consumption (mmBtu) 28,497,331 Annual
   Fuel Cost ($) $ 113,989,325 Unit Cost of Fuel ($/MWh) $ 27.2 Total Cost
   of Generating Electricity (2) ($/year) $ 161,572,177 Total Unit Cost of
   Electricity ($/MWh) $ 38.6 Price of Electricity ($/MWh) $ 60.0 Gross
   Revenue ($) $ 251,447,040 Pre-tax Profit ($/year) $ 89,874,863 Notes
   (1) Development Costs include professional fees, permitting, interest
   during construction, startup, initial working capital, and development
   fees. (2) The total cost of generating electricity is the sum of the
   annual financing cost, annual O&M costs, and annual fuel costs. :
   BASELINE ASSUMPTIONS FOR TYPICAL POWER PLANT WITH 100% FINANCING Plant
   Output Plant Capacity (MW) 520 Capacity Factor 92% Annual Generation
   (MWh/yr) 4,190,784 Installation Costs Engineering, Procurement, and
   Construction Cost ($/kW) 500 Engineering, Procurement, and Construction
   Cost ($) $ 260,000,000 Development Costs ($/kW) (1) 200 Development
   Costs ($) (1) $ 104,000,000 Baseline Installation Cost ($/kW) $ 700
   Baseline Installation Cost ($) $ 364,000,000 Financing Costs Debt (% of
   Installation Cost) 100% Debt $ 364,000,000 Equity $ - Interest Rate
   7.0% Term (yr) 35 Capital Recovery Factor for Debt Payment 7.72% Annual
   Debt Payment ($) $ 28,113,161 Unit Cost of Debt ($/MWh) $ 6.7 Owner's
   Discount Rate 15.0% Project Life (years) 35 Capital Recovery Factor for
   NPV Calculation 15.11% Operation and Maintenance Costs Unit Cost of O &
   M ($/MWh) $ 8.0 Annual O&M Cost ($) $ 33,526,272 Fuel Costs Fuel Price
   ($/mmBtu, HHV) $ 4.00 Plant Heat Rate (Btu/kWh) 6,800 Annual Fuel
   Consumption (mmBtu) 28,497,331 Annual Fuel Cost ($) $ 113,989,325 Unit
   Cost of Fuel ($/MWh) $ 27.2 Total Cost of Generating Electricity (2)
   ($/year) $ 175,628,758 Total Unit Cost of Electricity ($/MWh) $ 41.9
   Price of Electricity ($/MWh) $ 60.0 Gross Revenue ($) $ 251,447,040
   Pre-tax Profit ($/year) $ 75,818,282 Notes (1) Development Costs
   include professional fees, permitting, interest during construction,
   startup, initial working capital, and development fees. (2) The total
   cost of generating electricity is the sum of the annual financing cost,
   annual O&M costs, and annual fuel costs. : SENSITIVITY OF WASHINGTON
   POWER PLANT NPV (50% FINANCING) Gas Price Electricity Price ($/MWh)
   $30.0 $40.0 $50.0 $60.0 $70.0 $80.0 $90.0 $100.0 $110.0 $120.0 $130.0 $
   2.00 $ (92) $ 102 $ 296 $ 491 $ 685 $ 879 $ 1,073 $ 1,267 $ 1,461 $
   1,655 $ 1,849 $ 2.50 $ (160) $ 34 $ 228 $ 422 $ 616 $ 810 $ 1,004 $
   1,198 $ 1,393 $ 1,587 $ 1,781 $ 3.00 $ (229) $ (35) $ 159 $ 353 $ 548 $
   742 $ 936 $ 1,130 $ 1,324 $ 1,518 $ 1,712 $ 3.50 $ (97) $ (103) $ 91 $
   285 $ 479 $ 673 $ 867 $ 1,061 $ 1,255 $ 1,450 $ 1,644 $ 4.00 $ (366) $
   (172) $ 22 $ 216 $ 411 $ 605 $ 799 $ 993 $ 1,187 $ 1,381 $ 1,575 $ 4.50
   $ (434) $ (240) $ (46) $ 148 $ 342 $ 536 $ 730 $ 924 $ 1,118 $ 1,312 $
   1,507 $ 5.00 $ (503) $ (309) $ (115) $ 79 $ 273 $ 468 $ 662 $ 856 $
   1,050 $ 1,244 $ 1,438 $ 5.50 $ (571) $ (377) $ (183) $ 11 $ 205 $ 399 $
   593 $ 787 $ 981 $ 1,175 $ 1,370 $ 6.00 $ (640) $ (446) $ (252) $ (58) $
   136 $ 330 $ 525 $ 719 $ 913 $ 1,107 $ 1,301 $ 6.50 $ (709) $ (514) $
   (320) $ (126) $ 68 $ 262 $ 456 $ 650 $ 844 $ 1,038 $ 1,232 $ 7.00 $
   (777) $ (583) $ (389) $ (195) $ (1) $ 193 $ 388 $ 582 $ 776 $ 970 $
   1,164 $ 7.50 $ (846) $ (652) $ (457) $ (263) $ (69) $ 125 $ 319 $ 513 $
   707 $ 901 $ 1,095 $ 8.00 $ (914) $ (720) $ (526) $ (332) $ (138) $ 56 $
   250 $ 445 $ 639 $ 833 $ 1,027 : SENSITIVITY OF OREGON POWER PLANT NPV
   (50% FINANCING) Gas Price Electricity Price ($/MWh) $ 30.0 $ 40.0 $
   50.0 $ 60.0 $ 70.0 $ 80.0 $ 90.0 $ 100.0 $ 110.0 $ 120.0 $ 130.0 $ 2.00
   $ (70) $ 112 $ 293 $ 474 $ 656 $ 837 $ 1,018 $ 1,199 $ 1,381 $ 1,562 $
   1,743 $ 2.50 $ (131) $ 50 $ 231 $ 413 $ 594 $ 775 $ 957 $ 1,138 $ 1,319
   $ 1,500 $ 1,682 $ 3.00 $ (193) $ (12) $ 170 $ 351 $ 532 $ 714 $ 895 $
   1,076 $ 1,257 $ 1,439 $ 1,620 $ 3.50 $ (255) $ (73) $ 108 $ 289 $ 471 $
   652 $ 833 $ 1,015 $ 1,196 $ 1,377 $ 1,558 $ 4.00 $ (316) $ (135) $ 46 $
   228 $ 409 $ 590 $ 772 $ 953 $ 1,134 $ 1,315 $ 1,497 $ 4.50 $ (378) $
   (196) $ (15) $ 166 $ 347 $ 529 $ 710 $ 891 $ 1,073 $ 1,254 $ 1,435 $
   5.00 $ (439) $ (258) $ (77) $ 104 $ 286 $ 467 $ 648 $ 830 $ 1,011 $
   1,192 $ 1,373 $ 5.50 $ (501) $ (320) $ (138) $ 43 $ 224 $ 405 $ 587 $
   768 $ 949 $ 1,131 $ 1,312 $ 6.00 $ (563) $ (381) $ (200) $ (19) $ 162 $
   344 $ 525 $ 706 $ 888 $ 1,069 $ 1,250 $ 6.50 $ (624) $ (443) $ (262) $
   (80) $ 101 $ 282 $ 463 $ 645 $ 826 $ 1,007 $ 1,189 $ 7.00 $ (686) $
   (505) $ (323) $ (142) $ 39 $ 220 $ 402 $ 583 $ 764 $ 946 $ 1,127 $ 7.50
   $ (748) $ (566) $ (385) $ (204) $ (22) $ 159 $ 340 $ 521 $ 703 $ 884 $
   1,065 $ 8.00 $ (809) $ (628) $ (447) $ (265) $ (84) $ 97 $ 278 $ 460 $
   641 $ 822 $ 1,004 : SENSITIVITY OF CALIFORNIA POWER PLANT NPV (50%
   FINANCING) Gas Price Electricity Price ($/MWh) $ 30.0 $ 40.0 $ 50.0 $
   60.0 $ 70.0 $ 80.0 $ 90.0 $ 100.0 $ 110.0 $ 120.0 $ 130.0 $ 2.00 $ (82)
   $ 95 $ 271 $ 448 $ 625 $ 802 $ 979 $ 1,156 $ 1,333 $ 1,510 $ 1,687 $
   2.50 $ (143) $ 34 $ 211 $ 388 $ 565 $ 742 $ 919 $ 1,096 $ 1,273 $ 1,450
   $ 1,627 $ 3.00 $ (203) $ (26) $ 151 $ 328 $ 505 $ 682 $ 859 $ 1,036 $
   1,213 $ 1,390 $ 1,567 $ 3.50 $ (263) $ (86) $ 91 $ 268 $ 445 $ 622 $
   799 $ 976 $ 1,153 $ 1,330 $ 1,507 $ 4.00 $ (323) $ (146) $ 31 $ 208 $
   385 $ 562 $ 739 $ 916 $ 1,092 $ 1,269 $ 1,446 $ 4.50 $ (383) $ (206) $
   (29) $ 148 $ 325 $ 501 $ 678 $ 855 $ 1,032 $ 1,209 $ 1,386 $ 5.00 $
   (443) $ (266) $ (90) $ 87 $ 264 $ 441 $ 618 $ 795 $ 972 $ 1,149 $ 1,326
   $ 5.50 $ (504) $ (327) $ (150) $ 27 $ 204 $ 381 $ 558 $ 735 $ 912 $
   1,089 $ 1,266 $ 6.00 $ (564) $ (387) $ (210) $ (33) $ 144 $ 321 $ 498 $
   675 $ 852 $ 1,029 $ 1,206 $ 6.50 $ (624) $ (447) $ (270) $ (93) $ 84 $
   261 $ 438 $ 615 $ 792 $ 969 $ 1,146 $ 7.00 $ (684) $ (507) $ (330) $
   (153) $ 24 $ 201 $ 378 $ 555 $ 731 $ 908 $ 1,085 $ 7.50 $ (744) $ (567)
   $ (390) $ (213) $ (36) $ 141 $ 317 $ 494 $ 671 $ 848 $ 1,025 $ 8.00 $
   (804) $ (627) $ (450) $ (274) $ (97) $ 80 $ 257 $ 434 $ 611 $ 788 $ 965
   : SENSITIVITY OF WASHINGTON POWER PLANT NPV (100% FINANCING) Gas Price
   Electricity Price ($/MWh) $ 30.0 $ 40.0 $ 50.0 $ 60.0 $ 70.0 $ 80.0 $
   90.0 $ 100.0 $ 110.0 $ 120.0 $ 130.0 $ 2.00 $ 62 $ 256 $ 450 $ 644 $
   839 $ 1,033 $ 1,227 $ 1,421 $ 1,615 $ 1,809 $ 2,003 $ 2.50 $ (6) $ 188
   $ 382 $ 576 $ 770 $ 964 $ 1,158 $ 1,352 $ 1,546 $ 1,741 $ 1,935 $ 3.00
   $ (75) $ 119 $ 313 $ 507 $ 701 $ 896 $ 1,090 $ 1,284 $ 1,478 $ 1,672 $
   1,866 $ 3.50 $ (143) $ 51 $ 245 $ 439 $ 633 $ 827 $ 1,021 $ 1,215 $
   1,409 $ 1,603 $ 1,798 $ 4.00 $ (212) $ (18) $ 176 $ 370 $ 564 $ 759 $
   953 $ 1,147 $ 1,341 $ 1,535 $ 1,729 $ 4.50 $ (281) $ (86) $ 108 $ 302 $
   496 $ 690 $ 884 $ 1,078 $ 1,272 $ 1,466 $ 1,660 $ 5.00 $ (349) $ (155)
   $ 39 $ 233 $ 427 $ 621 $ 816 $ 1,010 $ 1,204 $ 1,398 $ 1,592 $ 5.50 $
   (418) $ (224) $ (29) $ 165 $ 359 $ 553 $ 747 $ 941 $ 1,135 $ 1,329 $
   1,523 $ 6.00 $ (486) $ (292) $ (98) $ 96 $ 290 $ 484 $ 678 $ 873 $
   1,067 $ 1,261 $ 1,455 $ 6.50 $ (555) $ (361) $ (166) $ 28 $ 222 $ 416 $
   610 $ 804 $ 998 $ 1,192 $ 1,386 $ 7.00 $ (623) $ (429) $ (235) $ (41) $
   153 $ 347 $ 541 $ 735 $ 930 $ 1,124 $ 1,318 $ 7.50 $ (692) $ (498) $
   (304) $ (109) $ 85 $ 279 $ 473 $ 667 $ 861 $ 1,055 $ 1,249 $ 8.00 $
   (760) $ (566) $ (372) $ (178) $ 16 $ 210 $ 404 $ 598 $ 793 $ 987 $
   1,181 : SENSITIVITY OF OREGON POWER PLANT NPV (100% FINANCING) Gas
   Electricity Price ($/MWh) Price $ 30.0 $ 40.0 $ 50.0 $ 60.0 $ 70.0 $
   80.0 $ 90.0 $ 100.0 $ 110.0 $ 120.0 $ 130.0 $ 2.00 $ 86 $ 268 $ 449 $
   630 $ 811 $ 993 $ 1,174 $ 1,355 $ 1,537 $ 1,718 $ 1,899 $ 2.50 $ 25 $
   206 $ 387 $ 568 $ 750 $ 931 $ 1,112 $ 1,294 $ 1,475 $ 1,656 $ 1,837 $
   3.00 $ (37) $ 144 $ 326 $ 507 $ 688 $ 869 $ 1,051 $ 1,232 $ 1,413 $
   1,595 $ 1,776 $ 3.50 $ (99) $ 83 $ 264 $ 445 $ 626 $ 808 $ 989 $ 1,170
   $ 1,352 $ 1,533 $ 1,714 $ 4.00 $ (160) $ 21 $ 202 $ 384 $ 565 $ 746 $
   927 $ 1,109 $ 1,290 $ 1,471 $ 1,653 $ 4.50 $ (222) $ (41) $ 141 $ 322 $
   503 $ 684 $ 866 $ 1,047 $ 1,228 $ 1,410 $ 1,591 $ 5.00 $ (284) $ (102)
   $ 79 $ 260 $ 442 $ 623 $ 804 $ 985 $ 1,167 $ 1,348 $ 1,529 $ 5.50 $
   (345) $ (164) $ 17 $ 199 $ 380 $ 561 $ 742 $ 924 $ 1,105 $ 1,286 $
   1,468 $ 6.00 $ (407) $ (226) $ (44) $ 137 $ 318 $ 500 $ 681 $ 862 $
   1,043 $ 1,225 $ 1,406 $ 6.50 $ (469) $ (287) $ (106) $ 75 $ 257 $ 438 $
   619 $ 801 $ 982 $ 1,163 $ 1,344 $ 7.00 $ (530) $ (349) $ (168) $ 14 $
   195 $ 376 $ 558 $ 739 $ 920 $ 1,101 $ 1,283 $ 7.50 $ (592) $ (411) $
   (229) $ (48) $ 133 $ 315 $ 496 $ 677 $ 859 $ 1,040 $ 1,221 $ 8.00 $
   (653) $ (472) $ (291) $ (110) $ 72 $ 253 $ 434 $ 616 $ 797 $ 978 $
   1,159 : SENSITIVITY OF CALIFORNIA POWER PLANT NPV (100% FINANCING) Gas
   Price Electricity Price ($/MWh) $ 30.0 $ 40.0 $ 50.0 $ 60.0 $ 70.0 $
   80.0 $ 90.0 $ 100.0 $ 110.0 $ 120.0 $ 130.0 $ 2.00 $ 83 $ 260 $ 437 $
   614 $ 791 $ 968 $ 1,145 $ 1,322 $ 1,499 $ 1,676 $ 1,853 $ 2.50 $ 23 $
   200 $ 377 $ 554 $ 731 $ 908 $ 1,085 $ 1,262 $ 1,439 $ 1,616 $ 1,793 $
   3.00 $ (37) $ 140 $ 317 $ 494 $ 671 $ 848 $ 1,025 $ 1,202 $ 1,379 $
   1,556 $ 1,732 $ 3.50 $ (97) $ 80 $ 257 $ 434 $ 611 $ 788 $ 965 $ 1,141
   $ 1,318 $ 1,495 $ 1,672 $ 4.00 $ (157) $ 20 $ 197 $ 374 $ 550 $ 727 $
   904 $ 1,081 $ 1,258 $ 1,435 $ 1,612 $ 4.50 $ (217) $ (41) $ 136 $ 313 $
   490 $ 667 $ 844 $ 1,021 $ 1,198 $ 1,375 $ 1,552 $ 5.00 $ (278) $ (101)
   $ 76 $ 253 $ 430 $ 607 $ 784 $ 961 $ 1,138 $ 1,315 $ 1,492 $ 5.50 $
   (338) $ (161) $ 16 $ 193 $ 370 $ 547 $ 724 $ 901 $ 1,078 $ 1,255 $
   1,432 $ 6.00 $ (398) $ (221) $ (44) $ 133 $ 310 $ 487 $ 664 $ 841 $
   1,018 $ 1,195 $ 1,372 $ 6.50 $ (458) $ (281) $ (104) $ 73 $ 250 $ 427 $
   604 $ 781 $ 957 $ 1,134 $ 1,311 $ 7.00 $ (518) $ (341) $ (164) $ 13 $
   190 $ 366 $ 543 $ 720 $ 897 $ 1,074 $ 1,251 $ 7.50 $ (578) $ (401) $
   (225) $ (48) $ 129 $ 306 $ 483 $ 660 $ 837 $ 1,014 $ 1,191 $ 8.00 $
   (639) $ (462) $ (285) $ (108) $ 69 $ 246 $ 423 $ 600 $ 777 $ 954 $
   1,131 PM10 offsets may be required in all states under investigation.
   SO2 and HC offsets would be negligible compared to NOx due to the low
   emissions from natural gas-fired plants. State property tax may vary
   depending on voter-approved local assessments. The Washington Public
   Utility Tax applies to gross receipts realized by all light and power
   businesses. However, because sales for resale, inside or outside
   Washington, or sales for consumption outside Washington are deducted
   from gross receipts before computing the tax, most developers would be
   unaffected by this tax. In the event Washington imposes a carbon
   dioxide emissions mitigation requirement substantially similar to the
   Oregon requirement, the total installation cost could increase by an
   additional $5.5 million, depending on plant capacity and thermal
   efficiency.
