http://smith.senate.gov/Releases/Releases/01242002.HTM

   Sen. Bob Smith

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   January 24, 2001

                         CONTACT: Lisa Harrison
                         PHONE: (202) 224-2841

                Smith Announces Service Academy Appointments

   WASHINGTON, DC: U.S. Senator Bob Smith (R-NH) today announced today the
   names of 32 New Hampshire high school students that he has nominated to
   the various Service Academies. A congressional appointment is required
   to gain entrance to the four military academies.

   "As a veteran the son of a Naval Academy graduate I take great pride in
   the opportunity to nominate young men and women as candidates to the
   United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United
   States Merchant Marine Academy, and United States Military Academy at
   West Point," stated Smith. "To have so many of my nominees receive
   appointments is truly an honor and a credit to these highly qualified
   New Hampshire students."

   Appointments were awarded to the following candidates:

   United States Merchant Marine Academy: David Davidson of Deerfield and
   Todd White of Bedford.

   U.S. Military Academy: Robert Bergan of Exeter, Sean Cummings of
   Amherst, Thomas Dyrenforth of Chororua, Timothy Granfield of Dover,
   Michael Grobecker of Salem, Peter Heuchling of Durham, Julie Jorgensen
   of Bedford, Lindsey McNamara of Rochester, Daniel Parker of Concord and
   Jessica Pinkham of Dover.

   U.S. Naval Academy: Dennis Chenette of Hooksett, Joseph Dolan of
   Manchester, Shawn Hogan of Salem, Charles Lyon of Mount Vernon, Myles
   Matteson of Epsom, Aaron Mayer of Lee, Evelyn Mervine of Spofford,
   Seamus O'Brien of Laconia, Jonathan Van Arsdell of Bedford and Addam
   Van Horn of Amherst.

   U.S. Air Force Academy: Brett Bailey of Salisbury, Alec Bassos of
   Amherst, Brad Berthelotte of Nashua, Colleen Galloway of Amherst,
   Gerald Hopkins of Nashua, Katharine Lary of Canaan, William Mac Vittie
   of New London, Lindsey McNamara of Rochester, Aaron Prescott of Derry
   and Jennifer Randall of Exeter.

                                    -30-
