http://www.fletc.gov/irm/foia.htm

   Federal Law Enforcement Training Center



                      FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
                                     AND
                         PRIVACY ACT (PA) HOME PAGE

                              blue bar graphic

   blue ball Guide for Obtaining Information Using the FOIA & PA
   blue ball Electronic Reading Room (Includes Frequently Requested
   Records)
   blue ball Point of Contact
   blue ball Policy & Guidance
   blue ball Reference Materials
   blue ball Major Information Systems of the FLETC

                                  blue bar

   The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) gives you the right to access any
   Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) record unless the
   information in the record is protected by one of nine exemptions and
   (1) disclosure is prohibited by law or Executive order, or (2)
   disclosure could result in harm to an individual, commercial entity, or
   the Government.

   The Privacy Act (PA) provides safeguards against an invasion of privacy
   through the misuse of records by Federal agencies.  In general, the PA
   allows citizens to learn how records are collected, maintained, used,
   and disseminated by the Federal Government.  The PA also permits
   individuals to gain access to most of their personal information
   maintained by Federal agencies and to seek amendment of any incorrect
   or incomplete information.
   If you are seeking general information about the FLETC, you may wish to
   visit FLETC's Home Page.  The information you are seeking may be
   available via our web site or in our Electronic Reading Room.   If it
   is not, you will need to submit a FOIA Request to the FLETC.  Our
   responsibility is to provide you with copies of the documents you are
   entitled to receive under the law.  We want to work with you to achieve
   that goal.
   Disclaimer:  To the extent that anything included on this home page may
   be or could be construed as inconsistent with the law or Department of
   the Treasury directives, the law and directives will control the
   FLETC's responsibilities under the FOIA.

                              blue bar graphic

                            [USEMAP:1bottom.gif]

                This page was last updated on July 10, 2001.
