http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/analysis_monitoring/enso_advisory/


    Climate Prediction Center Banner

    Skip Navigation Links



    HOME
    Outreach
    Expert Assessment
    El Niño/La Niña Home


                     EL NIÑO/SOUTHERN OSCILLATION (ENSO)
                            DIAGNOSTIC DISCUSSION

                                  issued by
                       CLIMATE PREDICTION CENTER/NCEP

                               January 9, 2002

    The evolution towards a warm episode in the tropical Pacific
    continued during December 2001, as enhanced convection developed
    over the equatorial central Pacific for the first time since the
    1997-98 El Niño episode. In addition, the Tahiti-Darwin SOI (-1.2)
    and the equatorial SOI (-0.8) were the lowest since early 1998. By
    early January 2002 equatorial SST anomalies increased to +1°C at the
    date line (Fig. 1).

    In recent months, many tropical Pacific atmospheric and oceanic
    variables have been strongly modulated by intraseasonal (30-60 day)
    fluctuations, associated with the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO).
    Low-level wind fluctuations over the central and western tropical
    Pacific have been consistent with this activity. Significant
    low-level westerly wind anomalies occurred over the western
    equatorial Pacific during mid-October. November featured a return to
    easterly anomalies in this region during the first three weeks,
    followed by westerly anomalies during late November. December
    featured significant low-level westerly anomalies over the western
    equatorial Pacific during the first half of the month and over the
    west-central equatorial Pacific during the second half of the month,
    as the period of the MJO appeared to lengthen. This activity
    generated a strong eastward propagating oceanic Kelvin wave that
    contributed to the deepening of the oceanic thermocline and an
    increase in subsurface temperature anomalies in the vicinity of the
    date line (Fig. 2). The magnitude of this Kelvin wave suggests that
    an increase in SST anomalies, with negative anomalies possibly being
    replaced by positive anomalies, is likely to occur in the eastern
    Pacific in late January or early February.

    The latest statistical and coupled model predictions show a spread
    ranging from near-normal to moderate warm episode conditions over
    the next 3-6 months. All of these prediction techniques have
    difficulty in making skillful forecasts during ENSO transition
    periods. Considering the observed oceanic and atmospheric
    circulation patterns and their recent evolution, it seems most
    likely that warm-episode conditions will develop in the tropical
    Pacific during the next 3-6 months.

    Weekly updates for SST, 850-hPa wind, OLR and the equatorial
    subsurface temperature structure are available on the Climate
    Prediction Center homepage at: http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov (Weekly
    Update).  Forecasts for the evolution of El Niño/La Niña are updated
    monthly in CPC's Climate Diagnostics Bulletin Forecast Forum. To
    receive an e-mail notification when updated ENSO Diagnostic
    Discussions are released please send your e-mail address to:

                          Climate Prediction Center
    National Centers for Environmental Prediction
    NOAA/National Weather Service
    Camp Springs, MD 20746-4304
    e-mail: vernon.kousky@noaa.gov
