http://camex.msfc.nasa.gov

   CAMEX-4 LOGO Graphic The Fourth Graphic Graphic Nasa Logo
   CAMEX-4 Logo Graphic Convection and Moisture Experiment
   Graphic Grapic
   Calendar  |  Related Sites  |  Satellite Tracks  | Data & Reports
   Graphic

   Instruments:
   Aerosonde
   Andros Island
   NASA DC-8
   NASA ER-2
   KAMP

   Participants:
   Managers
   Principal Investigators
   Co-Investigators
   Support Personnel
   Aircrew

   Hurricane & Flight Tracks
   Hurricane Tracks
   Flight Tracks

   News & Information:
   Aircraft
   Camex-4 News
   NASA Hurricane News
   MSFC Newsroom
   CAMEX-4 Gallery
   CAMEX-4 Diary
   CAMEX-3 Website

   Flight Plans:
   Key West Thunderstorm
   COVES
   Quantitative Precipitation
   Data Assimilation
   Andros Island Aerosonde

   Surface Data Sites:
   Andros Island Rawinsondes
   TRMM KAMP



   The Convection And Moisture EXperiment (CAMEX) is a series of field
   research investigations sponsored by the Earth Science Enterprise of
   the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The fourth
   field campaign in the CAMEX series (CAMEX-4) is scheduled for 16 August
   - 24 September, 2001 and is based out of Jacksonville Naval Air
   Station, Florida.

   CAMEX-4 is focused on the study of tropical cyclone (hurricane)
   development, tracking, intensification, and landfalling impacts using
   NASA-funded aircraft and surface remote sensing instrumentation. The
   primary aircraft used during CAMEX-4 are the NASA DC-8 and ER-2
   research airborne platforms. These instrumented aircraft will fly over,
   through, and around selected hurricanes as they approach landfall in
   the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and along the east coast of the United
   States. The NASA aircraft will investigate upper altitude regions of
   the hurricane not normally sampled. Where possible, measurements will
   be compared and validated with coincident observations from the
   QuikSCAT, Terra, and Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission satellites.
   This study will yield high spatial and temporal information of
   hurricane structure, dynamics, and motion. These data, when analyzed
   within the context of more traditional aircraft, satellite, and
   ground-based radar observations,should provide additional insight to
   hurricane modelers and forecasters who continually strive to improve
   hurricane predictions. More accurate hurricane predictions at landfall
   will result in decreasing the size of necessary coastal evacuations and
   increasing the warning time for those areas.

   While remote sensing of the hurricane environment is the primary
   objective of CAMEX-4, there will also be separate flights to study
   thunderstorm structure, precipitation systems, and atmospheric water
   vapor profiles. This portion of CAMEX-4 is known as KAMP, Keys Area
   Microphysics Project. The objective of the KAMP flights is to improve
   quantitative precipitation estimates from passive and active microwave
   instruments.

   The DC-8 will be based at Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Florida.
   Aircraft operations will be within a 1500 nm radius of Jacksonville.
   The KAMP flights will be approximately 300 nm from the air station near
   Key West Florida. The NASA DC-8 and ER-2 are the primary aircraft
   platforms for CAMEX-4. NASA will also be funding the flight of several
   unmanned aerial vehicles called the AEROSONDE.

   Dr. Ramesh Kakar (Program Manager for Atmospheric Dynamics and Remote
   Sensing at NASA Headquarters) is the CAMEX-4 sponsor. CAMEX-4 is
   conducted in collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration (NOAA) Hurricane Research Division and the United States
   Weather Research Program (USWRP).

                      Click on image for larger version
   EDOP nadir radar reflectivity (left) and Doppler velocity (right) in an
    east-west section across the Dominican Republic and its main mountain
      ridge around 23:15 UTC on 22 September 1998. The Doppler velocity
     includes both air motion and hydrometeor fallspeed. This image was
                 taken during the CAMEX-3 field experiment.

   CAMEX-4 Region of interest
   CAMEX-4 region of interest with range rings centered on Jacksonville
   Naval Air Station (JAX NAS). The research aircraft will typically fly
   tropical cyclones in the Atlantic, Caribbean or Gulf of Mexico within
   800 nautical miles of the Jacksonville base of operations.

   Click Here To View GOES-8 Imagery
   Click Image to View the Latest GOES-8 Infrared Satellite Imagery

   Click on image for larger version
   Four passive microwave observations, at different frequencies, of
   Hurricane Bonnie as viewed by the AMPR instrument aboard the NASA ER-2.
   Each frequency detects varying amounts of precipitation, water vapor,
   and cloud ice crystals (26 Aug 1998).
   Last Modified:
   01/18/2002 NASA Official: Dr. Jim Arnold NASA Contact: Michael Goodman
   Site Curator: Danny Hardin
     Hosted by the GHRC

   NASA Privacy Statement
   Designed by the ITSC
       Government Compliance
