http://www.iig.ca.gov/links/other.shtml


                            Welcome to California
                            California Home

   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                               Innovation Home



                                 Initiatives




                    * CALFED Task Force
                    * California Scorecard
                    * Clarity Award
                    * DMV of the Future
                    * e-Business Center
                    * e-California
                    * Grant Funds Portal
                    * Life Event & Affinity Design (LEAD)
                    * Tracking Customer Satisfaction
                    * Vehicle Registration Internet Renewal



                                Publications




                   * Annual Report
                     The year in review
                   * Innovation-Gram
                     Innovative highlights
                   * New Century Express
                     In-depth quality coverage
                   * Innovative Stories
                     Cool stuff happening now
                   * Reference Materials
                     Handy guides and presentations
                   * In The News
                     What others are saying about Innovation



                                  Partners




                      * Office of Planning & Research

                    Office of Planning and Research logo


               Governor's Office for Innovation in Government

                       Links to Other Innovative Sites

   These are links to other interesting and informative websites related
   to innovation, customer service, performance measurement and
   organizational excellence. These links are offered as a public service,
   and listing on this page does not imply an endorsement, nor is the
   Governor's Office for Innovation in Government responsible for the
   content on these sites. If you know of a site that you think should be
   included, please e-mail Russell Snyder at
   Russell.Snyder@innovation.ca.gov.

   RESEARCH CENTERS
   Institute for Government Innovation, John F. Kennedy School of
   Government, Harvard University
   The Institute for Government Innovation, funded by the Ford Foundation,
   is designed to serve as the hub for a global network of public-sector
   innovators and other interested practitioners, students, policy
   analysts, and journalists concerned with excellence in government.
   Center for Social Innovation, Stanford University
   The primary goal of the Center for Social Innovation, created by the
   Stanford University Graduate School of Business, is to inform, shape,
   and accelerate a growing movement aimed at bringing the strengths of
   the entrepreneur and business acumen into the social arena. CSI pursues
   this goal by promoting rigorous, practice-oriented research, adopting
   an interdisciplinary approach, and reaching out to engage academics and
   leading practitioners in a process of mutual education.
   Center for Digital Innovation, UCLA
   The UCLA Center for Digital Innovation is a University-wide resource
   established to deliver digital information and to examine its likely
   effects on society.
   Fisher Center for Information Technology and Marketplace
   Transformation, University of California, Berkeley
   The Fisher Center for Information Technology and Marketplace
   Transformation is part of the Fisher Center for the Strategic Use of
   Information Technology at the Haas School of Business. CITM is a
   research center studying issues related to information technology and
   e-Business. Specific emphasis includes Business-to-Business e-Commerce
   including e-Procurement, e-Negotiation and e-Coordination, and
   e-Business Transformation.
   Institute for Governmental Services, University of California, Berkeley
   The Institute of Governmental Studies (IGS) is an organized research
   unit of the University of California, Berkeley. Born in 1919 as the
   Bureau of Public Administration, IGS has become the University of
   California's primary center for interdisciplinary research in politics,
   government, and public policy.
   Institute of Management, Innovation & Organization, University of
   California, Berkeley
   Formerly known as the Center for Research in Management, the Institute
   of Management, Innovation & Organization was originally founded in 1961
   to advance research in what was then the emerging field of "management
   science," and in 1978 it formally broadened that mandate to include
   interdisciplinary approaches to the problems of management, technology,
   organization, law and public policy.

   GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY
   Office of Statewide Continuous Improvement, California Department of
   Personnel Administration
   Office dedicated to supporting the success of other state departments
   and offices, with expertise in Quality and customer service. Among many
   of OSCI's products and services include a pre-qualified list of
   consultants, access to a state government Quality and facilitator
   network, and The New Century Express newsletter.
   Governing for Results, State of Washington
   The State of Washington's "Governing for Results" initiative, in which
   all state agencies are called upon to develop and implement a program
   to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the public
   services they provide.
   The Government Performance Project, Governing Magazine
   The biannual management report cards issued by the editors of Governing
   Magazine, which ranks all 50 states based on objective and subjective
   data in five categories: financial management, capital management,
   human resources, managing for results and information technology.
   Oregon Shines, Oregon Progress Board
   The Oregon Progress Board is an independent state planning and
   oversight agency. Created by the Legislature in 1989 to keep Oregon
   focused on the future, the Board is responsible for implementing the
   state's 20-year strategic plan, Oregon Shines. The Progress Board
   focuses Oregon's institutions on outcomes that support the overall
   goals of Oregon Shines: Quality jobs for all Oregonians; safe, caring
   and engaged communities; and healthy, sustainable surroundings. The
   Progress Board tracks these outcomes through 92 indicators known as the
   Oregon Benchmarks.
   Show Me Results, Missouri
   Show Me Results is a set of priority outcomes that benefit Missouri
   citizens. The Show Me Results initiative, begun in 1997, is a
   management tool for the Governor and his cabinet to help keep
   government focused on results. State departments focus their planning
   and budget efforts on these priorities. The Show Me Results effort
   encourages fact-based decision making and innovation and recognizes the
   need for agencies to work together to drive significant improvements in
   the results. The five main areas of focus are: Prosperous Missourians;
   Educated Missourians; Healthy Missourians; Safe Missourians and
   Responsible Government.
   Virginia Results, Commonwealth of Virginia
   Virginia's managing for results system is comprised of four, linked
   processes: strategic planning, performance measurement, program
   evaluation, and performance budgeting. Because the processes are
   designed to work together to manage the performance of state
   government, the system is referred to as the Virginia's "performance
   management" system.
   Gold and Green, Institute for Southern Studies
   An ambitious compilation of data that attempts to show the relationship
   between "gold" (economic) measures and "green" (environmental)
   measures.

   ORGANIZATIONS
   The Association for Quality and Participation (AQP)
   The Association for Quality and Participation is an international
   not-for-profit membership association dedicated to improving workplaces
   through quality and participation practices. Founded in 1977, AQP has
   helped countless individuals, organizations and communities establish a
   foundation for initiating change in the way they operate. AQP improves
   institutions, both large and small, by changing the way companies view
   their work, their relationships, their organizational structures and
   their communications.
   Public Employees Roundtable
   The Public Employees Roundtable (PER) is a non-profit, non-partisan
   coalition of organizations representing more than 1 million public
   employees working together to: Better inform citizens about the quality
   of people in government and the value of the services they provide;
   encourage excellence and esprit de corps within government; and promote
   interest in public service careers.
   Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, National Institute of
   Standards and Technology
   Congress established the award program in 1987 to recognize U.S.
   organizations for their achievements in quality and business
   performance and to raise awareness about the importance of quality and
   performance excellence as a competitive edge. While the Baldrige Award
   and the Baldrige recipients are the very visible centerpiece of the
   U.S. quality movement, a broader national quality program has evolved
   around the award and its criteria. The U.S. Commerce Department's
   National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) manages the
   Baldrige National Quality Program in close cooperation with the private
   sector.
   California Council for Excellence
   The California Council for Excellence (CCE) is a non-profit, tax-exempt
   foundation administered by a professional staff under the leadership
   and direction of its Board of Directors. The mission of CCE is to help
   California's private and public organizations achieve world-class
   service and products through the principles and criteria of the Malcolm
   Baldrige National Quality Award. CCE administers the California version
   of the Baldrige Award, the California Award for Performance Excellence.
   Sacramento Area Council for Excellence
   The Sacramento-area regional council of the California Council for
   Excellence. SacE promotes the sharing of best practices in the public
   and private sector through educational conferences and other programs.
   American Society for Quality
   The American Society for Quality (ASQ) has been the leading quality
   improvement organization in the United States for more than 50 years.
   Its members have initiated most of the quality methods used throughout
   the world, including statistical process control, quality cost
   measurement and control, total quality management, failure analysis,
   and zero defects.
   American Society for Quality, Sacramento Section
   The Sacramento Section of ASQ is committed to advance both individual
   and organizational performance excellence throughout the Sacramento
   Valley by providing opportunities for learning, enlightened knowledge
   exchange and professional growth for its membership.
   American Customer Service Index
   The American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) is an economic
   indicator that measures customer satisfaction. In the ACSI, customer's
   evaluations of quality are based on actual experiences with the goods
   and services being measured. In existence since 1994, the ASCI began
   publishing an index for federal agencies in 1999.
   U.S. Foundation for Performance Measurement
   The Foundation is a membership association of educators, business,
   government, and consultant specialists interested in improving
   organizational performance.
   Performance Measurement for Government
   Sponsored by the Rutgers University Financial Accounting Foundation and
   the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, the website is devoted to
   the use and reporting of performance measures for government services.

   PUBLICATIONS
   Fast Company
   Launched in November 1995 by Alan Webber and Bill Taylor, two former
   Harvard Business Review editors, Fast Company magazine was founded on a
   single premise: A global revolution was changing business, and business
   was changing the world. Discarding the old rules of business, Fast
   Company set to chronicle how changing companies create and compete, to
   highlight new business practices, and to showcase the teams and
   individuals who are inventing the future and reinventing business.
   Quality Digest
   Monthly magazine that covers the latest in Quality improvement trends
   and techniques, ISO, SPC, Six Sigma and other disciplines of interest
   to the Quality professional.
   Governing Magazine
   Magazine devoted to the business of government, including spotlighting
   some of the most innovative approaches to managing at the local, state
   and federal level.
   New Century Express
   Newsletter highlighting innovative approaches and projects in
   California state government.

   ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE
   Basic Context for Organizational Change
   Sponsored by the Management Assistance Program for Non-Profits,
   contains a wealth of information related to organizational change.
   Meaningful Workplace
   Strategies and tools for bringing out the best in people at work. The
   website is dedicated to boosting individual job satisfaction, and to
   increase employee satisfaction in a team, department, or entire
   organization.

   ORGANIZATION SUPPORT
   The Division of Science, Technology and Innovation
   The Technology Trade & Commerce Agency, Division of Science, Technology
   and Innovation (DSTI) is the State's leading organization for
   technology-based development. DSTI provides assististance with their
   business services, support in introducing products to the market, and
   millions of dollars in grants.

   (Updated November 29, 2001)



                              __________ search
                                 (*)  My CA


                           To flexyourpower.ca.gov
                           Other Energy Links

                               Event Calendar


                         * Executive Leadership Forum

                            Innovative Resources


                 * Office of Statewide Continuous Improvement
                 * All States Quality Forum
                 * Links to Innovative Resources

                                 Employment


                          * Seeking Professionals
                          * Seeking Interns
                          * Seeking Graduate Students

                  Questions, Comments, Complaints or Kudos


                               Russell Snyder
                           info@innovation.ca.gov
                           916-445-1176


                             State of California

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
