http://exportit.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf/e7445254234489d885256547004dddd5/f8db7f2f2dd0c344852568db0070155e/$FILE/Japan.PDF

   Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 E XPORTIT JAPAN
   OVERVIEW OF JAPAN'S INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE MARKETS August 2000 This
   market brief was prepared by Elizabeth Rowland and Danielle Kriz, under
   the direction of Tim Miles, Office of Information Technologies
   (http://exportIT.ita.doc.gov), International Trade Administration, U.S.
   Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. Valuable comments were
   received from U.S. Department of Commerce colleagues in Tokyo and
   Washington, D.C. This brief describes and analyzes the trends and key
   issues in Internet and e-commerce adoption in Japan, to create a
   framework from which U.S. IT small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
   can understand the Japanese market. Careful market research, thorough
   planning, and detailed strategies will pay dividends. INTRODUCTION
   economic recovery and the growing use of With the second largest
   economy in the the Internet, computer networking, and e- world, and a
   gross domestic product (GDP) commerce. per capita higher than that of
   the United States, Japan has a large and growing According to a recent
   Ministry of Posts and information technology (IT) market.
   Telecommunications (MPT) report, 27 Although the prolonged economic
   stagnation million people3 use the Internet in Japan, or of the past
   decade dampened the growth rate one out of every five citizens, an
   increase of in IT spending by Japanese organizations in ten million
   users from 1998. More than one recent years, IT investments are rising.
   third of these users access the Internet via Japan's IT equipment and
   services market, mobile phones. The Economist Intelligence surpassed
   only by that of the United States1, Unit's recently compiled
   "E-Business- should reach an estimated $192.5 billion2 in Readiness
   Rankings" placed Japan 21 out of 2000 and is expected to grow 20
   percent 60 countries evaluated for e-business annually to $1.2 trillion
   by 2010. Investment environment and connectivity, underscoring in
   hardware, software, and services related that the market remains
   underdeveloped. to IT is anticipated to be spurred by The growing use
   of the Internet and e- commerce, combined with liberalization of 1If
   the 15 countries of the European Union (EU) are counted as one market,
   the EU's IT market is 3 larger than that of Japan. MPT's Internet
   penetration rates are higher than those from other sources. Access
   Media 2¥21.1 trillion. Unless otherwise noted, the International
   recently reported 19.4 million exchange rate used in this paper is
   $1=¥110. All Internet users in Japan, while Media Metrix reported
   dollar figures are in U.S. dollars. 16.4 million as of April 2000. 1
   Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 the
   telecommunications sector, will provide Internet and e-mail. However,
   most PC U.S. high tech SMEs a number of niche demand comes from
   corporations who want opportunities within the Japanese market, to
   supply more employees with these especially in Internet- and
   e-commerce- machines, particularly to give more workers related
   software and services. However, access to the Internet. Portable
   computers U.S. firms should understand the closely represent nearly
   half of all PC shipments in related computer and software markets,
   Japan. Japanese consumers' tastes and tendencies, and be ready to make
   long-term commitments Demand for midrange computers, such as to the
   market and possibly use alternative servers, remains relatively strong
   as well, methods to penetrate it. because of the increasing number of
   client PCs, growing use of groupware and file TRENDS IN COMPUTER
   HARDWARE sharing, and the need to store more AND SOFTWARE information
   such as databases and web sites. Japan's computer market is growing.
   U.S. In contrast, mainframe demand has fallen Department of Commerce
   market specialists gradually over the past five years as users in Tokyo
   report that the market's revenues have downsized to client-server
   systems. reached $50 billion in 2000. Demand had fallen in recent years
   due to the country's Japanese computer suppliers such as Fujitsu,
   prolonged recession, but is growing again Hitachi, and NEC are very
   competitive in a with the improving Japanese economy, due to wide
   variety of computer systems, from PCs various factors significant price
   to supercomputers, and use this strength to competition, expansion of
   the consumer supply complete systems. U.S. firms such as market,
   purchases for Y2K remediation, the IBM, Apple, Compaq, Dell, and
   Gateway increasing use of the Internet, and the also compete there,
   having a stronger deployment of e-business strategies. In presence in
   the private sector market than in addition, a growing number of
   Japanese firms the public sector. U.S. suppliers' share of are
   investing in and upgrading computers and Japan's computer market
   (public and private related infrastructures, such as local area sector
   combined) was estimated to be nearly networks (LANs) and extranets, to
   increase 25 percent in 1999. efficiency and productivity and improve
   competitiveness. In 1999, 90 percent of mid- Demand for software is
   surging and large-sized Japanese firms had LANs As hardware sales surge
   along with installed. increasing Internet use, new and sophisticated
   software is in demand. Japan's PC sales in Japan reached 10.8 million
   units software market reached revenues of $12.4 in 1999, an increase of
   36 percent from 1998. billion in 1999, a 10 percent increase from The
   PC market was valued at approximately 1998. Business process
   re-engineering is $20 billion in mid-2000. Increased PC gaining the
   attention of Japanese businesses, home penetration explains part of the
   growth spurring strong demand for software to in PC sales, since
   Japanese workers who use improve efficiency, namely database a computer
   at work are realizing its potential management systems (DBMS), customer
   and wanting to own one at home for both the relationship management
   (CRM), and 2 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000
   groupware software. Many Japanese firms and applications outsourcing,
   of which the are starting to implement e-commerce latter is expected to
   become more popular as strategies, and demand for Internet and e- more
   and more Japanese SMEs turn to commerce-related software is predicted
   to be application services providers (ASPs) to very high in the coming
   years. In addition to outsource and save money on certain IT
   sophisticated software, the rise in the PC functions. penetration rate
   is in turn spurring demand for various types of applications, such as
   U.S. firms compete more strongly in Japan's word processing,
   Internet/web software, e- software and services than hardware mail
   translation software, and security and markets. In fact, the domestic
   software network software, in addition to pre-installed industry is
   very small, and most of its suite software packages. production is
   aimed at mainframes or based on proprietary standards. According to
   U.S. As in the United States, the dominant Department of Commerce
   market specialists operating system (OS) in Japan is Windows, in Tokyo,
   80 to 90 percent of imported which is predicted to continue to be the
   main software in Japan is of U.S. origin, and OS of all PCs and
   servers. International software remains a market segment in which Data
   Corporation (IDC) Japan reports that U.S. firms should continue to find
   numerous Windows NT currently commands slightly opportunities. more
   than 70 percent of Japan's server OS market, while various varieties of
   Unix THE INTERNET account for 20 percent. The use of Linux, Use of the
   Internet is booming in Japan, and although relatively small, is growing
   rapidly, the market offers U.S. IT firms numerous from 0.7 percent of
   the server OS market in opportunities. However, it is imperative that
   1998 to 4 percent in 1999, or by 470 percent. U.S. firms understand
   where Internet usage One factor expected to propel the use of takes
   place, the typical Japanese Internet Linux is growing interest in it by
   major user, the medium used to access the Internet, server vendors such
   as Fujitsu and NEC, as and reasons limiting the potential of well as
   among end-users. An April 2000 increased Internet use. survey of
   Japanese companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange found that 33.3
   Some industry experts suggest that Japan is a percent were interested
   in Linux. IDC Japan few years behind the United States in Internet
   predicts that the Linux market will grow 45 use. Japan's MPT recently
   reported that 27 percent annually to eventually control 12 million
   Japanese currently use the Internet-- percent of Japan's server OS
   market by more than one third of those via mobile 2004. phones-- for an
   Internet penetration rate of approximately 21 percent. The number of
   The IT services market is recovering as well. users is expected to rise
   steadily as PCs IDC Japan recently reported this market grew
   increasingly penetrate homes and businesses 3.2 percent from 1998 to
   1999, reaching and as Internet-enabled hand-held devices, $47.7
   billion, and expects it will increase 4 such as Internet-capable mobile
   phones, percent annually to $58.2 billion by 2004. continue to gain in
   popularity. By 2003, the Major growth areas are information systems
   number of Internet users in Japan is projected 3 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 to reach 76 million, or 60 percent of
   the survey released by Nielsen/NetRatings in country's population.
   February 2000 found that the typical Japanese Internet user spends
   around two and a half hours per week online. Each session Japan:
   Internet Users on the web lasts around 30 minutes, with the user
   spending an average of 37 seconds per page. The average number of pages
   viewed a week is about 266. The demographics of Japan's Internet users
   are changing. Although males make up 63 percent of Japan's Internet
   audience, a significant number of women are beginning to use the web.
   The Nikkei Weekly reported at the end of 1998 that 40 percent of new
   Internet users were women, some of whom are starting up their own
   businesses on the Internet. Some experts say that the number of women
   starting web-based businesses is rising significantly because women in
   Japan tend to stay at home, either by choice or because those seeking
   jobs have a relatively Source: Ministry of Posts and
   Telecommunications. difficult time finding work for which they feel
   qualified. This is partly due to cultural Most Internet use is at work,
   and commercial norms, but the trend had been exacerbated by use of the
   Internet is growing. MPT recently the recession, which further hampered
   job reported that 78 percent of Japanese opportunities for women. Many
   Japanese businesses use the Internet. A recent survey women see the
   Internet as a means to stay at by IBM Japan found that approximately 56
   home with their family, but also to use their percent of Japanese SMEs
   use the Internet, talents and join the workforce. compared to about 75
   percent of SMEs in the United States. Only about one half of those
   Various factors hinder quicker Internet Japanese SMEs actively conduct
   business adoption online, however. A survey in May 2000 by Although the
   number of Internet users is Nikkei Market Access and Nikkei Computer
   rising, Japan's Internet use per capita trails showed that 42 percent
   of major Japanese behind that of the United States. This is due
   companies that made Internet-related in part to a relatively low home
   PC investments in FY 1999 plan to more than penetration rate, which,
   although growing, double such investments in FY 2000. may never reach
   comparable levels to the United States. It also is in part due to
   Japanese Internet users are mainly composed relatively expensive
   metered local phone of the younger generation, with 76 percent of calls
   (typically 10 cents for every three users between the ages of 20 and
   30. A minutes), for which Internet users must pay in 4 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 addition to ISP fees,
   which in August 2000 Phone rates have not fallen appreciably averaged
   about ¥2000, or $18. In fact, the because of the nature of competition
   in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Japan's telecommunications
   market. NTT Development (OECD) reported in 1999 that manages to keep
   competition to a minimum Japan's combined telecom and ISP fees through
   expensive interconnection fees, averaged about $81 a month, more than
   twice which are the fees that new-to-market firms as high as in the
   United States ($37).4 (whether local or long distance) must pay NTT to
   pass calls to NTT's local Local phone charges are set mainly by
   subscribers. The U.S. Government recently Nippon Telegraph and
   Telephone addressed the issue of high-priced Corporation (NTT), the
   dominant interconnection costs, contesting that the high
   telecommunications operator that controls fees and monopolistic control
   on the market more than 90 percent of the local phone lines inhibits
   international competitors and the in Japan's infrastructure.5 Because
   of its potential of growing Internet and e-commerce monopoly power, NTT
   traditionally has had use in Japan. The U.S. Government believes little
   incentive to offer local telephone that lower interconnection rates
   will spur service at competitive prices. Until recently, more
   competitors to enter the market, which all NTT subscribers had no
   choice but to pay in turn will lead to lower local phone rates high
   per-minute phone charges. NTT and, hence, increased Internet usage. A
   recently introduced some flat-rate monthly compromise, reached between
   the Japanese plans for its Integrated Services Digital government and
   the United States in July Networks (ISDN) subscribers. However, the
   2000 concerning NTT's interconnection rates, service area to date is
   limited to urban areas, calls for a 20 percent decrease in the cost of
   although NTT says it will extend the service interconnection at the
   local level and a 50 areas in the future. Further, these plans are
   percent rate reduction at the regional level. still more expensive than
   what can be found Both reductions must be implemented by in the United
   States.6 There are still no flat 2001. This reduction in NTT access
   rates rate plans in Japan for analog phone service. clearly will help
   Japan's Internet market grow. 4 Highest mobile phone Internet usage in
   The OECD based its results on 40 hours of access during off-peak hours.
   the world 5 Although most Japanese currently access the NTT was
   restructured from one corporation into web through PCs, the population
   is logging four successor entities in 1999 by the Japanese on at more
   staggering numbers through government to further open the Japanese
   telecommunications market to competition. NTT is mobile phones, which
   are extremely popular mainly comprised of four companies-- NTT Holding
   in Japan. According to a recent MPT survey, Company, two regional local
   service providers (NTT 56.9 million Japanese owned a mobile East and
   NTT West), and a long phone7 in March 2000, or more than two out
   distance/international carrier (NTT Communications). 6As of August
   2000, the fee for flat-rate service 7Including portable cell phones,
   automobile cell was ¥4,500 ($41) , on top of a ¥2,830 ($26) phones, and
   personal handy-phone system (PHS) monthly charge for an ISDN line.
   handsets. 5 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 of
   five people. MPT further predicts that, by include a population that is
   eager to use the 2005, close to 80 million Japanese people, Internet
   but stymied by expensive or three fifths of the projected population,
   telecommunications fees, has a penchant for will subscribe to some form
   of mobile gadgets, is consumption-minded, and is eager service. Japan's
   dominant mobile phone to purchase the latest fad. carrier is NTT
   DoCoMo, which controls 55 percent of mobile phone subscribers and 60
   The leading provider of mobile Internet percent of the market by value.
   services is NTT DoCoMo, whose "i-mode" mobile Internet access service
   is currently Japan: Mobile Phone Users the most successful wireless
   Internet service in the world.8 I-mode lets users browse thousands of
   i-mode compatible Internet sites and conduct some transactions.
   However, because of the i-mode screen's small size (3 by 4 centimeters
   at best, the size of a business card), the information services most
   used on i-mode phones are short messaging a closed service among
   subscribers of the same service and e-mail. In addition, data transfer
   speeds on i-mode and other cellular phones are slow, averaging 9.6
   kbps.9 Source: Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. Japan has
   leveraged its high mobile phone penetration rate and expertise in
   miniaturization to create a new industry and market based on
   Internet-compatible mobile phones, known as keitai. In fact, Japan is
   the first country to have full time, always-on Internet access via
   mobile phones, and the mobile phone has become a key form of Internet
   access there. Approximately ten million people, or more than one third
   of 8Other cellular operators providing mobile Internet Japan's 27
   million Internet users (and 8 service in Japan are IDO, Tu-Ka, and
   Cellular Phone, percent of the total population), currently which all
   provide a service known as access the web via mobile phones, giving
   EZWeb/EZAccess, and J-Phone, which offers J-Sky. Japan the most
   wireless data users in the 9Current maximum transmission speeds are 64
   world. Reasons for the keitais' popularity kbps, although the average
   is much lower. DoCoMo expects to launch 384 kbps service in early 2001.
   6 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000
   packet-switched networks, as opposed to Japan: I-Mode Subscriptions
   circuit-switched networks for regular phone calls, subscribers pay for
   the amount of data sent or received, not by the minute. This makes the
   service relatively cheap compared to Internet over regular phone lines,
   which are billed by the minute. In fact, sending or receiving i-mail is
   much cheaper than making an ordinary phone call. Another reason
   Internet usage via mobile phones is popular is that mobile phone users
   can make purchases on the web and receive the invoices along with their
   monthly phone bill, which is extremely convenient and sidesteps the
   users' fears of paying for something online (discussed in the
   e-commerce section below). Broadband Internet technologies * Projected.
   As demand for high-speed Internet access Source: NTT DoCoMo. grows, and
   competition in telecommunications increases, several Despite these
   constraints, i-mode service, broadband technologies are being deployed
   launched in February 1999, has grown in Japan. NTT East, NTT West, and
   other explosively. Subscribership reached 10 telecommunications service
   providers have million in August 2000 and is expected to started to
   deploy Asynchronous Digital reach 17 million by the end of 2000; 40,000
   Subscriber Line (ADSL) technologies. ISDN to 50,000 new subscribers
   reportedly sign up use also has been growing sharply. In each day.
   Since June 2000, i-mode has addition, a growing number of Japanese are
   become a standard feature on DoCoMo's accessing the Internet via cable
   TV networks. main line of new cell phones.10 In fact, In April 2000,
   MPT reported that 105 cable DoCoMo's i-mode service is the most TV
   operators in Japan provide Internet popular ISP in Japan (other major
   ISPs are service. Investments are expected to Nifty, BigGlobe and
   So-net). I-mode phones increase in cable TV Internet access are being
   used not only by consumers, but by services, as well as digital
   satellite. businesses to allow employees outside the firm access to
   in-house servers. E-COMMERCE One reason this service has been popular
   is Total e-commerce revenues in Japan reached its low cost. Because the
   phones operate on approximately $4.2 billion in 1999, are expected to
   more than double in 2000 to $7.4 billion, and reach $693 billion by
   2003, 10There is speculation that DoCoMo may ally with according to a
   recent report by the Ministry AOL, giving i-mode users access to AOL's
   content. 7 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 of
   International Trade and Industry (MITI) investing in these
   technologies. The and Andersen Consulting. Rapid growth is distribution
   industry currently is one of the due to a number of different factors
   including largest users of B2B technologies, and, along more Japanese
   language content on the with the auto parts, electronic information,
   Internet, increased security over the Internet, and construction
   industries, is predicted to increased availability of inexpensive high-
   have the most growth in the use of B2B e- quality PCs, and recent
   telecommunications commerce, according to Andersen Consulting
   liberalization. Nonetheless, Japan's e- and MITI. commerce market lags
   several years behind that of the United States. Japan: B2B E-Commerce
   Revenues Japan: E-Commerce Revenues Source: Ministry of International
   and Industry Trade and Andersen Consulting. Source: Ministry of
   International and Industry Trade and Andersen Consulting.
   Business-to-consumer e-commerce E-commerce's total share of household
   Business-to-business e-commerce consumption rose from 0.1 percent in
   1998 to Most e-commerce growth will be in B2B e- 2 percent in 1999.
   Andersen Consulting and commerce revenues, which grew 420 percent MITI
   reported that B2C e-commerce reached from $610 million in 1998 to $3.2
   billion in revenues of a little under $1 billion in 1999, 1999, and are
   predicted to expand to $651 and predict revenues to increase steadily
   to billion by 2003. The penetration rate of B2B $42 billion by 2003.
   B2C e-commerce is purchases as a percentage of all business growing as
   the number of households with transactions in 1998 was approximately 8
   PCs increases, Internet usage becomes more percent, and could reach
   around 40 percent of a daily routine, and more companies create by
   2003. Firms in all industries reportedly a web presence to sell
   products. Despite this are realizing B2B's potential to increase
   growth, Andersen Consulting and MITI efficiency and cut costs, and are
   interested in predict the proportion of B2C spending to 8 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 fall, from 24 percent of
   overall e-commerce Japan's B2C e-commerce use low. revenues in 1999, to
   4 percent in 2003, as According to MPT, consumer concerns about B2B
   e-commerce explodes. online purchasing include protection of personal
   data, difficulty in returning a Japan: B2C E-Commerce Revenues purchase
   or canceling an order, merchandise not appearing the way it was
   advertised, and untrustworthy vendors. Another reason is that the
   concept of credit is relatively new in Japan. Most Japanese prefer to
   conduct transactions in cash, as opposed to using checks (which are
   practically nonexistent) or credit cards. One way some Japan-focused
   B2C sites have addressed these issues is by working with convenience
   stores, or konbini, as a medium. Shoppers make their purchases online,
   the web site merchant ships the products to the local convenience
   store, and the consumer picks up their items, paying in cash. Some
   convenience stores even have created their Source: Ministry of
   International and Industry Trade and Andersen own e-commerce sites. For
   example, Consulting. Japan's largest convenience store, Seven- Most B2C
   e-commerce revenues currently Eleven, launched its online commerce
   site, come from real estate, travel, autos, clothing, 7dream.com, at
   the beginning of July. Many and computers. Although Japanese
   Seven-Eleven locations plan to install consumers are spending less due
   to the computers in their stores so that people recession, they are
   often going to U.S. sites to without computers at home can make online
   save money on the cost of imported goods. purchases." Some market
   specialists note that B2C financial transactions have great potential
   in B2C sites also have tried to facilitate web- Japan, as more
   housewives, who based payments by introducing the Smartcard
   traditionally control family finances, are or IC card as a payment
   option on certain logging on to the Internet. At present, web sites.
   The Smartcard is a small card virtually all major Japanese banks offer
   similar to a credit card that stores Internet banking services.
   information and "money" on a computer integrated chip. To encourage
   e-commerce Hindrances to greater B2C e-commerce spending, many
   Smartcards have incentives, Japanese consumers' apprehension vis-a-vis
   such as built-in discounts or the ability to online purchasing, which
   in part stems from earn more purchasing power by spending a witnessing
   security problems occurring in the certain amount of money online. The
   use of United States, is a main issue keeping C.O.D., which is quite
   widespread in Japan, 9 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   August 2000 is also popular for concluding online suppliers. This trend
   has been opening up transactions. As mentioned earlier, many some
   opportunities for foreign suppliers. consumers prefer to make
   e-commerce However, opportunities may come slowly, purchases via their
   mobile phones, because depending on the industry. Some industry they
   can receive invoices with their phone analysts predict that Japanese
   firms in the bills. auto industry, for example, may continue to procure
   from traditional suppliers, albeit The government is trying to
   encourage e- online. commerce The Japanese government is trying to
   Internet start-ups are emerging accelerate the development of
   e-commerce in The Japanese workplace is changing in other Japan. It is
   working to develop guidelines on ways as well. Japanese society,
   dominated electronic signatures and certification and by large,
   conservative companies, has long studying the protection of personal
   stifled entrepreneurship, which the Internet information. It recently
   passed a law, to go now is spurring on within Japanese society. into
   effect on April 1, 2001, which approves Entrepreneurship had been
   virtually non- the use of digital signatures. The government existent
   in a country where group recently outlined projects to help upgrade the
   cohesiveness is the norm and many workers country's network
   infrastructure and promote have sought to work for large firms at which
   Internet-related research and development they could expect lifetime
   employment. The (R&D). It has announced plans to connect all Internet
   is breeding a generation of young schools to the Internet via fiber
   optic cable, entrepreneurs willing to take risks and with DSL and
   satellite by the end of FY 2001. few ties to traditional Japanese
   careers. The government also is getting itself online, putting into
   electronic format many of its In particular, the Internet is giving
   tech-savvy applications and registration procedures. Japanese a chance
   to build their own firms, and many are doing so. Encouraged by the The
   Internet brings change to Japanese rapid growth of e-commerce in the
   United business practices States, small Internet start-ups are emerging
   The Internet is changing the customary way throughout Japan to meet the
   growing demand many large companies do business in Japan. for
   e-commerce goods and services.11 To Traditionally, larger firms'
   elaborate ties, encourage this Internet start-up industry, known as
   keiretsu, with suppliers, had been Japan's Softbank is partnering with
   U.S.- exclusive and long-standing. This often based NASDAQ to create a
   NASDAQ Japan resulted in higher prices for finished electronic stock
   exchange to sell shares in products, because suppliers were not forced
   Japanese start-ups. This exchange is to compete among themselves for
   contracts; expected to start trading at the end of 2000. their business
   was virtually guaranteed. Many Japanese firms realize they must cut
   MARKET ENTRY TIPS costs to remain competitive, and they are There are
   no overt barriers to entering the bring forced to look beyond their
   keiretsu relationships. Many large firms now use the Internet to find
   alternative and cheaper 11A neighborhood of Tokyo known as Shibuya (or
   `Bit Valley') has become a mecca for these start-ups. 10 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 Japanese IT market.
   However, some things comfortable as well. Establishing a presence are
   important to keep in mind. Localization in Japan also is important to
   make known that is key for foreign IT companies of any type to one's
   firm is available to address any successfully penetrate the Japanese
   market. potential problems. Even if a U.S. firm The Japanese language
   has proved a barrier cannot have a local presence, it must work to
   foreign companies because of its closely with its partners to promote
   sales and complexity, not only in nuance-- Japanese provide a high
   level of user support. tends to be extremely polite in comparison to
   other languages but also in writing style. One option for local
   representation is to set Also, in a technical sense, Japanese is up a
   local sales office. However, for smaller difficult and expensive to
   translate software firms just entering the market, there are lower
   programs into due to the usage of kanji, cost options with which to
   begin. A firm which requires "double-byte" programming. might choose to
   partner with more established, larger U.S. IT firms, systems Some form
   of local representation is integrators, or consultants already doing
   essential. Business in Japan is very business in Japan.
   relationship-oriented and "face-to-face" personal interactions are much
   more Partnering with a Japanese firm, whether important in Japan than
   in the United States. large or an Internet start-up, is another A local
   partner will give a U.S. firm a local potentially successful market
   entry strategy. "face" and will use personal ties to locate However,
   this strategy can be challenging, and approach new customers more and
   can require a willingness to spend a effectively. Local representation
   will give substantial amount of time and money to find small U.S. firms
   more credibility, help U.S. a Japanese partner and build a working SMEs
   overcome a lack of brand recognition, relationship. and make potential
   customers more For more information on Japan's IT market contact: Tim
   Miles Director, Information Systems Division Office of Information
   Technologies U.S. Department of Commerce Tel: 202-482-2990 Fax:
   202-482-0952 timothy_miles@ita.doc.gov For more information on Japan's
   telecom market contact: Linda Astor Director, Wireless Technologies
   Division Office of Telecommunications Technologies U.S. Department of
   Commerce Tel: 202-482-4523 11 Office of Information Technologies,
   USDOC, August 2000 Fax: 202-482-5834 linda_astor@ita.doc.gov For more
   detailed information and assistance regarding the Japanese market and
   market entry strategies, contact the U.S. Department of Commerce's
   office in Tokyo: U.S. Commercial Service IT Unit Head Commercial
   Service Officer World Import Mart 7F, 3-1-3 Higashi Ikebukuro,
   Toshima-ku, Toyko 170-8630 Japan Tel: 011-81-3-3224-5070 Fax:
   011-81-3-3589-4235 http://www.csjapan.doc.gov/ 12 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, August 2000 REFERENCES "56% of Japan's Small,
   Midsize Firms Now Online," asia.internet.com/cyberatlas, May 8, 2000.
   Aukerman, William, "Nielsen/NetRatings Releases First Japan Net Usage
   Survey," asia.internet.com, Feb. 15, 2000. Barry, Doug. " E-commerce in
   Japan," Export America, June, 2000. Computer Market to Grow 7 Pct.
   Annually Through FY2003," www.nikeibp.asiabiztech.com, June 26, 2000.
   Dawson, Chester. "Web Rebels," Far Eastern Economic Review, July 29,
   1999. Dedrick, Jason and Kraemer, Kenneth. "Asia E-Commerce Report
   2000," April 2000. DoCoMo says 'i-mode' growth beating expectations,"
   Reuters, July 27, 2000. "Forrester Findings-- Internet Commerce,"
   www.forrester.com/ "IT in the 21st Century: The Expanding Internet and
   Mobile Telecommunications Frontiers," Ministry of Post and
   Telecommunications White Paper (2000). "Japan's IT Market Grew 3.2 Pct.
   to US$47.7 B in1999: IDC Japan," www.nikeibp.asiabiztech.com, June 27,
   2000. "Land of the Rising eCommerce," eMarketer, www.emarketer.com,
   January, 25, 2000, Morimoto, Yasue. "Electronic Commerce Software,"
   Industry Sector Analysis (ISA), U.S. Department of Commerce, August,
   1999, www.csjapan.doc.gov. "Net Year 1999: A Time of Change, Challenge,
   and Choice the Computing Japan Year-End Wrap-Up," Computing Japan,
   www.cjmag.co.jp., December 1999. Stevenson, Reed. " Japan's Internet
   Booma Wireless Wonder," Reuters, June, 20, 2000. 13
