http://nisn.nasa.gov/glossary.html

   [xgif.gif]
   [arrow.jpg] [nisn.sm.jpg] [xgif.gif]
                                        NASA Integrated Services Network
                                       NASA's Telecommunications Provider


   [xgif.gif]
   [nisn.redbox.jpg]
                     Overview
                     Services Information
                     Document Repository
                     Glossary
                     To Order Service
                     Conference Requests
   The NISN Glossary^ 1


   advisory message Any message generated by the operating system that
   informs the operator about a system error, an unprivileged entry, or
   the status of an event.
   ATM switched Asynchronous transfer mode switched service - high speed
   packet (cell) switching using fixed cell size for all media (voice,
   video, and data).
   authenticate To establish the validity of a claimed identity.

   Authority An entity recognized by some set of secure systems as a
   trusted source of security information.
   availability A measure of equipment, system, or network performance,
   usually expressed in percent; the ratio of operating time to the sum of
   operating time plus down- time.
   AWG The Acquisition Working Group is a working group established by the
   Interagency Management Council to recommend acquisition policy and
   strategy in the Post-FTS2000 environment.
   bandwidth A quantified description of the information-carrying capacity
   of a communications path or link. It can apply to telephone or network
   wiring as well as system buses, radio frequency signals, and monitors.
   Bandwidth is measured in (1) cycles per second, or hertz (Hz), which is
   the difference between the lowest and highest frequencies transmitted
   or (2) in terms of data bits or data bytes per second.
   basic E-mail Electronic mail service aimed at providing the most basic
   end-to-end capabilities commercially available.
   briefing message A message containing operational information and
   prepared in the format(s) prescribed in document number
   532-SIP-NCC/STDN. This document may be found on-line in a Portable Data
   File format (PDF) by doing a document number search at the following
   URL: http://tip.gsfc.nasa. gov/webpgs/query-topic.htm.
   bulletin board Electronic storage and retrieval systems serving as a
   bulletin board from which government and the public can post and
   disseminate questions, responses, and general information.
   C2 Class C2, Controlled Access Protection, is described in DoD
   5200.28-STD, Department of Defense Trusted Computer System Evaluation
   Criteria. Systems in this class make users individually accountable for
   their actions through login procedures, auditing of security-relevant
   events, and resource isolation. More information may be obtained
   on-line by visiting the web site at URL
   http://140.229.1.16:9000/htdocs/teinfo/directives/ soft/
   ds5200.281.html and scrolling down to paragraph 2.2.
   certificate Security data sealed by an Authority. The certificate
   contains the security data and the seal.
   chargeback The cost of providing NISN services to a customer is billed
   to and debited from the customer's budget.
   circuit-switched A voice or data oriented switched service arrangement
   that initiates a switched connection on a message or voice call basis.
   closed network There is neither access to nor from The Internet.
   Communications are limited to a defined set of authorized addresses.
   customer Customers are those organizational entities which validates a
   network requirement and either directly funds or arranges funding for
   the requirement. Examples of customers are officials in NASA
   Enterprises, Program Offices, the Associate Administrator for
   Headquarters Operations, and the Directors of NASA Centers and Field
   Installations.
   customer located network equipment To provide NISN services to a user,
   the service provider often must install equipment on the premises of
   the user. Though this equipment belongs to the service provider, the
   user may be authorized to perform limited "operator maintenance"
   functions to facilitate service restoral.
   dedicated services Services in which communications resources are
   permanently assigned to one user.
   electronic commerce A combination of electronic data interchange and
   electronic funds transfer services aimed at enhancing commerce and
   business exchanges between organizations.
   enhanced E-mail Electronic mail service which has functionality beyond
   that provided under a basic E-mail offering (e.g., supports electronic
   commerce requirements, signature authentication, direct facsimile
   transfer, groupware support, security features).
   filtering The process of discarding packets that do not meet the
   network's criteria for forwarding.
   firewall A firewall is either the program or the computer it runs on,
   usually an Internet gateway server, that protects the resources of one
   network from users from other networks. Typically, an enterprise with
   an intranet that allows its workers access to the wider Internet will
   want a firewall to prevent outsiders from accessing its own private
   data resources. There are a number of firewall screening methods. A
   simple one is to screen requests to make sure they come from acceptable
   (previously identified) domain names and IP addresses. Another is to
   not allow Telnet access into your network (although you may permit your
   own users to request Telnet connections outside your network).
   frame relay A packet service arrangement in which digital information
   is switched directly across networks with minimal error control or
   intermediate switching (as in packet switched arrangements) to minimize
   delay.
   full cost accounting The process of collecting cost information from
   each element of a provided service and producing a total cost over a
   period of time for providing that service. Cost elements include civil
   service labor, facilities, utilities, engineering, installation,
   operation and maintenance, circuit lease, equipment, etc.
   IMC The Interagency Management Council consists of senior government
   information resources management officials from agencies using FTS2000,
   and provides oversight to General Services Administration in
   administering telecommunications contracts.
   interface control document A document prepared between two or more
   parties which defines the interfaces between the users of the services
   and between the user of the service and the service itself. These
   documents delineate responsibility for each interface and include
   physical and electronic attributes of each interface as well as the
   protocols to be used.
   ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network services operating in the
   narrowband data transmission range (e.g., 64 kilobits per second
   information channels).
   LAN interconnection A service in which local area networks can be
   directly interconnected over long haul communications services at their
   primary data rates (e.g., the interconnection of Ethernet local area
   networks at 10 megabits per second).
   latency The time it takes for a data packet to move across a network
   connection.
   Mission Services Manager The SOMO liaison person who coordinates the
   mission operations functions for a program or center and provides the
   mission operations communications requirements to the NISN Center
   Representative
   multimedia oriented Services that provide full motion video, data, and
   switched voice concurrent operation among users.
   NII The National Information Infrastructure is envisioned to be an
   advanced, digital network that will allow individuals, businesses,
   government service providers, academia, and others to send, receive,
   and share information, whether audio, data, video, text, imagery, or
   multimedia, at reasonable cost. It is anticipated that the National
   Information Infrastructure will largely be financed, built, and
   operated by the private sector.
   NISN Center/Program Representative The laison person who coordinates
   customer functions for a program or center with the NISN project.
   number services An assignment of specific services to a dialed number
   (e.g., 700-, 800-, 900-) used to support bill consolidation, emergency
   operations contact, or special information access arrangements by the
   general public.
   open network Access to and from The Internet is permitted.
   PCS applications Personal Communications Service - The provision of
   reliable, ubiquitous communications to individuals who use portable,
   low-power terminals.
   restricted network Access to The Internet is permitted but access from
   The Internet is strictly controlled.
   scheduling message An operational message that requests specific assets
   of the Space Network ground segment be scheduled for a specific support
   at a particular date and time.
   security services The offering of special interface devices, equipment,
   or transmission facilities that supports secure telecommunications
   operations between users.
   SMDS Switched Multi-megabit Data Service is a broadband packet switched
   service offering.
   SONET Synchronous Optical Network Transmission service is the
   transmission of byte interleaved multiplexed data synchronously over a
   fiber optic media at data rates that are multiples of 51.84 megabits
   per second.
   special staff Employees with expert skills in a narrowly defined area,
   e.g., information technology security. Employees assigned to special
   staff functions are made available on an as-needed basis, performing
   duties in support of other organizations when not engaged by NISN.
   switched Services in which communications resources are shared among
   many users through the use of a switching device.
   Trojan A Trojan, also "Trojan Horse," is a program that does something
   undocumented that the programmer intended, but that some users would
   not approve of if they knew about it. Some consider that a virus is a
   particular case of a Trojan Horse, namely one which is able to spread
   to other programs (i.e., it turns them into Trojans too). Others
   consider that a virus which does not do any deliberate damage (other
   than merely replicating) is not a Trojan. Finally, many use the term
   "Trojan" to refer only to "non-replicating" malware, in which instance
   the set of Trojans and the set of viruses are disjoint.
   trusted A trusted computer system is one that employs sufficient
   hardware and software integrity measures to allow its use for
   processing simultaneously a range of sensitive (or classified)
   information.
   user The organizational element which is the direct recipient of a NISN
   provided service, i.e., has one or more physical interfaces used for
   terminating or originating a NISN telecommunications (see also
   "customer").
   value added Services that provide functions above and beyond those
   necessary for the transport of information.
   virus A computer virus is defined by Symantec as being a parasitic
   program written intentionally to enter a computer without the user's
   permission or knowledge. The word parasite is used because a virus
   attaches to files or boot sectors and replicates itself, thus
   continuing to spread. Though some viruses do little but replicate,
   others can cause serious damage or affect program and system
   performance. A virus should never be assumed harmless and left on a
   system.
   wireless voice/data A general term for radio communications such as
   cellular, satellite, microwave, and other services aimed at increasing
   the mobility and spatial coverage of telecommunications offerings
   beyond those reachable via wire-line arrangements.
   worm A computer WORM is a self-contained program (or set of programs),
   that is able to spread functional copies of itself or its segments to
   other computer systems (usually via network connections).

   ______________
   1- From the NISN Services Document, Rev 1, June 1997

   January 1998
