http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/wz/workzone.htm


                                  Work Zone
                              Home
                                  About Us
                                   Program
                              Overview
                                 M&S Product
                              Team
                               Implementation
                              Working Group
                               Senior Working
                              Group
                                SWAT Steering
                              Committee
                              Our Program Areas
                                  Research
                                 Technology
                              Sharing
                                  Education
                              Outreach
                              Our Publications
                                  Guidebook
                                 Fact Sheet
                                 Other Pages
                                    Links
                                   Sitemap



   OPLOGO.gif (4930 bytes)   Travel_b.gif (1481 bytes) Transp_2.gif (762
   bytes) Freight_b.gif (1495 bytes) ITS_b.gif (1068 bytes)
   b
              Work Zone

   Mobility & Safety Program
                                  frontani.gif (50091 bytes)
   "Making Work Zones Work Better"
   w

   Welcome to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)’s Web site for the
   Work Zone Mobility and Safety Program. The objective of our Program is
   to enhance the safety and operational efficiency of highway work zones
   for all road users (motorists, pedestrians, motorcyclists, bicyclists),
   and highway workers. The Program applies to all public highways and
   streets, and is intended to assist State and local governments in
   developing and conducting their own work zone improvement programs.
   w
   bb

                                 HIGHLIGHTS
   flsh3an.gif (9434 bytes) Best Practices Training Module  available for
   download! Check out this newly released training for our Work Zone Best
   Practices Guidebook.

   Two New Fact Sheets available online!  View Fact Sheets 5 and 6 in the
   series of short publications that showcase activities for improving
   mobility and safety through work zones.

   QuickZone!  Try It Out!   Version 0.99 available.
   b
   w

                   Brief History and Overview of Our Program

   Annually, nearly 800 fatalities and 37,000 serious injuries occur as a
   result of vehicle accidents in work zones.  Across the country,
   travelers are frustrated with the number of work zones and the delays
   that they cause.  Over the duration of the Transportation Equity Act
   for the 21st Century, funding levels for highway construction will
   increase nearly 40%, while congestion has been projected to increase by
   50% in the next 10 years.   Further, as the nation's highway
   infrastructure ages, more rehabilitation is needed.  Work zone mobility
   and safety have increasing importance as work zones become more of a
   daily fixture on our roads.

   Work Zone Study

   FHWA's Office of Program Quality Coordination conducted a quality
   improvement review entitled Meeting the Customer's Needs for Mobility
   and Safety During Construction and Maintenance Operations between
   December 1997 and June 1998.  The purpose of this quality improvement
   review was to assess the effectiveness of FHWA and State DOT policies
   and procedures in enhancing safety, improving mobility, and increasing
   the efficiency of the National Highway System(NHS) by reducing traffic
   congestion/delays during construction and maintenance operations. The
   results of this study include a description of the state of practice in
   work zones, identification of items that should be pursued to achieve
   state of the art in reducing motorist delays and enhancing safety in
   work zones, and a listing of best practices for improving  work zone
   mobility and safety.  This report has served as a guiding document to
   FHWA's Work Zone Mobility and Safety Product Team.

   Our Team

   Concurrent with the publication of this report, FHWA established a
   Work Zone Mobility and Safety Product Team. The Mobility and Safety
   Product Team is composed primarily of FHWA Headquarters and Research
   and Development staff.  This Team is tasked with ensuring the timely
   delivery of work zone-related products and tools for widespread use
   across the highway community.  To enhance our perspective and product
   effectiveness, we have looked to the highway community for input.  An
   Implementation Plan Working Group  was formed to assist the Product
   Team in early program planning, and in developing an implementation
   plan for the recommendations from the Meeting the Customer’s Needs
   study. This plan describes our mission.

   To ensure program alignment with stakeholders, we have established a
   Work Zone Senior Working Group. The Senior Working Group provides input
   from a diverse cross-section of highway community stakeholders.  We
   have also established a Strategic Work zone Analysis Tools (SWAT)
   Steering Committee to provide technical feedback in our development of
   tools to support work zone decision making.

   Our Product Areas

   In carrying out our mission, we have divided our efforts and products
   into 3 areas: Research, Technology Sharing, and Education/Outreach.

   Our Web Site

   Our Web site is organized based on our Team and Product areas. Click on
   the boxes below for more details and links to our products. To view a
   description of our overall program, click on the Program Plan box.

                           wpe6.jpg (23764 bytes)

            b
            dot.gif (595 bytes) U.S. Department of Transportation
            Federal Highway Administration
            FHWA Home | Operations CBU Home
            Privacy & Disclaimer Statement
            Questions or comments regarding this web site?
            Updated 11 October, 2000
