http://www.nonprofit.gov/intro.html

                             NonProfit Gateway

    Government Directory Key Information Sites Nonprofit Resources Search

                        NonProfit Gateway (Introduction)

   Welcome
   Thank you for visiting the NonProfit Gateway. It is designed as a
       central starting point to help nonprofit organizations access
       online Federal information and services. Linked to all Cabinet
       Departments and many agencies, it contains information about
       grants, regulations, taxes, and other services as well as
       information on a wide range of other topics and programs.

   Our users
   Our potential users are any of the 1.2 million nonprofit organizations
       as defined by the IRS Tax Code, or any members or clients of these
       groups. Most Americans have been involved with nonprofits in many
       ways -- either as members, volunteers, contributors, or as
       recipients of their services.

   The NonProfit Gateway Task Force
   The White House Office of Public Liaison has assigned one person in
       each Cabinet Department and in many independent agencies to serve
       as an official Federal "Nonprofit Liaison." These Nonprofit
       Liaisons, or their designated representatives, participate as
       members of the Task Force that created this site.

   Future Improvements
   The site is still under construction. Next steps call for additional
       information within the categories already provided and, based on
       user feedback, continuing to adapt the design and content of the
       site to reflect the needs and priorities of nonprofit
       organizations. So, please send us your comments and suggestions for
       changes. (Comments buttons are located throughout the site.)

   We encourage you to comment on how this page could be made more easy to
                        use for non-graphic browsers.

                              Home Page

                                       Comment

   Revised 1/7/97
