http://autoauctions.gsa.gov/salesTermsConditions.cfm




                GSA Logo Skip Navigation    Section 508 Tools
                         Federal Supply Service
                 | Search FSS ____________________ go button
                GSA Flag Banner Image
                FSS Application Server



                            [FleetLogonomark.jpg]


   Terms & Conditions of Sale

   GSA FLEET VEHICLE sales are to be held in accordance with the
   provisions of Standard Form 114c (general sale terms and conditions),
   revised June, 1997 edition and the following special terms and
   conditions:



   Eligibility of Bidders Revocation Of Award
   Social Security Number or Tax Identification Number Default
   High Bidders Title
   Payment Oral Statements and Modifications
   Requirements To Comply With Applicable Laws and Regulations Disputes
   Withdrawal of Property Exchange Sale
   Description Warranty Salvage Vehicles


      [(Please note that each selling entity has the right to introduce
   special terms and conditions that may vary from those stated herein. It
       is the bidder's responsibility to review the special terms and
             conditions that are made available at each sale.)]


   ELIGIBILITY OF BIDDERS:

   High Bidders must be at least 18 years of age. GSA Employees (including
   members of their immediate families) are prohibited from purchasing,
   either directly or indirectly, any government property being sold as
   surplus. Employees of other government agencies may purchase government
   personal property unless prohibited by their agency regulations. For
   breach of this warranty, the Government shall have the right to annul
   this contract without liability. This sale is open to the public.
   Bidders must attend the sale in order to bid.


    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:

    In accordance with Public Law No.104-134, Section 31001, the Debt
    Collection Improvement Act of 1996: a Social Security Number (SSN) or
    company Tax Identification Number (TIN) must be provided by anyone
    conducting business with the Federal Government, from which a debt to
    the Government may arise. Bids will not be considered for award from
    any one not providing this information. Individuals purchasing a
    vehicle for another person or company must furnish the information
    stated above and have a letter showing Power of Attorney from that
    person or company authorizing the buyer to purchase Federal Surplus
    Property on their behalf. Power of attorney is not required if the
    purchaser is a licensed dealer and registered as such.


   HIGH BIDDERS

   may be required to acknowledge and sign bid cards immediately after
   declaring the sale of an item. If this is required and not
   accomplished, the item will be re-offered. THE GOVERNMENT HAS THE RIGHT
   TO REJECT ANY BID.


   PAYMENT:

   Payment is required as prescribed in the special terms and conditions
   available for each sale. Cash payments shall be in U.S. currency. Other
   acceptable forms of payment may include MasterCard, VISA, American
   Express, Discover, Bravo or Private Choice credit card, cashier's
   check, credit union cashier's check issued by a Federal or State
   chartered credit union, traveler's check, postal or commercial money
   order, and properly endorsed Federal, State, or local government
   checks. A personal or company check will only be accepted when
   accompanied by a bank letter guaranteeing payment. This letter must
   state that the bank will guarantee the check for a specific amount for
   a period of 30 days after the sale date, and that it covers the
   purchase of U.S. Government property only. Checks and forms of payment
   other than cash must be made payable to the auction facility.
   Acceptance of credit cards is subject to verification and approval by
   the issuing bank. CREDIT CARDS MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED AT AN AUCTION.


   REQUIREMENTS TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS:

   It is the Bidder's responsibility to ascertain and comply with all
   applicable Federal, State, local, and multi-jurisdictional laws,
   ordinances, and regulations pertaining to the registration, licensing,
   handling, possession, transportation, transfer, export, processing,
   manufacture, sale, use or disposal of the property listed in the
   invitation. Purchasers or users of this property are not excused from
   any of such laws or regulations.


   REVOCATION OF AWARD:

   The bidder (offeror) warrants that he is not delinquent in the payment
   of any debt due the United States Government resulting from prior
   purchase of surplus personal property. In the event the Government
   determines after award that the bidder has breached warranty, the
   Government shall have the right to annul the contract without
   liability.


   DEFAULT:

   You are cautioned to bid only on those items you are prepared to pay
   for and remove in accordance with the terms and conditions of the sale.
   All Items awarded to you as the high bidder are contractually yours and
   must be paid for and removed within the time period specified under the
   special terms and conditions for each sale. Failure to do so could
   result in termination of the contract and the bidder may also be
   subject to paying liquidated damages.

   Clause Number 9 of the SF 114C has been modified to increase the
   minimum amount for liquidated damages to $200 as stated below:

   "The purchaser agrees that in the event he fails to pay for the
   property or remove the same within the prescribed period of time, the
   government at its election and upon notice of default shall be entitled
   to retain (or collect) as liquidated damages a sum equal to the greater
   of (a) 20% of the total purchase price of the item(s) as to which the
   default has occurred or (b) $200.00 or the purchase price of such
   item(s) if the purchase price is less than $200.00."


   TITLE:

   A Standard Form 97 (The United States Government Certificate of Release
   of a Motor Vehicle) and a Purchaser's Receipt will be issued to the
   buyer of each motor vehicle sold. A Purchaser's Receipt only will be
   issued for property other than vehicles. SF-97 is not a motor vehicle
   registration. It is evidence of title only and is to be used by the
   purchaser to obtain a proper state motor vehicle registration.


    ORAL STATEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS:
    Any oral statement or representation by any representative of the
    Government, changing or supplementing the offering or contract or any
    condition thereof, is unauthorized and shall confer no right upon the
    bidder or purchaser.


   DISPUTES:

   Any contract resulting from this offering is subject to the Contract
   Disputes Act of 1978, Public Law 95-563. The current Disputes clause is
   hereby incorporated by reference. Copies of the clause are available
   upon request from the GSA Sales Office conducting this sale.


     WITHDRAWAL OF PROPERTY:

     The government reserves the right to make withdrawals for property
     offered for sale at any time prior to removal.


    EXCHANGE SALE:

    This property is being offered in accordance with the exchange/sale
    provisions of Section 201© of the Federal Property and Administrative
    Services Act of 1949 Stat. 384 as amended (40 U.S.C. 481c).


   DESCRIPTION WARRANTY:

   The Government warrants to the original purchaser that the property
   listed in the Invitation for Bids will conform to its description.
   Condition is not guaranteed. If a mis-description is determined before
   removal of the property, the Government will keep the property and
   refund any money paid. If a mis-description is determined after
   removal, the Government will refund any money paid if the purchaser
   takes the property at his or her expense to a location specified by the
   contracting officer. No refund will be made unless the purchaser
   submits a written notice to the contracting officer within 15 calendar
   days of the date of removal that the property is mis-described and
   maintains the property in the same condition as when removed. Bidders
   may be required to submit an independent estimate of repairs from a
   reputable repair facility as part of their written notice to the
   contracting officer. After property has been removed, no refund will be
   made for shortages of property sold by the LOT . This warranty is in
   place of all other guarantees and warranties, express or implied. The
   Government does not warrant the merchantability of the property or its
   fitness for any use or purpose. The amount or recovery under this
   provision is limited to the purchase price of the mis-described
   property. The purchaser is not entitled to any payment for loss of
   profit or any other money damages, special, direct, indirect, or
   consequential. Clause No. 2 of Standard Form 114c is deleted.


   SALVAGE VEHICLES:

   An SF-97, Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle, will not always be
   issued for vehicles sold as salvage or scrap. If an SF-97 is issued,
   the document will indicate that the vehicle is for salvage or scrap
   only. Subsequent SF-97's will not be issued regardless of repairs made.

                             Standard Form 114C:

   [ About FSS | Contact Us | Privacy/Security | Last Modified (05/09/01)
                                      ]
