http://sc.water.usgs.gov/publications/wrir99-4234abs.html

   U.S. Geological Survey

  Water Resources of South Carolina
  [grad_blue_line.gif]

   Characterization of Water Quality and Simulation of Temperature,
   Nutrients, Biochemical Oxygen Demand, and Dissolved Oxygen in the
   Wateree River,
   South Carolina, 1996–98


   By Toby D. Feaster and Paul A. Conrads

   Abstract

   In May 1996, the U.S. Geological Survey entered into a cooperative
   agreement with the Kershaw County Water and Sewer Authority to
   characterize and simulate the water quality in the Wateree River, South
   Carolina. Longitudinal profiling of dissolved-oxygen concentrations
   during the spring and summer of 1996 revealed dissolved-oxygen minimums
   occurring upstream from the point-source discharges. The mean
   dissolved-oxygen decrease upstream from the effluent discharges was 2.0
   milligrams per liter, and the decrease downstream from the effluent
   discharges was 0.2 milligram per liter. Several theories were
   investigated to obtain an improved understanding of the
   dissolved-oxygen dynamics in the upper Wateree River. Data suggest that
   the dissolved-oxygen concentration decrease is associated with elevated
   levels of oxygen-consuming nutrients and metals that are flowing into
   the Wateree River from Lake Wateree.


   Analysis of long-term streamflow and water-quality data collected at
   two U.S. Geological Survey gaging stations suggests that no strong
   correlation exists between streamflow and dissolved-oxygen
   concentrations in the Wateree River. However, a strong negative
   correlation does exist between dissolved-oxygen concentrations and
   water temperature. Analysis of data from six South Carolina Department
   of Health and Environmental Control monitoring stations for 1980–95
   revealed decreasing trends in ammonia nitrogen at all stations where
   data were available and decreasing trends in 5-day biochemical oxygen
   demand at three river stations.


   The influence of various hydrologic and point-source loading conditions
   on dissolved-oxygen concentrations in the Wateree River were determined
   by using results from water-quality simulations by the Branched
   Lagrangian Transport Model. The effects of five tributaries and four
   point-source discharges were included in the model. Data collected
   during two synoptic water-quality samplings on June 23–25 and August
   11–13, 1997, were used to calibrate and validate the Branched
   Lagrangian Transport Model. The data include dye-tracer concentrations
   collected at six locations, stream-reaeration data collected at four
   locations, and water-quality and water-temperature data collected at
   nine locations. Hydraulic data for the Branched Lagrangian Transport
   Model were simulated by using the U.S. Geological Survey BRANCH
   one-dimensional, unsteady-flow model. Data that were used to calibrate
   and validate the BRANCH model included time-series of water-level and
   streamflow data at three locations. The domain of the hydraulic model
   and the transport model was a 57.3- and 43.5-mile reach of the river,
   respectively.


   A sensitivity analysis of the simulated dissolved-oxygen concentrations
   to model coefficients and data inputs indicated that the simulated
   dissolved-oxygen concentrations were most sensitive to changes in the
   boundary concentration inputs of water temperature and dissolved oxygen
   followed by sensitivity to the change in streamflow. A 35-percent
   increase in streamflow resulted in a negative normalized sensitivity
   index, indicating a decrease in dissolved-oxygen concentrations. The
   simulated dissolved-oxygen concentrations showed no significant
   sensitivity to changes in model input rate kinetics.


   To demonstrate the utility of the Branched Lagrangian Transport Model
   of the Wateree River, the model was used to simulate several hydrologic
   and water-quality scenarios to evaluate the effects on simulated
   dissolved-oxygen concentrations. The first scenario compared the
   24-hour mean dissolved-oxygen concentrations for August 13, 1997, as
   simulated during the model validation, with simulations using two
   different streamflow patterns. The mean streamflow for August 13, 1997,
   was 2,000 cubic feet per second. Simulations were run using mean
   streamflows of 1,000 and 1,400 cubic feet per second while keeping the
   water-quality boundary conditions the same as were used during the
   validation simulations. When compared to the validation simulation
   using the mean streamflow for August 13, 1997, simulations indicated an
   increase in 24-hour mean dissolved-oxygen concentrations ranging from
   0.26 to 0.47 milligram per liter and 0.12 to 0.30 milligram per liter,
   respectively. A dissolved-oxygen budget was computed at branch 1 grid 9
   (river mile 57.4) for the three simulations. The budgets indicated that
   the increase in simulated dissolved-oxygen concentrations was a result
   of increased reaeration from the changing hydraulic conditions at the
   different flows.


   A second scenario simulation was used to evaluate two point-source
   loading conditions to the system by comparing simulated
   dissolved-oxygen concentrations with a condition where there is no
   point-source discharge into the system. The changes in the 24-hour
   minimum and mean dissolved-oxygen concentrations for August 13, 1997,
   using the August 1997 validation flow conditions ranged from -0.08 to
   0.05 milligram per liter. Setting all the point-source loadings to the
   current National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit ultimate
   oxygen demand levels changed the 24-hour minimum and mean
   dissolved-oxygen concentrations by a range of -0.26 to 0.01 milligram
   per liter.


   A third scenario was run using the three different streamflow
   conditions from scenario one and setting point-source loadings to the
   current National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit ultimate
   oxygen demand levels. The results indicated increases in the 24-hour
   mean dissolved-oxygen concentrations ranging from 0.03 to 0.59
   milligram per liter. Once again, the influence of the atmospheric
   reaeration as the flows were reduced resulted in increased 24-hour mean
   dissolved-oxygen concentrations.


       South Carolina District USGS South Carolina Recent Publications


    Maintainer: SC WebTeam
    Last modified: 05/07/01
    Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey
    Water Resources for South Carolina
    Privacy Statement and Disclaimer
