http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/releases/g01-110.htm

   News Releases from NIST

   ""

              President and Commerce Secretary Announce Recipients
         Of Nation's Highest Honor in Quality and Performance Excellence

      Education Category Wins for First Time in History of Baldrige Awards

      FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Dec. 4, 2001

   Contacts: Jim Dyke/Trevor Francis
   (202) 482-4883

   Jan Kosko
   (301) 975-2762

   G 2001-110

   President George W. Bush and Commerce Secretary Don Evans today
   announced five winners of the 2001 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality
   Award, the nation's premier award for performance excellence and
   quality achievement. For the first time in the history of the Baldrige
   awards, winners were named in the education category.

   The 2001 Baldrige Award recipients are:

   Clarke American Checks, Inc., San Antonio, Texas (manufacturing);
   Pal's Sudden Service, Kingsport, Tenn. (small business);
   Chugach School District, Anchorage, Alaska (education);
   Pearl River School District, Pearl River, N.Y. (education); and
   University of Wisconsin-Stout, Menomonie, Wis. (education).

   "President Bush and I congratulate the men and women who have won the
   2001 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award," said Commerce Secretary
   Evans. "Through their passion for excellence and their commitment to
   employees, customers, students, stakeholders and their communities,
   they have achieved extraordinary results. They represent the proud
   spirit of America and our strong resolve to excel."

   "We are especially pleased to announce the first Baldrige Award winners
   in the education category," continued Evans. "They will be outstanding
   role models for 21st Century education organizations. As President Bush
   has so often said, if we succeed in educating our youth, many other
   successes will follow."

   In addition to including the first-ever winners in the education
   category, this year's awards include the first winner in the quick
   service restaurant industry, Pal's Sudden Service. Chugach School
   District, with just 30 faculty and staff, is not only one of the first
   education winners, it also is the smallest organization to win a
   Baldrige Award. Three of the 2001 winners also have won state quality
   awards: Clarke American Checks, 2001 Texas Award for Performance
   Excellence; Pal's Sudden Service, 2001 Tennessee Quality Excellence
   Award; and Pearl River School District, 1994 New York Governor's
   Excelsior Award.

   These organizations are expected to receive the Baldrige Award in a
   ceremony in Washington, D.C., early next year.

   The Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award is given to U.S
   organizations that have exemplary achievements in seven areas:
   leadership, strategic planning, customer and market focus, information
   and analysis, human resource focus, process management, and business
   results.

   All applicants for the Baldrige Award undergo a rigorous examination
   process that ranges from 300 to 1,000 hours of outside review.
   Final-stage applicants are visited by teams of examiners to clarify
   questions and verify information. All applications are reviewed by an
   independent board of examiners primarily from the private sector. Each
   applicant receives a report citing strengths and opportunities for
   improvement.

   Named after the 26th secretary of Commerce, the Malcolm Baldrige
   National Quality Award was established by Congress in 1987 to enhance
   the competitiveness of US businesses. The award promotes quality
   awareness, recognizes the quality and performance achievements of US
   organizations, and publicizes successful performance strategies. It has
   five categories: manufacturing, service, small business, education and
   health care. The award is not given for specific products or services.
   Since 1988, 46 organizations have received the Baldrige Award.

   The Baldrige program is managed by the National Institute of Standards
   and Technology, an agency of the US Department of Commerce's Technology
   Administration, in conjunction with the private sector.

   Further information and photos are also available by calling (301)
   975-2762.

   Go back to News page Go back to NIST News Page

   See also: A-Z Subject Index, NIST Home Page

   Date created: Dec. 3, 2001
   Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
