http://www.oso.noaa.gov/related-links/index.htm

    This java script display the day, month, date, and the current year.
    OSO Banner
       HOME   NOAA   NESDIS


                           OSO Navigation Links
                             News/Announcement
                             Morning Report
                             Information & History
                             Operations Reports
                             GOES
                             POES
                             DMSP
                             Contacts
                             OSO Org Charts
                             OSO Related Links

                     Satellite Image of a storm forming.


   Related Links
   Weather.gov
   Nationwide forecast information and all satellite and radar imagery.
   National Weather Service
   "The National Weather Service ™ (NWS) provides weather, hydrologic, and
   climate forecasts and warnings for the United States, its territories,
   adjacent waters and ocean areas, for the protection of life and
   property and the enhancement of the national economy. NWS data and
   products form a national information database and infrastructure which
   can be used by other governmental agencies, the private sector, the
   public, and the global community. "
   NOAA CDA Station Wallops Va.
   The Wallops Command and Data Acquisition Station is responsible for
   ensuring scheduled data flow from NOAA satellites to designated user
   subsystems.
   Fairbanks Data Acquisition Station
   The NOAA Command and Data Acquisition Station is located at 65^oN
   latitude and 147.5^o W longitude making it ideal for polar orbiting
   satellite ground station support.
   National Environment Satellite, Data, and Information Services (NESDIS)
   The NOAA / NESDIS mission is to provide and ensure timely access to
   global environmental data from satellites and other sources to promote,
   protect, and enhance the Nation's economy, security, environment, and
   quality of life.
   Office of Systems Development (OSD)
   OSD performs overall program management functions of NOAA's operational
   environmental satellite systems and is responsible for establishing
   effective program objectives, requirements, and milestones to ensure a
   stable framework for conducting satellite and ground system
   acquisitions, and preparing for system operations.
   NOAASIS Satellite & Direct Readout Information
   The NOAA Satellite Information System (NOAASIS) web site is a central
   location for finding information about NOAA environmental satellites
   (GOES and POES). Information is provided by various contributors within
   the National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service
   (NESDIS) and the external satellite community. This site provides
   information of particular interest to users who operate their own
   direct readout receiving stations.
   Geostationary Satellite Server
   This site host real time images from GOES Satellite. You can view
   retrospective imagery, for the past 21 days here.

      Home  |   Operations  |  News  |  Daily Updates |  Info & History
              GOES |  POES  |  DMSP |  Contact Us  |  Internal
                                  Webmaster
                             Privacy Act Notice
