http://thompson.senate.gov/kids.html

   [cornertp.jpg]


   Link to Home Page
   Link to Issues Section
   About Senator Thompson
   Working for Tennessee
   National Accomplishments
   Constituent Services
   Press Office
   Office Locations
   Tennessee
   Government Links

   [address4.gif]


   Kids Section
   The internet is a great place to explore your government and learn more
   about the topics you and your family are interested in. Learn about the
   latest Space Shuttle mission, see how coins are minted, or even try
   being President for a day.

   Seperation Bar
   Link to Senator Thompson's Sliding Puzzle Senator Thompson's Sliding
   Puzzle
   Play Senator Thompson's Sliding Puzzle featuring a picture of Senator
   Thompson bringing his famous truck from Tennessee to the United States
   Capitol.
   Link to Schoolhouse Rock 'Schoolhouse Rock': I'm Just a Bill
   How laws are made on Capitol Hill: Lyrics from ABC-TV's 'Schoolhouse
   Rock' classic animated learning series.
   Link to FBI Kids FBI Kids
   Learn about forensics, DNA and polygraph testing, and fingerprints.
   Find out information on the FBI working dogs, learn Internet safety
   tips and more.
   Link to CIA Kids CIA Kids
   Learn about today's Central Intelligance Agency, the CIA Canine Corps
   or the Aerial Photography Pigeons. Become a trivia wiz or learn how to
   the CIA breaks secret codes.
   Link to PBS Kids Democracy Project PBS Kids Democracy Project
   From stepping into a voting booth to becoming President for a day, see
   how government is a part of your life at this great interactive site.
   Link to the White House for Kids The White House for Kids
   Learn about the history of the White House, the first pets, and the
   presidential family.
   Link to the Nasa Space Program NASA Space Program
   Kids section for aspiring astronauts and adventurers. Learn about
   living in space, the new International Space Station and see pictures
   of rockets and space shuttles.
   Link to FEMA for Kids Federal Emergency Management Agency for Kids:
   Learn about natural disasters and help your family be prepared. Read
   stories from children who have been through a disaster.
   Link to State Department's Gegraphy Learning Site State Department's
   Geography Learning Site
   Learn about Geography, maps, foreign affairs, world issues and more.
   Find out about interesting places from around the globe.
   Link to Smithsonian Institution's Kids' Castle Smithsonian
   Institution's Kids' Castle
   Science, air & space, animals, personalities, sports, arts, worldwide,
   and history.
   Link to EPA's Explorers Club Environmental Protection Agency's
   Explorers Club
   Ecology, Environment and science, including information for students
   and teachers.
   Link to U.S. Mint for Kids Clubhouse U.S. Mint for Kids: The Clubhouse
   Very interactive and fun site with many places to go; take a trip back
   into U.S. history, get ideas for coin collections, watch how coins are
   minted, and more.
   Link to Consumer Products Safety Commission Kids Page Consumer Products
   Safety Commission Kids Page:
   Safety tips around the home and neighborhood. Help make your community
   a safer place to live.
   Link to CDC's Safe USA CDC's Safe USA:
   Centers for Disease Control safety information and tips for home,
   school, the community, and the workplace.
   Link to Peace Corps for Kids Peace Corps for Kids:
   Learn all about the Peace Corps. Join the Peace Corps' pal, Traveler,
   as she explores the globe and learns about making a difference. Link to
   the home of adventure and service.
   Link to DOL: Safe Work/Safe Kids Department of Labor: Safe Work/Safe
   Kids
   Helping teens gain positive and safe work experience. Summer job safety
   and more.
   [afjrlogo.jpg] US Air Force - Air Force Link Jr.
   Learn about the history of the United States Air Force, what makes
   planes fly, communicate with outer space and more.

   Link to Coast Guard Kids Corner US Coast Guard - Kids Corner
   Learn about the United States Coast Guard, play some fun games and
   more.
   Link to Army: Cool Stuff US Army - Cool Stuff
   Learn about the Army, see our United States soldiers in action or play
   some fun and interesting games.
   Link to DOL: Safe Work/Safe Kids Naval Sea Cadet Corps
   Lean all about basic seamanship and seagoing skills and find out about
   your local Sea Cadet Corps Unit.
   Link to Fire Administration Kids Page U.S. Fire Administration
   Home page for youth and families: education, safety and prevention

                                 [tnbar.jpg]
                             More Helpful Links
                            The Executive Branch
                           The Legislative Branch
                             The Judicial Branch

                                     Top

   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
