http://www.fedsales.gov/fdisclaimer.htm

              Computer Security, Privacy and Other Disclaimers
                            _____________________

   [wic-inde.gif]
     * Unauthorized Use
     * Computer Security
     * External Links Disclaimer
     * Privacy and Security Notice
     * Email Policy
     * Disclaimer of Liability
     * Disclaimer of Endorsement
     * Disclaimer of Warranty
     * Moderation
     * General Disclaimer
     * Copyright Notice

   UNAUTHORIZED USE

   This is a FedSales federal government computer system. FedSales will
   make every effort to prevent unauthorized access to information
   provided confidentially via FedSales. Unauthorized attempts to gain
   access to or modify any information stored on this system, to defeat or
   circumvent security features, or to use this system for other than its
   intended purposes are illegal and may result in disciplinary action,
   criminal prosecution, or both. To protect the integrity of this system
   and the confidentiality of information stored on it, FedSales may
   monitor any activity on the system and retrieve any information stored
   on the system.

                                    Index

   COMPUTER SECURITY

   Use of Internet network resources, such as those provided by Fedsales,
   involves potential computer security risks:

   1. Documents and files may contain software viruses. Looking at a file
   in a text editor is generally safe, but downloading a program to a
   computer, and executing it, may introduce a virus to the PC.

   It is advisable to either refrain from executing programs obtained over
   the network, or use a virus detecting utility before running such a
   program.

   2. It is wise to follow generally accepted network security procedures,
   such as password protecting network resources (they may exist on your
   own PC), choosing strong network passwords, making tape backups of
   files on network computers, etc. Any computer connected to the Internet
   is subject to attack by hackers.

   3. Documents and files available through Fedsales may contain
   inaccuracies. Technology to authenticate documents exists, but is not
   readily available to most users. Unless you have such software
   technology, it is prudent to limit the trust you place in Internet
   accessed documents. Internet resources such as Gopher and the World
   Wide Web (WWW/Mosaic) create the appearance of a seamless information
   network. Actually, Internet accessed documents exist on different
   servers, managed by different organizations. Consequently, that
   Fedsales operations staff have little or no control of the majority of
   documents that can be accessed, via pointers, through Fedsales
   resources.

                                    Index

   EXTERNAL LINKS DISCLAIMER

   The appearance of external hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement
   by FedSales, its employees, contractors, sponsors or affiliates of such
   external web sites or the information, products or services contained
   therein. Neither the U.S. Government, FedSales nor any of its
   employees, sponsors, contractors or affiliates exercise any editorial
   control over the information at such external locations. External links
   on these pages are provided consistent with the stated mission(s) of
   FedSales which is not responsible for the contents of any linked
   "off-site" web pages referenced from its servers. Links may be
   accompanied by small images, icon, or "thumbnails" intended to
   illustrate the link but not advertise products or services.

                                    Index

   PRIVACY AND SECURITY NOTICE
    1. The FedSales Web site is provided as a public service by the U.S.
       Chief Financial Officers Council and the National Science
       Foundation.
    2. Information presented on the FedSales Web site is considered public
       information and may be distributed or copied. However, attribution
       to FedSales can not be made if materials are copied to non-Fedsales
       servers. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image credits is
       requested.
    3. FedSales periodically requests comments from its users via email,
       Web or other Internet service platforms, i.e. the "comments" button
       on the FedSales home page. Such information returned is used to
       gauge customer interests and to better tailor FedSales's services
       to those identified interests.
    4. Occasionally, the comments received may be posted on FedSales's Web
       or gopher libraries under "Comments Received" or may be included in
       reports to FedSales's sponsoring organizations as an indication of
       the support, approval or disapproval of vocal members of its
       audience. Comments made by users within FedSales lists, newsgroups
       or web sites will be assumed to be owned solely by the commentor to
       be in the commentor's own "voice" and shall not be attributed,
       directly or indirectly, to either the U.S. Government, FedSales nor
       any of its employees, sponsors, contractors or affiliates.
    5. You also may decide to send us personally-identifying information,
       for example, in an electronic mail message containing a complaint.
       We use personally-identifying information from consumers in various
       ways to further our consumer protection and competition activities.
       Also, e-mail is not necessarily secure against interception. If
       your communication is very sensitive, or includes personal
       information like your bank account, charge card, or social security
       number, you might want to send it by postal mail instead.
    6. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, this government computer system employs
       software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
       unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
       cause damage.
    7. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
       attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
       habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
       scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
       Archives and Records Administration guidelines.
    8. For site management, information is collected for statistical
       purposes. FedSales will disclose this information to third parties
       only in aggregate form. This government computer system uses
       software programs to create summary statistics, which are used for
       such purposes as assessing what information is of most and least
       interest, and identifying system performance or problem areas. We
       automatically collect and store only the following information
       about your visit:
         1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
            private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you
            connect from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP
            address is a number that is automatically assigned to your
            computer whenever you are surfing the Web) from which you
            access our website;
         2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our
            site;
         3. The date and time you access our site;
         4. The pages you visit; and
         5. If you linked to the FedSales website from another website,
            the address of that website. When you leave the FedSales
            website, the address of the website you first visit, if that
            site is linked from the FedSales website.
    9. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, this government computer system employs
       software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
       unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
       cause damage.
   10. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
       attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
       habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
       scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
       Archives and Records Administration General Schedule 20.
   11. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
       on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
       the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
       Information Infrastructure Protection Act.
   12. FedSales does not give, sell or transfer any personal information
       to a third party.
   13. FedSales reserves the right to delete private and public electronic
       messages from its mailing lists, newsgroups and forums after a
       period of time established by FedSales.
   14. If you have any questions or comments about the information
       presented here, please forward them to fnet-support@fedsales.gov.

                                    Index

   EMAIL POLICY

   You have the option of using e-mail to contact FedSales. This is not
   secure email! FedSales asks that you not send information by email that
   you would not want a third party to read. If you need to provide
   FedSales with personal information, such as your Social Security number
   or home address, please call, write or visit FedSales. Email messages
   may be intercepted, read, and possibly changed en route. Unsecured
   email messages can also be sent anonymously or falsely attributed to
   some third party.

   In reply, FedSales will send you only general information by email. If
   FedSales can identify you and have your telephone number or address in
   its records, FedSales will furnish any personal information by
   telephone or letter. This helps to ensure Fedsales does not send your
   personal information to someone asking for it without your knowledge.

   All email submitted to FedSales is considered available for publication
   on its web site and/or in its GovNews newsgroups, mailing lists or
   forums, unless the author explicitly specifies otherwise.

                                    Index

   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

   With respect to documents and information provided, neither the U.S.
   Government, FedSales nor any of its employees, sponsors, contractors or
   affiliates makes any warranty, express or implied, including the
   warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, and
   non-infringement, with respect to documents available directly or
   indirectly from this server. Additionally, the U.S. Government,
   FedSales and its employees, sponsors, contractors and affiliates assume
   no legal liability for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
   information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed herein or for
   special, indirect , consequential, or incidental damages, or damages
   for lost profits, loss of revenue, or loss of use, arising out of or
   related to its services or the information contained in it, whether
   such damages arise in contract, negligence, tort, under statute, in
   equity, at law or otherwise, and do not represent that use of such
   information, apparatus, product or process would not infringe on
   privately owned rights, whether such damages arise in contract,
   negligence, tort, under statute, in equity, at law or otherwise.

                                    Index

   DISCLAIMER OF ENDORSEMENT

   Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
   necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or
   favoring by the U.S. Government, FedSales or any of its employees,
   sponsors, contractors or affiliates.

                                    Index

   DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

   While the FedSales staff, volunteers and agency points of contact work
   hard to ensure the information provided to you is accurate and free of
   any violations of intellectual property rights, we cannot provide a
   100% guarantee. With the large numbers of people involved, directly or
   indirectly, in posting information on the FedSales web site, errors are
   bound to occur. For this reason, you use the information on this web
   site based on your own evaluation and risk analysis. FedSales maintains
   this server to enhance public access to its information and provides no
   warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability or
   completeness of furnished data. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that any
   or all of the information (including software, data bases and
   documents) is completely free of violations of intellectual property
   rights. Only Public information will be maintained on the FedSales web
   site or made accessible through links to other Web sites. We strongly
   recommend that FedSales data be acquired directly from a FedSales
   server and not through other sources that may change the data in some
   way. Without knowing how information may be used or why it may be
   needed, FedSales cannot make any express or implied warranties about
   the information contained on the FedSales web site and disclaim these
   warranties to the full extent provided by state and federal law,
   including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
   particular purpose. Additionally, to control costs, and in view of
   FedSales's inability to insure your activities regarding this web site,
   we must limit our own liability. All indirect, consequential, implied,
   punitive and special damages are deemed waived if you use the
   information on this web site in any manner. The sole remedy is the
   price paid or, at the seller's choice, replacement or repair of the
   defective information. Some of the documents on this server may contain
   live references (or pointers) to information created and maintained by
   other organizations. Please note that FedSales does not control and
   cannot guarantee the relevance, timeliness, or accuracy of these
   outside materials. While FedSales makes every effort to provide
   accurate and complete information, various data such as names,
   telephone numbers, etc. may change prior to updating. FedSales welcomes
   suggestions on how to improve its web site and correct errors. Please
   use your browser's "BACK" button to return to the previous page.

                                    Index

   MODERATION

   All FedSales lists and newsgroups are moderated. The purpose of
   moderation is to reduce nonproductive traffic and unclog subscriber
   mailboxes. As most "newbee's" are aware, mailboxes an get very quickly
   overloaded when subscribing to a number of mailing lists. Nothing kills
   mailing lists faster than useless, tasteless, off-subject messages, or
   duplicate messages cross-posted to multiple lists.

                                    Index

   GENERAL DISCLAIMER

   By accessing this computer system you are consenting to system
   monitoring for law enforcement and other purposes. Unauthorized use of,
   or access to, this computer system may subject you to criminal
   prosecution and penalties.

   The information, opinions, data, and statements contained herein are
   not necessarily those of the U.S. Government, FedSales, its sponsors,
   employees, contractors or affiliates and should not be interpreted,
   acted on or represented as such.

   The following Fedsales Home Page, Conferences, Newsgroups, Mailing
   Lists, Journals, Forums etc., are provided "as is", without expressed
   or implied warranty and may be discontinued at any time. There is no
   stated or implied representation about Fedsales's capabilities'
   suitability, accuracy or stability.

   Fedsales does not support or endorse any commercial offerings. However,
   references to commercial offerings may appear for informational
   purposes, or as a personal opinion of a contributor.

   Links from any FedSales web page to non-governmental entity, product,
   service or information sites do not constitute an endorsement or
   recommendation by the U.S. Government, FedSales or any of its
   employees, sponsors, contractors or affiliates .

   This capability is intended for all personnel interested in the
   Financial Activities of Federal, Local and State governments. The
   vision is that this capability will increase the competency and
   knowledge of users. The potential audience to include Chief Financial
   Officers, Accounting professionals, Suppliers and Vendors from many
   industries along with all finance professionals. This is a PUBLIC
   FACILITY and all information can be viewed by all.

                                    Index

   COPYRIGHT NOTICE

   Permission for use is granted for non-commercial, personal or
   educational purposes. Permission is granted to describe this document
   in product or on-line services, but not to produce in whole or in part
   without written permission. Reasonable precautions have been taken to
   ensure that any copyrighted information available via Fedsales is
   clearly marked. In general, most information is in the public domain,
   and can be used by anyone, for any purpose.

                                    Index
