http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/semantic_ir.93.pdf

   Semantic Processing in Information Retrieval Thomas C. Rindflesch and
   Alan R. Aronson National Library of Medicine Bethesda, MD 20894
   Intuition suggests that one way to enhance the infor- used in
   conjunction with structured queries. Hersh et mation retrieval process
   would be the use of phrases al. [3] suggest that adding some form of
   semantic pro- to characterize the contents of text. A number of cessing
   to phrasal-based information retrieval may researchers, however, have
   noted that phrases alone improve performance. In this paper, we explore
   an do not improve retrieval effectiveness. In this paper approach to
   semantic processing which adds to the we briefly review the use of
   phrases in information information available about a text by specifying
   the retrieval and then suggest extensions to this paradigm
   relationships that exist among the concepts repre- using semantic
   information. We claim that semantic sented by the phrases in the text.
   (Also see [17, 18]). processing, which can be viewed as expressing
   rela- As will be seen below, we base semantic processing tions between
   the concepts represented by phrases, on an underspecified syntactic
   analysis and extensive will in fact enhance retrieval effectiveness.
   The avail- variant generation, which together support the robust
   ability of the UMLS® domain model, which we exploit mapping of phrases
   to terms in the UMLS Meta- extensively, significantly contributes to
   the feasibility thesaurus®. of this processing. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
   INTRODUCTION Our system first assigns a syntactic analysis to input
   Information retrieval research is keenly interested in from either a
   query or document. At the heart of the improving retrieval
   effectiveness beyond that possible approach is a mapping of this
   structure to concepts in by using key words alone. One possibility is
   the use of the UMLS domain model [19]. The most important phrases; and
   an array of approaches to the treatment information which is then
   available for further analy- of phrases for information retrieval can
   be found in sis is a semantic type for each concept which is situ- the
   recent literature. These approaches vary most sig- ated in a network of
   such types. Further semantic nificantly with respect to the amount of
   linguistic processing constructs a predicate argument structure
   analysis brought to bear in extracting phrases from which determines
   how the concepts discovered in the free text, ranging from essentially
   none to a full syn- previous phase interact within a particular
   linguistic tactic parse. The barrier word method, for example, as
   structure. For example, in slightly simplified form, demonstrated by
   Tersmette et al. [1] considers a our syntactic component assigns the
   underspecified phrase to be any string occurring between a list of bar-
   structure (1b) to the input (1a). Thermogram and men- rier words. A
   more extensive analysis employs barrier ingitis map to the UMLS
   concepts shown in (1c), words in addition to some variant generation,
   but which is the semantic interpretation for this example attempts no
   (or very little) linguistic analysis [2,3,4, and provides both the UMLS
   concepts as well as the 5,6]. Systems which exploit linguistic
   structure in associated semantic types. The semantic interpreta-
   information retrieval may be based on a full syntactic tion specifies
   the relationship which obtains between analysis or some form of
   underspecified structure the concepts in the input phrase.
   [7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14]. (1) a. Use of thermogram in detection of
   meningitis. Unfortunately, the use of phrases in information b.
   noun_phrase( retrieval-regardless of the method used to generate
   [head(use)], them-has so far not been shown to contribute signif-
   [prep(of), head(thermogram)], icantly to retrieval effectiveness (see
   [9,15,3]). Due to [prep(in), head(detection)] the intuitive appeal of
   the use of phrases, a number of [prep(of), head(meningitis)])
   researchers have investigated enhancements to c. detection(
   phrasal-based methods. Lewis and Croft [16], for theme(head(meningitis,
   example, discuss the use of term clustering of syntac-
   concept("Meningitis"), tic phrases, while Croft et al. [7] examine
   phrases semtype(`Disease or Syndrome'))), instr(head( thermogram, head
   and distinguished from treated has important concept("Thermography"),
   consequences during subsequent processing. We semtype(`Diagnostic
   Procedure')))) claim that the structural information provided by this
   We have a running prototype which produces under- analysis contains the
   optimal amount of information specified syntactic analysis,
   successfully maps noun for further processing, namely the mapping of
   simple phrases to the UMLS domain model, and then builds noun phrases
   to concepts in UMLS and the construc- semantic structures. tion of a
   semantic interpretation. MAPPING PHRASES IN FREE TEXT TO THE After all
   noun phrases have been identified, we map UMLS METATHESAURUS these
   structures to concepts in the Metathesaurus using a comprehensive
   mapping program which We have attempted to combine the most effective
   employs extensive variant generation as well as a aspects of the
   various approaches to using phrases in principled way of dealing with
   partial matches information retrieval. Our system first identifies
   between the phrase and Metathesaurus concepts. phrases in free text
   using an underspecified syntactic analysis. We claim that such an
   approach supports the Variant generation is determined by the
   information semantic representations which can effect accurate
   available from our lexicon and associated knowledge matching of queries
   to relevant documents but avoids bases. Variants are recursively
   computed by generat- the problems associated with a fully specified
   syntac- ing morphological variants, synonyms, acronyms and tic analysis
   as noted, for example, by Salton and abbreviations for each lexical
   word in the input Smith [20]. Our syntactic component is closely allied
   phrase. For example, all variants for the phrase ocular to work in
   underspecified syntactic analysis of the complications are listed in
   (3). type discussed in [21] and similar in depth of cover- (3) ocular,
   oculars, oculus, oculi, eyepiece, age to the work of Evans et al [8].
   eyepieces, eye, eyes, eyed, eyeing, eying, optic, We begin by analyzing
   noun phrases and preposi- optics, optical, optically, vision,
   ophthalmic, opthalmia, ophthalmiac, ophthalmiacs, tional phrases. In a
   successful syntactic analysis, complication, complications. heads are
   identified and most items to the left of the head are simply labelled
   as "modifier"; however, par- Once variants have been generated for a
   given phrase, ticiples are singled out and labelled as such. Preposi-
   candidate terms from the Metathesaurus are identi- tional phrases are
   implicitly identified, but during the fied. Such candidates for a noun
   phrase consist of the syntactic phase their attachment is not
   indicated. set of all Metathesaurus terms which contain at least one of
   the variants computed for the phrase and which Although the syntactic
   structure we produce is not satisfy a further condition on partial
   matches dis- fully specified, it has advantages over the unstructured
   cussed below. The candidates for ocular complica- phrases obtained from
   a barrier word approach. Most tions appear in (4), where preferred
   terms are given in importantly, the identification of heads of noun
   parentheses. phrases has significant consequences during the map- ping
   of such phrases to concepts in the Meta- (4) "Complications"
   ("Complication") thesaurus, as will be seen in the following section.
   An "complications <1>" example of the type of syntactic structure we
   assign is "Eye" given in (2b) for the input in (2a). "Optic" ("Optics")
   "Ophthalmia" ("Endophthalmitis") (2) a. patients with sustained
   ventricular tachycardia "Vision" treated with amiodarone The final step
   in the mapping process combines the b. noun_phrase([ [head(patients)],
   best candidates to form mappings between the noun
   [prep(with),mod(sustained),mod(ventricular), phrase and one or more
   Metathesaurus terms. The head(tachycardia),pastpart(treated)], degree
   of similarity between a noun phrase and a
   [prep(with),head(amiodarone)]]) Metathesaurus concept is based on
   factors which take Note in this example that the structure is extremely
   into account how much variation is used to accom- flat; very little
   commitment is made to the internal plish the match, whether the head is
   involved, and structure of the noun phrase. For example, the past how
   much of the Metathesaurus concept and the noun participle treated is
   not assigned a syntactic structure phrase are involved in the match.
   which directly reflects its final interpretation. At the same time, the
   fact that tachycardia is labelled as a This last criterion is based on
   various types of matches which can occur between a noun phrase and a
   Metathesaurus term. In a simple match the noun related to logical form
   (see [22]). The arguments in phrase maps to a single Metathesaurus
   term. For conceptual structure are labelled with semantic case example,
   the input phrase intensive care unit maps to roles [23] in order to
   more clearly specify the relation- "Intensive Care Units". In a complex
   match there is a ships among the concepts represented. For example,
   partitioning of the noun phrase so that each element of we construct
   the (simplified) conceptual structure the partition has a simple match
   to a term in the Meta- given in (7) to represent the semantic
   interpretation of thesaurus. Thus, intensive care medicine maps to the
   hemofiltration in digoxin overdose. The case labels on two terms
   "Intensive Care" and "Medicine". the arguments in (7) indicate that it
   is digoxin over- In a partial match the noun phrase maps to a Meta-
   dose that is being treated through the use of hemofil- thesaurus term
   in such a way that at least one word of tration as an instrument.
   either the noun phrase or the Metathesaurus term (or (7) treat( theme(
   digoxin overdose ), both) does not participate in the mapping. Some
   instr( hemofiltration ) ) examples of partial matches are given in (5).
   Conceptual structures are built through the applica- (5) liquid crystal
   thermography maps to tion of semantic rules which fall into two major
   cate- "Thermography" gories. As much as possible we rely on the UMLS
   ambulatory monitoring maps to "Ambulatory Semantic Network [24], since
   doing so diminishes the Electrocardiographic Monitoring" number of
   semantic rules we must write. When appli- obstructive sleep apnea maps
   to cation of the Semantic Network is not possible, we "Obstructive
   Apnea" appeal to rules which depend crucially on the seman- We
   eliminate partial matches in which both the first tic types obtained
   from UMLS and which are similar and last words of the Metathesaurus
   term do not par- in spirit to those discussed in [21]. ticipate in the
   match. This allows ambulatory moni- In exploiting the Semantic Network
   for semantic toring to map to the Metathesaurus term "Ambulatory
   interpretation we match linguistic patterns against
   Electrocardiographic Monitoring" above, but disal- corresponding
   relationships between semantic types lows, for example, left ventricle
   from mapping to the in the Network. As an example, consider the text
   sin- term "Left Ventricular Outflow Obstruction". With gle
   corticospinal axons in the cat spinal cord and note regard to the
   phrase ocular complications, this rule that axons has semantic type
   `Cell Component', while eliminates "Postoperative Complications".
   Mappings spinal cord is of type `Body Part, Organ, or Organ which do
   not satisfy this rule do not constitute the best Component'.
   Furthermore, in the Semantic Network mapping between noun phrase and
   Metathesaurus. these two semantic types are joined by the relation In
   the final determination of the mappings between `part_of' as noted in
   (8). noun phrase and Metathesaurus term, both less varia- (8)
   part_of(`Cell Component', tion and involvement of the head contribute
   to a stron- `Body Part, Organ, or Organ Compo- ger match. In general, a
   simple match represents a nent') stronger mapping between the input
   phrase and the Metathesaurus term, while complex matches are less In
   order to exploit these facts for semantic interpreta- strong, and
   partial matches represent the weakest tion we need only stipulate that
   the preposition in may mapping from input to Metathesaurus. These
   criteria correspond to the Semantic Network relation determine that of
   the candidate Metathesaurus terms `part_of'. Then, since single
   corticospinal axons in given in (4), those listed in (6) constitute the
   best map the cat spinal cord contains the preposition in and to ocular
   complications. since its semantic types correspond to those in (8) this
   relationship provides the semantic interpretation (9). (6) "Eye"
   "Complication", "complications <1>" (9) part_of( nom( single
   corticospinal axons ), theme( cat spinal cord ) ) RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
   PHRASES: For situations in which an interpretation based on the
   SEMANTIC PROCESSING Semantic Network does not apply, we supply rules of
   Semantic interpretation indicates dependencies semantic interpretation,
   which crucially depend on the among the concepts identified by mapping
   noun UMLS semantic types. In this regard, the semantic phrases to
   concepts in the Metathesaurus. We repre- types associated with
   Metathesaurus concepts can be sent these dependencies in a predicate
   argument struc- generalized. For example, frostbite has the semantic
   ture that we call conceptual structure, which is closely type `Injury
   or Poisoning', while malaria is typed as `Disease or Syndrome'. We
   collapse these types and others referring to medically treatable
   conditions into A solution based on semantic processing depends on the
   generalized type . the partial (and simplified) conceptual structures
   for An example of a domain-specific semantic rule is the query and
   texts given in (13). (10), which states that a noun phrase which is the
   (13) a. treat(theme(malignant gliomas), object of the preposition for
   and whose head has any instr(intra-carotid injection)) of the UMLS
   semantic types covered by the general- b. treat(theme(malignant
   gliomas), ized semantic type can modify a minimal instr(intra-carotid
   BCNU chemotherapy)) noun phrase to the left whose head has the semantic
   c. co-occurs_with( type . Furthermore, the rule states that in
   cotheme(internal carotid aneurysm), conceptual structure the
   relationship between the cotheme(temporal glioma )) noun phrases is
   such that the therapy is used as an instrument to treat the disorder.
   Rule (10) applies to The most important aspect of (13) relevant to the
   (11a) to produce (11b). problem under discussion is that the query and
   the rel- evant title involve the predicate treat. In (13a) and (10)
   [head()] ,[prep(for), head()] (13b) a concept with the semantic type
   `Disease or treat(theme(),instr()) Syndrome' is treated by a concept
   with semantic type (11) a. Electrocoagulation for gastrointestinal
   `Therapeutic or Preventive Procedure'. A quite differ- hemorrhage. ent
   semantic structure has been assigned to the non- b. treat(
   theme(gastrointestinal hemorrhage), relevant title (13c), in which a
   `Disease or Syndrome' instr(electrocoagulation) ) co-occurs with an
   `Acquired Abnormality'. These facts based on semantic conceptual
   structure EXPLOITING SEMANTIC STRUCTURE FOR can be used to improve
   retrieval precision by includ- INFORMATION RETRIEVAL ing a stipulation
   on the retrieval mechanism which In conclusion, we suggest a method of
   exploiting states that in order for a query to match text, the main
   semantic structure to improve retrieval effectiveness. predicate in the
   semantic structure of the query must The example in (12) is constructed
   to be paradigmatic match the main predicate in the conceptual structure
   of one problem associated with the use of either key of the text. This
   requirement eliminates the nonrele- words or phrases in information
   retrieval. Title (12b) vant title (13c) above as a possible match to
   the query. is relevant to query (12a) while (12c) is not. Once such a
   requirement has been met, the normal Boolean query can be issued to
   retrieve the relevant (12) a. Query: Intra-carotid injection of drugs
   for the title (13b). treatment of malignant gliomas b. Title1:
   Intra-carotid BCNU chemotherapy for In so far as semantics is able to
   identify relationships malignant gliomas between phrases and thus more
   precisely represent the content of text, we see this type of processing
   as c. Title2: Association of internal carotid aneurysms and temporal
   glioma showing considerable promise for being able to enhance existing
   information retrieval techniques A reasonable translation of (12a) into
   a Boolean query based on phrases, whether the phrases are directly
   might be (carotid AND glioma). It is not advisable to identified in
   text or result from mapping to a con- include injection in the Boolean
   query, since the con- trolled vocabulary. cept represented by
   intra-carotid injection could well be represented in text by some form
   of infusion, per- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS fusion, or chemotherapy, at least.
   Given this query it is not possible to reject the nonrelevant (12c). We
   would like to acknowledge Allen C. Browne, Alexa T. McCray, Amir Razi,
   and Suresh Srinivasan The use of phrases does not solve the problem,
   and in for their contributions to this project. fact makes it worse.
   The Boolean translation of the query using phrases would probably be
   (intra-carotid References injections AND gliomas). This rejects the
   nonrelevant 1. Tersmette KWF, Scott AF, Moore GW, Matheson title, but
   also rejects the relevant title. NW and Miller RE. "Barrier word method
   for detect- The use of terms from the Metathesaurus alone also ing
   molecular biology multiple word terms." In does not help. "Injections"
   (the term for intra-carotid Greenes RA (ed) Proceedings of the 12th
   Annual injection) does not match "Chemotherapy" (the term SCAMC,
   207-211, 1988. for intra-carotid BCNU chemotherapy). 2. Elkin PL,
   Cimino JJ, Lowe HJ, Aronow DB, Payne 13. Smeaton AF and van Rijsbergen
   CJ. "Experiments TH, Pincetl PS and Barnett GO. "Mapping to MeSH: on
   incorporating syntactic processing of user queries The art of trapping
   MeSH equivalence from within into a document retrieval strategy." In
   Chiaramella Y narrative text." In Greenes RA (ed) Proceedings of the
   (ed.) Proceedings of the 11th International ACM/ 12th Annual SCAMC,
   185-190, 1988. SIGIR Conference, 31-51, 1988. 3. Hersh WR, Hickam DH
   and Leone TJ. "Words, 14. Sparck Jones K and Tait JI. "Automatic search
   concepts, or both: Optimal indexing units for auto- term variant
   generation." Journal of Documentation mated information retrieval." In
   Frisse ME (ed) Pro- 40:50-66, 1984. ceedings of the 16th Annual SCAMC,
   644-648, 1992. 15. Croft WB and Das R. "Experiments with query 4. Lin
   R, Lenert L, Middleton B and Shiffman S. "A acquisition and use in
   document retrieval systems." free-text processing system to capture
   physical find- Proceedings of the 13th Annual International ACM/ ings:
   Canonical phrase identification system SIGIR Conference, 349-368, 1990.
   (CAPIS)." In Clayton PD (ed) Proceedings of the 15th 16. Lewis DD and
   Croft WB. "Term clustering of syn- Annual SCAMC, 168-172, 1991. tactic
   phrases." In Vidick J-L (ed.) Proceedings of the 5. Miller RA,
   Gieszczykiewicz FM, Vries JK and 13th Annual International ACM/SIGIR
   Conference, Cooper GF. "CHARTLINE: Providing bibliographic 385-404,
   1990. references relevant to patient charts using the UMLS 17. Miller
   PL, Smith P, Morrow JS, Riely CL and Metathesaurus knowledge sources."
   In Frisse ME (ed) Powsner SM. "Semantic relationships and MeSH." In
   Proceedings of the 16th Annual SCAMC, 86-90, 1992. Greenes RA (ed)
   Proceedings of the 12th Annual 6. Wagner MM. "An automatic indexing
   method for SCAMC, 174-179, 1988. medical documents." In Clayton PD (ed)
   Proceedings 18. Wendlandt EB and Driscoll JR. "Incorporating a of the
   15th Annual SCAMC, 1011-1017, 1991. semantic analysis into a document
   retrieval strategy." 7. Croft WB, Turtle HR and Lewis DD. "The use of
   In Bookstein A, Chiaramella Y, Salton G and Ragha- phrases and
   structured queries in information van VV (eds.) Proceedings of the 14th
   Annual Inter- retrieval." In Bookstein A, Chiaramella Y, Salton G
   national ACM/SIGIR Conference, 270-279, 1991. and Raghavan VV (eds.)
   Proceedings of the 14th 19. Humphreys BL and Lindberg DAB. "The Unified
   Annual International ACM/SIGIR Conference, 32-45, Medical Language
   System Project: A Distributed 1991. Experiment in Improving Access to
   Biomedical Infor- 8. Evans DA, Ginther-Webster K, Hart M, Lefferts
   mation." In Lun KC, Degoulet P, Piemme T and Rien- RG and Monarch IA.
   "Automatic indexing using hoff O (eds.) Proceedings of MEDINFO 92,
   1496- selective NLP and first-order thesauri." RIAO 91, 1500, 1992.
   Autonoma University of Barcelona, April 2-5, 624- 20. Salton G and
   Smith M. "On the application of 44, 1991. syntactic methodologies in
   automatic text analysis." 9. Fagan JL. Experiments in Automatic Phrase
   Index- In Belkin NJ and van Rijsbergen CJ (eds.) Proceed- ing for
   Document Retrieval: A Comparison of Syntac- ings of the 12th Annual
   International ACM/SIGIR tic and Non-Syntactic Methods. Cornell
   University Conference, 137-150, 1989. Doctoral Dissertation, 1987. 21.
   Agarwal R and Boggess L. "A simple but useful 10. Mauldin ML.
   Conceptual Information Retrieval: approach to conjunct identification."
   Proceedings, A Case Study in Adaptive Partial Parsing. Boston: 30th
   Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa- Kluwer Academic
   Publishers, 1991. tional Linguistics, 15-21, 1992. 11. McCray AT.
   "Extending a Natural Language 22. Allen J. Natural Language
   Understanding. Menlo Parser with UMLS Knowledge." In Clayton PD (ed.)
   Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings, 1987. Proceedings of the 15th Annual
   SCAMC, 194-198, 23. Fillmore CJ. "The case for case." In Bach E and
   1991. Harms R (eds.) Universals in Linguistic Theory. New 12. Metzler
   DP and Haas SW. "The constituent object York: Holt, Rinehart, and
   Winston, 1-90, 1968. parser: Syntactic structure matching for
   information 24. McCray AT and Hole WT. "The Scope and Struc-
   retrieval." In Belkin NJ and van Rijsbergen CJ (eds.) ture of the First
   Version of the UMLS Semantic Net- Proceedings of the 12th Annual
   International ACM/ work." In Miller RA (ed.) Proceedings of the 14th
   SIGIR Conference, 117-126, 1989. Annual SCAMC, 126-130, 1990.
