http://sensorwebs.jpl.nasa.gov/press/LATimes-sensor-webs.pdf

   JUNE 29, 2000 Invasion of the Sensor Pods Science: The plastic boxes
   look like the kind used to store left- overs. But inside are sophisti-
   cated devices to record scientif- ic data-whether in the Huntington
   Gardens or on the surfaces of other planets. KENDALL S. POWELL TIMES
   STAFF WRITER The shiny green hummingbirds and huge bumblebees at
   Huntington Botanical Gardens probably won't even notice the silent
   invaders import- ed from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Twelve plastic
   pods hidden among exotic greenhouse plants are part of a A sensor pod
   nestled in a Huntington Gardens nursery keeps track of the field test
   of a new technology called a environmental conditions that support
   carnivorous plants around it. Such wireless sensor web. The pods
   consti- pods, linked by electronic webs, could be used to study life in
   remote tute an infrastructure that researchers places on Earth--or to
   look for life on other planets with more precision hope will be useful
   in looking for life than satellites could manage. on other planets or
   studying life in hard-to-reach places on Earth. the Huntington collect
   data on the vari- with building the prototypes. The idea may fulfill
   part of ous microclimates in the greenhouses. Jackson--whose hands,
   according NASA's goal to set up a "virtual pres- The sensors can detect
   humidity, soil to Delin, "can do almost anything with ence" throughout
   the solar system. The and air temperatures, soil moisture,
   electronics"--began constructing a pod. scientists imagine that one
   day, groups light levels and oxygen and hydrogen He had to think of a
   way to keep the of pods can be deployed or dropped sulfide gases.
   sensitive hardware dry and still expose from rovers or landing
   spacecraft (or Every five minutes, each pod the device's solar panels
   to sunlight. from planes in remote corners of records this information
   and then trans- "I thought, `We have to put this in Earth). mits it
   back to a "mother node." This something,' so I went to hardware These
   webs of pods could monitor node is a specialized pod connected by
   stores. And then, as I was walking biological activity--in the form of
   a serial port to a field computer. The down the grocery store aisle, I
   thought, released respiratory gases--on a plan- mother node
   synchronizes the pods `This is perfect--clear and waterproof,' et's
   surface with a resolution and sensi- with one another. " Jackson said.
   tivity not attainable by satellites. Kevin A. Delin, project leader,
   and He attached solar panels to the Each pod consists of a solar-pow-
   Shannon P. Jackson, project engineer, bottom of a plastic box (which
   would ered rechargeable battery, a communi- developed the technology at
   JPL. become the top of the pod). He then cation board and a
   microprocessor with Jackson and Delin started out with painted the rest
   of the box white to several sensor wires extending from it. scaled-down
   versions of the pods keep the inside from heating up. All of this is
   housed in a small plastic housed in toy containers from gum ball All of
   the hardware for the pods box like those that you might use to
   machines. When four of those tiny can be bought off the shelf, which
   hold leftovers. pods and a mother node worked in the makes mass
   production highly feasible, Through the sensors, the pods at lab, Delin
   knew they could proceed he said. The pods "talk" to each other
   Continued on next page JUNE 29, 2000 in our solar sys- From previous
   page tem is focused like walkie-talkies over a radio fre- on detecting
   quency with a range of about a quarter- microbes within mile. Because
   wireless technology is rock or ice. progressing rapidly, producing pods
   With a wireless with greater range can only get easier, web of sensors,
   Delin said. scientists say, a JPL chose Huntington Gardens in pod
   placed San Marino as the field test site directly next to because the
   microclimates there range a rock could from desert to semitropical to
   cool. detect trace One pod is in what's called the "car- amounts of
   nivorous bog," a box filled with insect- gases given off trapping
   pitcher plants and Venus' fly- by any traps. microbes The experiment
   has been running inside. continuously since May 18, with excel- Conrad
   also lent results. "We're actually taking sees a wide Kevin A. Delin of
   the Jet Propulsion Laboratory displays a good data, and this is just a
   field test," range of possi- tiny sensor that can be used to study
   microclimates. Delin said. bilities on Theresa Trunnelle, nursery
   manag- Earth, including studying the evolution from others in the web.
   "You can think er at the Huntington, said the pod data of the
   atmosphere and monitoring seis- of each little pod as a pixel in a
   bigger are as accurate as temperatures record- mic activity. She noted
   that one advan- picture," Delin said. ed by her standard equipment, a
   sensor tage of web technology is the ability to This sharing of
   information not hanging in the middle of the green- take many
   measurements over a large only lets the web "heal" itself if one house.
   And, she added, the pods have area simultaneously. member breaks down,
   but also permits the advantage of being portable, so The wireless
   sensor web is pattern recognition. For instance, a they can take
   measurements in differ- extremely versatile, developers say, sensor web
   could be an "intelligent" ent areas of the structure. because pods can
   be added, removed, smoke detector that tells exactly where "We like to
   think [this will give] repaired or upgraded without interrupt- and when
   a fire started and how best to us a greater understanding of the world
   ing the flow of information from the evacuate the area. around us,"
   said Jim Folsom, director rest of the web. JPL scientists see this as
   an addi- of the Huntington Gardens. Folsom The technology can be
   adapted to tional NASA application for monitor- said he believes the
   wireless sensor fit almost any situation. Right now, it ing conditions
   on space shuttles and web has "remarkable potential" in the can cover a
   range about as big as a stations. However, Delin said, he areas of
   agriculture, horticulture and football field. believes the commercial
   and environ- the study of local environmental And because the web
   operates mental uses on Earth are much more changes. In one possible
   use, he envi- essentially on its own, it will allow likely to speed the
   development of the sions a web of pods tracking heat noninvasive
   measurements in sensitive technology than a trip into space. changes in
   a city. environments and continuous measure- "The bus to Mars is
   expensive and Folsom is not the only one who ments at remote locations,
   such as the crowded [with other experiments]," he sees possibilities
   for the new technolo- bottom of the ocean. said. And, like most buses,
   who knows gy. "We're most interested in the Another special feature of
   the sen- when the next one will come along? potential for sensors on
   other planets. sor webs is that each pod communi- * We have every hope
   that it will allow cates with its neighbors. Because the More
   information on wireless sen- us . . . to detect life," said Pamela data
   must "hop" from one pod to the sor web technology is available at:
   Conrad, an astrobiologist at JPL. next on the way to the mother node,
   http://sensorwebs.jpl.nasa.gov. The search for life on other planets
   each pod receives and uses information Kendall S. Powell can be reached
   at kendall.powell@latimes.com © 2000 Times Mirror Company
