http://www.boe.ca.gov/sutax/boe393n.htm


   Welcome to California California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
               skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                 BOE Home
                 About BOE
                 Board Members
                 CA City and County Sales and Use Tax Rates
                 Forms & Publications
                 How to Contact BOE
                 Investigations Division
                 Jobs at BOE
                 Laws, Rules, Regulations
                 Local Tax Statements
                 Property Taxes
                 Sales and Use Tax Programs
                 Seller's Permit Verification
                 Special Tax Programs
                 Taxable Sales
                 Tax Appellate Programs
                 Taxpayers' Rights Advocate
                 Tax News




                   * Disclaimer
                   * Privacy Notice


                               Flex Your Power

             Learn How You Can Save Money - Be Energy Efficient



   California State Board of Equalization



                                                __________ search
                                            ( )  My CA (*)  BOE's Website


                                Registration

    The Board's settlement program is available to taxpayers or feepayers
     who have a petition for redetermination, late protest or claim for
    refund pending in connection with a tax or fee liability administered
    by the Board. Settlement proposals may be considered for civil tax or
    fee matters in dispute under the sales and use tax program or certain
   special tax and fee programs. The settlement program does not presently
    apply to motor vehicle fuel license tax disputes or to insurance tax
     disputes. Also, with the exception of the Childhood Lead Poisoning
     Prevention Fee, and the Occupational Lead Poisoning Prevention Fee,
   disputes involving the Hazardous Substances Tax Law are administered by
                 the Department of Toxic Substances Control.

        The settlement program does not include audits in progress or
     collection matters. Also, litigation cases are handled outside the
   settlement program. The settlement program is intended to expedite the
       resolution of tax and fee disputes consistent with a reasonable
      evaluation of litigation risks and costs. Therefore, a taxpayer's
     inability to pay the disputed liability is not considered under the
    settlement program. If you are only seeking relief from a tax or fee
    liability on the basis of an inability to pay, you should contact the
     Board's District Office that handled the audit to inquire about the
                        Offers in Compromise program.

                           Proposing a Settlement

     To initiate settlement, you must first submit your proposal on form
   BOE-393, Settlement Proposal for Sales and Use Tax and Special Tax and
   Fee Cases, or on a signed and dated written request for settlement that
                                  includes:
       * The taxpayer’s or feepayer’s name, phone number, and current
                                    address;
        * If applicable, the name, address, fax and phone number of the
       taxpayer’s or feepayer’s representative, as well as a copy of the
                      representative’s power of attorney;
               * The taxpayer’s or feepayer’s account number;
                       * The tax or fee period involved;
                        * The tax or fee involved; and
     * A good faith settlement offer, including factual and legal grounds
                            in support of the offer.

    Also, please keep in mind that if you have requested a Board hearing
     for your appeals case or are already scheduled for a Board hearing,
   your case will not be considered for settlement unless your proposal is
      submitted at least 45 days before the first date scheduled for a
             hearing of your case before the five-member Board.

                    Settlement offers should be sent to:

                         State Board of Equalization
                               Ms. Jean Ogrod
           Assistant Chief Counsel, Settlement and Administration
                               Legal Division
                             450 N Street MIC:87
                               P.O. Box 942879
                      Sacramento, California 94279-0087

                     Settlement Review and Negotiations

   After receiving your settlement request, settlement staff will evaluate
    your proposal and advise you or your representative whether your case
    is suitable for settlement consideration. Staff will usually seek to
    settle a case involving genuine factual and/or legal issues. However,
   settlement is discretionary and your case may be declined for a variety
    of reasons. For example, if staff perceives little litigation risk to
   the Board's position, or if sufficient facts to allow proper settlement
       evaluation have not been provided, your case will not likely be
                   accepted for settlement consideration.

    If your case is considered suitable for settlement, staff may accept
     your offer or, if appropriate, seek to negotiate an agreement for a
     different amount. If a tentative agreement is reached, you will be
       asked to sign a formal document setting forth the terms of the
   agreement. The settlement proposal will then be submitted for approval.
   Typically staff will notify you or your representative of the decision
      on the proposal within 90 days of its submission. If the proposed
       settlement requires that you pay an additional amount, you will
   normally be expected to pay the full amount within 30 days of receiving
     notification of the acceptance of the proposal. Settlements entered
     into are final and may be appealed only upon a showing of fraud or
                    misrepresentation of a material fact.

    Generally, an appeals case will continue through the appeals process
      independent of a request for settlement of the disputed amounts.
    Therefore, while you are seeking settlement you must continue to meet
    all applicable deadlines with respect to your petition, late protest
   and/or claim for refund. For instance, if your case is scheduled for an
    appeals conference you will be expected to attend the conference even
      though you submitted a request for settlement consideration. The
    appeals process continues, so that if settlement is not reached, your
                      case will not be unduly delayed.

   For settlements in which the reduction of tax or fee exceeds $500, the
      law requires that a public record statement, available for public
   review, be placed in the Office of the Board's Executive Director. The
            public record will include the following information:
     * The name or names of the taxpayers or feepayers who are parties to
                                 the settlement.
                        * The total amount in dispute.
                   * The amount agreed to in the settlement.
         * A summary of the reasons why the settlement is in the best
                             interests of the State.
       * If applicable, the Attorney General’s conclusion regarding the
                        reasonableness of the settlement.

   Information that relates to any trade secret, patent, process, style of
   work, apparatus, business secret, or organizational structure will not
     be included in the public record if its disclosure would adversely
     affect the taxpayer or feepayer. With the exception of the required
   public record statement, settlements are considered to be confidential
                              tax information.

                           Additional Information

    For additional information on the settlement process, you may contact
   the Settlement and Administration Section at (916) 324-2836 or write to
      the address above. Information on the settlement program is also
    available in Publication 17, "Appeals Procedures," or you can have a
      copy mailed to you by calling the Board’s Information Center, at
                               1-800-400-7115.

                 Featured Links
                   * Board Meetings & Committee Information
                   * BOE Offices
                   * Electronic Services
                   * FAQ's
                   * Formal and Memorandum Opinions
                   * Legislation
                   * Offer in Compromise
                   * Other Useful Links
                   * Settlement Program
                   * Site Map


                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
