http://wwwfpm.water.ca.gov/article/Year%20In%20Review.doc

   National Flood Insurance Program 2001 Year In Review Washington, D.C.,
   December 28, 2001 -- Under the new leadership of FEMA Director Joe M.
   Allbaugh, the Federal Insurance Administration and the Mitigation
   Directorate merged to form the Federal Insurance and Mitigation
   Administration (FIMA), bringing together once again the insurance,
   floodplain management and flood mapping components of the National
   Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to ensure fuller coordination of program
   initiatives and messages. "The NFIP is central to FEMA's mission of
   reducing the impact of natural disasters," Allbaugh said.
   "Pre-disaster, community-based mitigation is the key to minimizing
   property and economic damage and loss of life, and insurance is the
   best protection against the financial risks. No amount of federal
   assistance after a flood disaster can match the speed and thoroughness
   of flood insurance. Flood insurance is effective, fair, and promotes
   accountability," he said. ) Following are brief highlights of some
   significant NFIP developments in 2001: Map Modernization - During
   Fiscal Year 2001, approximately 6,000 Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
   (DFIRM) panels were prepared using the latest Geographic Information
   Systems technology. Flood maps provide essential information for
   insurers, consumers, lenders and government officials. The need to
   update maps to reflect changes in flood hazards caused by recent
   development in many communities is greater than currently available
   funding. FEMA estimates it would need $800 million over seven years, in
   addition to the $50 million it now obtains from map fees each year. But
   full map modernization using emerging technologies could help prevent
   $48 billion in flood damages to new buildings and infrastructure over a
   50-year period. This year, nearly 20 national, state and local
   organizations---representing state and local officials, realtors,
   builders, surveyors and others with a stake in floodplain management,
   emergency response, mitigation, land-use planning and environmental
   protection---formed a coalition to support additional funding for map
   modernization. Cooperating Technical Partners (CTP) - Under this
   initiative, communities, states and/or regional agencies perform all or
   portions of data collection and mapping tasks according to FEMA
   standards. The partnership stretches available dollars and expands and
   accelerates map modernization efforts. In Fiscal Year 2001, FEMA
   allocated $8 million of flood study funding for CTP activities. The
   most extensive such partnership to date is with the state of North
   Carolina, which has initiated a $65 million flood data and flood
   mapping update. . The secure site allows for quick credit card ordering
   and features three easy searching methods. Check the Catalog for brief
   descriptions of all FEMA map products. Map Search helps customers find
   products by a street address or specified area on the map. Quick Order
   allows customers knowledgeable about FEMA products to enter a map panel
   number or community number directly. Customers still can speak with a
   Map Service Center service representative toll-free by calling
   1-800-358-9616. Hardcopy maps are currently being scanned and will be
   available in digital format via the internet in February. National
   Flood Conference - Seven hundred representatives of the insurance and
   lending industries and federal, state and local officials attended the
   annual conference in Minneapolis, Minn., May 22-25, which focused on
   the use of existing and future technology to increase policy growth and
   retention. In his keynote address, Deputy FIMA Administrator Howard
   Leikin said technology has transformed the marketing, rating and
   delivery of insurance. "We want to ensure that information, policies
   and technical assistance are delivered to our customers and partners
   efficiently and accurately, and we want to build a program that is
   financially sound," he said. Cover America II - This nationwide ad
   campaign recently moved from increasing public awareness of flood risks
   and flood insurance to generating call-in responses from interested
   consumers to facilitate customer-agent contact and boost policy sales.
   The response to two TV spots that cable stations began carrying in
   October has been outstanding---close to 9,500 calls the first month, an
   increase of more than 5,000---and resulted in the highest percentage of
   agent referrals ever. In November, the NFIP held a brainstorming
   session for representatives of the insurance and lending industries and
   other federal agencies that produced fresh ideas and new tactics for
   increasing sales. Concept of Operations - To achieve its goals in a
   web-oriented world, FIMA engaged its Write Your Own company partners to
   help develop a conceptual technical architecture design, or Concept of
   Operations, that will use emerging technologies to make the entire
   process of writing flood insurance-accessing, sharing and using flood
   data, and adjusting claims-more user-friendly and information-oriented,
   thereby increasing program efficiency and decreasing costs. Further
   discussions with an expanded group of WYO partners are scheduled in
   January. for the basic and/or advanced version of the state-of-the-art,
   interactive Agent Tutorial module. Rule Changes - In August, following
   a thorough review by FIMA, a final rule was published in the Federal
   Register allowing a one percent increase in the expense allowance paid
   to private insurers that sell and service flood insurance to reflect
   more accurately their costs in writing policies and servicing claims.
   In November, a final rule was published revising NFIP regulations to
   include definitions for future-conditions hydrology and for the
   floodplains that may be shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for
   informational purposes at the request of a community. In December, the
   Federal Register published a proposed rule that will enable the NFIP to
   increase rates charged for pre-FIRM, V-zone properties-older structures
   built in high-hazard coastal areas---that currently are eligible for
   so-called "subsidized" rates. This would bring their premiums more in
   line with their actual risk, and also reflects last year's findings of
   a Congressionally mandated study that without such changes, V-zone
   rates will seriously underestimate the increasing flood risks from
   steadily eroding coastlines. Risk Pools - Under another proposed rule
   published in the Federal Register, the NFIP would launch a three-year
   pilot project that would permit governmental risk pools to sell flood
   insurance to public entities to cover their public buildings. This
   would allow this market segment to be protected against flood losses
   under the same mechanism local governments typically use for other
   coverages. Participants in the pilot would be limited to no more than
   six, and they must comply with the eligibility criteria and performance
   standards that are required of private insurance companies
   participating in the Write Your Own program. NFIP Extinguishes Debt -
   During times of unusually heavy losses, the NFIP exercises its
   statutory borrowing authority with the U.S. Treasury. Then, as claims
   subside, it repays borrowed funds, with interest, from premium income.
   By the end of June, the NFIP had repaid the last of some $1.6 billion
   borrowed incrementally over the previous five years. Tropical Storm
   Allison - The costliest single flood event in NFIP history, Allison
   caused major flooding in Texas and Louisiana and heavy losses in other
   states as distant as Pennsylvania. Flood damage resulted in over 30,000
   claims and the final payout will exceed $1 billion. Through its
   insurance industry partners, the NFIP moved swiftly to respond.
   Adjustors from all parts of the country traveled to affected areas to
   meet the needs of stricken policyholders. Multi-Billion-Dollar Storm
   Conference - In April, FIMA hosted a conference in Charleston, S.C., to
   review our readiness to respond to catastrophic damages resulting from
   multi-peril events. For exercise purposes, FIMA posed having to respond
   to a pair of massive hurricanes that might strike the U.S. in rapid
   succession. Participants included federal and state agencies, insurers,
   independent adjusting firms, wind pool associations, departments of
   insurance and others, who studied scenarios detailing damage to real
   property and infrastructure from two simulated Category V
   hurricanes--one devastating parts of Florida and causing massive flood
   and wind damage to other southeastern states, followed days later by
   another coming ashore at Brownsville, Texas, and moving through
   Houston. Insurance claims from such storms could number in the
   millions, and 70-80 percent of these areas' infrastructure could be
   destroyed. Many recommendations emerged, among them the creation of a
   Super Catastrophe Claims Office outside but near the affected areas,
   with private insurance companies and the NFIP co-located to service
   their customers. Another major meeting/exercise is being scheduled for
   2002. Updated: January 2, 2002
