http://exchanges.state.gov/education/citizens/culture/

   [banpol.gif]


      E   d   u   c   a   t   i   o   n   a   l     a   n   d     C   u
   l   t   u   r   a   l      A   f   f   a   i   r   s
      C u l t u r al   P r o g r a m s for Arts Professionals and
   Educators

                                  - N E W -
                              Jazz Ambassadors
                                  Programs
                             Millennium Projects
                              American Cultural
                                 Specialists
                            International Visual
                               Arts Festivals
                          International Performing
                               Arts Festivals
                              Jazz Ambassadors
                                Feature Film
                                   Service
                           Creative Arts Exchanges
                         International Partnerships
                                Among Museums
                                   Citizen
                                  Exchanges
                                  Homepage

     The Cultural Programs Division carries out a targeted program of
     cultural activities based on the goals of the Fulbright-Hays Act of
     1961. These activities promote mutual understanding between the
     peoples of the United States and other countries. They serve to
     highlight, for selected foreign audiences, the creativity, and
     dynamism of American society and the contributions that diversity
     has made to its accomplishments. Cultural programs also underscore
     the respect that the United States holds for the achievements of
     other national cultures.

     These programs are for professional American artists, filmmakers,
     musicians and other specialists. They are not for students or adult
     study. The participants in these programs enrich their work through
     exposure to other cultures, while foreign audiences and partners are
     equally influenced by the freedom of expression that is a hallmark
     of the arts in the U.S. The participation of U.S. cultural
     institutions and artists in these program enhances their
     international profiles and reputation, links them to partner
     institutions overseas and provides them with access to the
     Department of State's years of expertise in overseas programming,

     The Cultural Programs Division's activities are structured to
     provide participating American institutions and artists with a
     richer understanding of their fields overseas and build
     international partnerships, while meeting the needs of American
     Embassies overseas. The programs create partnerships among the
     Department of State, American institutions, and foreign institutions
     to create presentations that showcase overseas the achievements of
     the arts in America, promote respect for cultural diversity and
     understanding along with activities that promote the role of culture
     in economic development, conflict resolution, and
     democracy-building. Also included are literature programs, cultural
     preservation and conservation projects, and initiatives that
     highlight intellectual property rights, the use of the arts to
     promote greater awareness of social issues such as human rights, the
     role of women in society, drug prevention, and environmental
     protection.
     hr
     For further information, contact:
     Cultural Programs Division Staff (ECA/PE/C/CU)
     Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs
     U.S. Department of State
     SA-44, 301 4th Street, SW, Suite 568
     Washington, D.C. 20547
     (phone) 202/619-4779
     (fax) 202/619-6315
     hr Top of page
