http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/news.htm

   [USEMAP:header.gif]
   Safety Home Site Map Search
   News and Events

   What's New

   Professional Resources
   Programs
   Facts and Data
   Media Center

   Community Resources
   Programs
   Road User Resources
   Programs
   Media Center
   News and Events
   Press Room
   Newsletter

News

   December 10, 2001

   Richard Powers Congratulations to Mr. Richard Powers who has been
   presented with the annual National Safety Leadership Award for 2001.
   This award is presented each year to an FHWA manager selected by the
   field safety staff who has demonstrated a strong commitment to
   improving highway safety.

   Richard is a Highway Engineer in the Office of Safety Design under the
   FHWA's Safety Core Business Unit. The award was presented at the annual
   FHWA Leadership Safety Meeting in Denver, Colorado on behalf of the
   FHWA Safety field staff in the Federal-aid Division Offices, Resource
   Centers, and Federal Lands Highway Divisions. Richard was recognized by
   the field for his continuing dedication to road safety, which has
   included: leadership and guidance for field safety engineers,
   commitment to safety through activities such as updating and teaching
   NHI's AASHTO Roadside Design Guide training course and developing a
   Technical Advisory on the use of shoulder rumble strips, and
   responsiveness to field safety engineers seeking technical or program
   advice and assistance. He was also instrumental in developing the
   Safety Hardware web site which contains information on all roadside
   appurtenances accepted by FHWA for use on the National Highway System.

Events

   FY 2001 National Events Conferences/Meetings/Workshops Schedule

   Put the Brakes on Fatalities Day - October 10, 2001
   Each year 42,000 Americans are killed on our Nation's Roadways.
   Imagine... a day with ZERO traffic fatalities. That dream can become a
   reality on October 10, 2001. Find out more about the first annual Put
   the Brakes on Fatalities Day.

   2001 NATIONAL WALK YOUR CHILDREN TO SCHOOL DAY
   On Oct. 2, 2001, communities throughout the United States will have a
   chance to join countries around the globe in celebrating International
   Walk to School Day.

   2001 STOP ON RED WEEKSeptember 1 - 7
   National Stop on Red Week - a week dedicated to educating Americans
   about the dangers of running red lights - now takes place during the
   first full week of September every year, going from Saturday to Friday.
   This year it will be September 1 - 7, 2001

   National Work Zone Awareness Week 2001
   "Enhancing Safety and Mobility in Work Zones", April 9-12, 2001.
   Click here to visit the website

   Back To Top
   Safety Logo
   FHWA

                   Home | About Us | Contact Us | Feedback
        Department of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration
