http://ccl.dss.cahwnet.gov/docs/message.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CCLD Home
                          Facility Types
                          Search for a Facility
                          Licensing Forms
                          Employment
                          District Offices
                          Community Care Updates
                          Regulations
                          An Overview of Licensing
                          Provider Letters
                          Index to Precedent
                          Links
                          Website Comments
                          Website Search
                          Internal Applications



   Welcome to the CCLD Website



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Welcome from the CCL Deputy Director

   Community Care Licensing is a Division of the California Department of
   Social Services. Community Care includes non-medical care for dependant
   Californians. Dependant care is provided in care centers or providers'
   homes, and includes child care, 24-hour residential services, and adult
   day care. The Community Care Licensing Division supervises care
   facilities to promote the health and safety of all persons in community
   care setting

   My name is Martha Lopez, and I am the Deputy Director of Community Care
   Licensing. It is my personal goal to provide the best possible
   community care licensing service for those dependant on community care,
   their loved ones, and care providers throughout California. This new
   and improved Internet Home Page will help achieve that goal.

   Individual sections provide information on how to become a licensed
   provider and how to keep current on licensing requirements. Consumers
   can find out how to select care that best meets their needs, how to
   evaluate care, and who to call if a problem arises. Our new website
   also includes information about the TrustLine Program, Self Assessment
   Guides, Child Care Calendar of Events, and Live Scan fingerprinting
   services offered in our District Offices.

    Whether you are a care provider or consumer, I'm sure you will find
   the information on our home page very useful. If you need assistance
   finding information on our web site or would like to provide some
   comments just click on the "Comments" button we would be pleased to
   hear from you. I know I speak for everyone in Community Care Licensing
   when I say it is our privilege to serve you.

   Sincerely,


   Martha Lopez, Deputy Director
   Community Care Licensing Division

   Martha Lopez



                             Back to Top of Page

            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
