http://walden.house.gov/press/jan/02/pr_012502.htm

                                                                  [press.jpg]

   January 25, 2002
   [Home__________] Go


   Walden Visits Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to Inspect Taliban and al Qaeda Detention
Facilities

Visit to Camp X-Ray part of congressional delegation to evaluate treatment of
prisoners; Walden meets with Oregonian Marine Cpl. Chris Leach

   GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today traveled
   to Camp X-Ray, the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
   being used to house Taliban and al Qaeda fighters captured in
   Afghanistan.  Walden and 16 other members of the U.S. House spent more
   than three hours at the U.S. Naval Station, where they inspected the
   detention facilities and received a briefing from military personnel in
   charge of the facility.  Prior to his trip, Congressman Walden
   expressed his desire to evaluate firsthand whether recent international
   criticism concerning the treatment of the prisoners had merit.

   "The notion that these Taliban and al Qaeda detainees are in any way
   being mistreated while in U.S. custody at Guantanamo Bay is absolutely
   absurd and totally false," said Walden.  "If anything, the detainees'
   living spaces are larger and cooler than the tents our men and women in
   uniform are living in while more permanent quarters are being
   constructed.  Moreover, the treatment of the Taliban and al Qaeda
   members is entirely consistent with the Geneva Convention.  They are
   being provided three meals a day that conform with Muslim dietary laws,
   are given the same quality of medical care afforded to our service men
   and women, and are allowed to worship freely," said Walden.

   Copies of the Koran have been provided to each detainee being held at
   Camp X-Ray, and signs have been posted indicating the direction of
   Mecca for their daily prayers.  A Muslim cleric, who is a member of the
   U.S. military, has been assigned to the installation to lead the
   detainees in prayer and offer spiritual guidance.

   Addressing criticism of the prisoners treatment, Walden continued, "Our
   overseas critics owe us an apology.  Remember, these detainees are the
   ringleaders of international terrorism.  We're treating them to better
   food, cleaner water and higher quality healthcare than they would be
   receiving if they were still in Afganistan, he said.  Upon arrival they
   are given a shower and then a chest x-ray, which is examined that
   night.  They receive a medical review and have the opportunity to send
   letters to their families.  Several have undergone medical treatment,
   including surgery, to repair broken bones and wounds suffered weeks
   before in battle.  I dare say we're treating them far better than the
   Taliban treated the women of Afghanistan during their rule.

   The facility at Camp X-Ray currently houses 158 Taliban and al Qaeda
   members. Defense Department officials estimate that most of the
   detainees are in their 20s and 30s.   "We were told that these
   detainees come from 25 different countries, which further underscores
   to me how widespread terrorism has become," said Walden.

   Congressman Walden had high praise for the uniformed personnel guarding
   the detainees at Camp X-Ray.  What really stood out to me was the
   incredible ability of our armed forces to once again step up to this
   challenge, he said.  The decision to house detainees at Guantanamo Bay
   was made over Christmas and New Years, and five days later they began
   receiving detainees.  Most of our service men and women had just a few
   days to get here.  They're working around the clock to construct
   detainment, processing and medical care facilities, and the concrete
   has hardly had a chance to dry.  Its difficult to tell if this is a
   prison in the middle of a construction site, or a construction site in
   the middle of a prison," said Walden.

   Walden had an opportunity to meet with Marine Corporal Chris Leach of
   Tigard, Oregon, while visiting the detention camp.  Corporal Leach is
   assigned to a unit that stands ready to assist guards in the event of a
   disturbance within the compound.  "I am so proud of Chris and his
   colleagues, said Walden.  These brave and talented men and women are
   serving our country well, and the job theyre doing to protect their
   fellow citizens by detaining these terrorist deserves praise, not
   criticism.  I'm glad I got to see it firsthand."

   Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of
   Oregon, which includes the 20 counties of southern, central and eastern
   Oregon. Rep. Walden is a member of the House Energy and Commerce
   Committee and The House Committee on Resources

                                    # # #
