http://www-fmi.fnal.gov/MI_Physics/mont_dpf99.ps

   Physics with the Main Injector Hugh E. Montgomery Fermi National
   Accelerator Laboratory, P.O. Box 500, Batavia, Illinois 60510, U.S.A.
   The Main Injector is a new rapid cycling accelerator at Fermilab which
   is a source of protons to be used in antiproton production to enhance
   the luminosity of the Tevatron Collider and to provide extracted beams
   for use in a range of fixed target experiments. We discuss the current
   status of the accelerator and the physics which it enables. The physics
   ranges broadly over the standard model and beyond, from the search for
   neutrino mass to collider physics at the highest energy available
   today. I. INTRODUCTION Since its construction the protons and
   anti-protons used in the Tevatron Collider have been produced and
   injected into the Tevatron, by the Main Ring which was the original 400
   GeV proton synchrotron constructed during the 1970's. The Main Injector
   is a new 120-150 GeV rapid cycling synchrotron in a tunnel separate
   from that of the Tevatron. The Main Injector improves significantly the
   anti-proton production capability of the complex. The new 8 GeV
   permanent magnet storage ring, the Recycler, in the Main Injector
   tunnel, permits reuse of the anti-protons that remain in the Tevatron
   at the end of a store. Since most of the luminosity degradation results
   from beam dilution rather than anti-proton loss, this effectively
   doubles the available anti-protons for collisions. The greatly
   increased luminosity of the Tevatron Collider opens up windows on new
   physics. The production rate for heavy objects such as the top quark
   will be greatly enhanced. Perhaps most strikingly the increased
   luminosity may eventually provide sensitivity to the Higgs boson system
   which is thought to generate the mass of the observed particles, the W
   boson, the Z boson, and the quarks and leptons. The Main Injector is
   constructed with extracted beams that can be used for fixed target
   experiments. The operational possibilities are sufficiently flexible to
   interleave anti-proton production and fixed target physics with modest
   impact on either. One of the primary uses of the high intensity
   extracted proton beam will be to produce a beam of neutrinos which will
   then be directed towards the Soudan mine in Minnesota where a distant
   detector can make measurements on the evolution of the neutrino species
   in the beam. The couplings of the three generations of quarks are
   described using the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa flavor mixing matrix. A
   complete understanding this matrix does not yet exist. For example, the
   violation of Charge-Parity symmetry has been observed in the decay of
   neutral long-lived K0L mesons but nowhere else. Kaon beams from the
   Main Injector promise key measurements in that system. The analogous
   investigation of the b-quark system is only beginning. The collider
   experiments CDF and DO/ or/and a new dedicated experiment, BTeV, have
   ready access to large numbers of B hadrons, thus permitting extensive
   measurements beyond those being made at electron-positron B factories.
   The varieties of physics in these different sectors are all at or
   beyond the edge of our theoretical understanding and offer new insight
   on our world. In the rest of this paper we explore the machine and the
   enabled physics in a little more detail. II. THE MACHINE The Main
   Injector is a rapid cycling proton synchrotron with a circumference
   half that of the Tevatron. Protons are injected from the Booster
   machine to the Main Injector at 8 GeV and are accelerated to 120 GeV
   for either extraction to the anti-proton production target or to an
   external physics target. For injection of either protons or
   anti-protons into the Tevatron, the Main Injector ramps to 150 GeV. 1
   The machine performance parameters of interest for the particle
   physicist are given in Table I. In mixed modes of operation, the Main
   Injector can deliver 2:5 1013 protons to the experimental target and
   5:0 1012 protons to the anti-proton production target every 2.87 secs.
   This causes a 15-20% reduction of anti-proton production as a result of
   the increased cycle time. There are also potential improvements which
   could ultimately yield 5 \Gamma 10 1013 protons per cycle. TABLE I.
   Main Injector Performance Characteristics. p Production Fast Spill Slow
   Spill Energy(GeV) 120 120 120 Protons per Cycle 5:0 1012 3:0 1013 3:0
   1013 Flat Top(secs) 0.01 0.01 1.00 Cycle Time(secs) 1.47 1.87 2.87 The
   Collider luminosity is controlled by the total number of anti-protons
   available to accelerate and store. The antiprotons are produced by the
   120 GeV protons incident on a nickel target. The produced anti-protons
   are focussed with a Lithium lens and collected in a debuncher ring at 8
   GeV. From the debuncher they are transferred to the accumulator ring,
   also at 8 GeV, where they are cooled, thus producing stored anti-proton
   bunches. These are transferred to the 8 GeV Recycler ring before
   acceleration in the Main Injector, and eventually the Tevatron, to the
   full energy. During a store, nuclear collisions cause some attrition
   while the beam-beam effects lead to an increase in the emittance of the
   beams. This effect dominates the reduction in luminosity over a period
   of hours. The effect is most strong on the anti-protons since the
   proton bunches are, in general, more intense than those of
   anti-protons. At the end of a store, which is usually defined by the
   luminosity having dropped to a few tenths of its initial value, the
   number of anti-protons has only reduced by a factor of two or less.
   These survivors can be decelerated through the Tevatron and Main
   Injector and captured in the Recycler. This is an 8 GeV permanent
   magnet machine equipped with stochastic cooling. It permits the
   recovery of emittances suitable for reinjection into the Tevatron and
   thus results in an effective factor of two enhancement to the number of
   available anti-protons under normal operation. The Tevatron Collider
   will operate with the luminosities indicated in Table II TABLE II.
   Tevatron Collider Operating Characteristics. Bunch Spacing(nsec) Inst.
   Luminosity(1031cm2sec\Gamma 1) Interactions per crossing Luminous
   Region(cm) Run Ib (1994-6) 3500 1.6a 1-2 30 Run II (2000-3) 396/132
   10/20 1-2/1-2 30/15 Run III(2004-7) 132 50 5 15 aThis was typical, the
   absolute record exceeded 2.5 1031cm2sec\Gamma 1. Further enhancements
   can be expected from the introduction of electron cooling in the
   Recycler and from the use of tune compensation in the Tevatron. A
   possible accumulation of integrated luminosity as a function of time is
   shown in Table III. Before the full operation of the Large Hadron
   Collider at CERN, more than 10 fb \Gamma 1 could be expected. TABLE
   III. Tevatron Collider Integrated Luminosity. Year 2000 2001 2002 2003
   2004 2005 2006 2007 Peak Luminosity(1031cm2sec\Gamma 1) 5 10 20 40 50
   50 50 Integrated Luminosity(fb\Gamma 1) 0.5 1.0 2.0 4.5 5.5 5.5 5.5
   Accumulated Luminosity(fb\Gamma 1) 0.5 1.5 3.5 8.0 13.5 19.0 24.0 2 The
   Main Injector was being commissioned [1] at the time of the conference
   and that process has gone extremely well. In particular the machine is
   being operated with parameter values near those of the design and with
   relatively minimal use of correction elements. As for performance, it
   is already close to its intensity and cycle time goals. Meanwhile the
   Recycler is still in the final stages of installation. Beam has been
   passed through a fraction of its circumference. III. THE PHYSICS A.
   Neutrino Mixing and mass Over the years there have been speculations
   about whether or not neutrinos have identically zero mass. If not, one
   expects the weak eigenstates states to mix so that a pure beam of
   neutrinos of one species will evolve to contain an admixture of
   neutrinos of one or more other species. This phenomenon is called
   neutrino oscillation. The probability that a transition takes place is
   proportional to sin2(1:27\Delta m2L=E) where the difference in mass
   squared between the two neutrino states, \Delta m2, is measured in (eV
   )2, the path length, L, in kilometres and the energy, E, in GeV. The
   strength of the oscillations is usually described by a factor sin2 2`.
   At the present time there are a number of observations [2] from
   experiments which could be explained had the the neutrinos a finite
   mass. However the picture is quite complicated. The observation of a
   deficit of neutrinos from the sun suggests oscillations with very low
   \Delta m2. The experiments measuring the fluxes of atmospheric
   neutrinos, including the recent results from Kamiokande [3], suggest
   \Delta m2 ' 10 \Gamma 3 \Gamma 10\Gamma 2(eV )2 with maximal strength.
   The LSND experiment at Los Alamos has observed a hint of oscillations
   with \Delta m2 ' 10 \Gamma 2 \Gamma 100(eV )2 with sin2 2` as low as 10
   \Gamma 3. These observations are indicated in Fig. 1 [5]. FIG. 1. Hints
   of neutrino oscillations from present measurements. Note that the most
   recent atmospheric measurements, reported at this conference, suggest a
   region of \Delta m2 somehwat higher than indicated in this figure from
   the summer of 1998. The NuMI project, Neutrinos at the Main Injector,
   will construct a neutrino beam with energies peaking in the 10-25 GeV
   range. These neutrinos will be directed at two detectors, one on the
   Fermilab site, the other 740 km further north in the Soudan mine in
   Minnesota, see Fig. 2. 3 FIG. 2. Map indicating the trajectory of the
   neutrino beam from Fermilab to the Soudan mine in Minnesota. Inset at
   the bottom is a "section" of the earth showing the penetration of the
   neutrino trajectories through the earth's crust. The MINOS experiment
   [4], Main Injector Neutrino Oscillation, will comprise two detectors
   one on the Fermilab site which monitors the neutrino beam interactions
   close to the source and one at the Soudan mine. The far detector
   sketched in Fig. 3 will consist of iron toroid plates and solid
   scintillator sheets. The goals of the experiment are unequivocally to
   observe the oscillations indicated by the SuperKamiokande and other
   experiments and to identify the mode(s) of oscillation. Neutral current
   events are distinguished from charged current events using measurements
   of the shapes of the neutrino induced showers. This technique gives
   some promise of positive identification of oscillations into *o/ . This
   capability could be enhanced by a supplementary emulsion detector
   should the existing measurements continue to suggest that the *o/ mode
   is the relevant one. The sensitivity of the experiment is primarily at
   high values of sin2 2` and with \Delta m2 * 10 \Gamma 3(eV )2. 32,000 m
   Active Detector Planes 2 480,000 channels x and y strip/wire readout B
   Magnet coil Fermilab 36 m Magnetized Fe Plates 10.0 kT Total Mass600
   Layers x 4 cm Fe Typical Minotaur MINOS (Main Injector Neutrino
   Oscillation Search) Far (Labyrinth) Detector 8m FIG. 3. Layout of the
   MINOS "Far Detector" which will be situated in the Soudan mine. The
   mini-BooNE experiment [6], Booster Neutrino Experiment, is not a Main
   Injector experiment. Rather it uses 4 protons from the 8 GeV proton
   Booster machine to generate low energy neutrinos. Using an apparatus
   derived from that of LSND and situated about 1 km from the source, it
   aims definitively to cover that region of parameter space corresponding
   to the LSND observations. The systematic uncertainties would be
   significantly different from those of LSND. B. Physics of the Kaon
   System The Cabbibo-Kobayashi-Maskawa(CKM) matrix has nine elements that
   can be described using four real parameters of which one is a phase
   angle. In turn, if the matrix is unitary, these parameters can be
   represented by a triangles. The lengths of the sides are controlled by
   the various transition amplitudes. The magnitude of Charge-Parity(CP)
   symmetry violation is controlled by the phase angle. This description
   of the quarks and their couplings may or may not hold in nature. It is
   one of the highest priorities of high energy physics to explore the CKM
   matrix in more detail and to determine whether or not the conjectures
   about its properties are true. At present the single indication of CP
   symmetry violation, which is what requires the complex matrix element,
   occurs in the K0L system [7]. At present CP violation has not been
   observed in any other system containing strange quarks nor yet
   definitively observed in the b-quark sector [8]. The conditions for
   existence of CP violation in any given system may be quite involved. In
   the K0L system, for example, at the time of the conference it was still
   possible for the observed CP violation to be completely described by
   the mixing effects which are controlled by the parameter ffl. The
   search is for CP violation in the decay, " direct CP violation", which
   is controlled by the parameter ffl'. The new measurement [7,9], which
   appeared since the time of the conference, give Re(ffl'/ffl)' (28
   \Sigma 4) \Theta 10 \Gamma 4 K0L nn0p K0L p 0 e e+ - e /e' K nn+ +p B
   lldB llXd B Xd nn |V /V |ub cbh r 0-1 1 2 1 0.5 1.5 g a b A C B e B -B0
   0 FIG. 4. The Unitarity Triangle associated with the
   Cabbibo-Kobayashi-Maskawa flavor mixing matrix and the measurements
   possible in the kaon system. In order to make progress, thoughts have
   turned to other possibilities [11]. A version [10] of the unitarity
   triangle is shown in Fig. 4. In principle it is possible to
   over-constrain the triangle and hence to test the theory using only
   measurements with kaons. As indicated, a measurement of the branching
   fraction for K0L ! ss0** would directly constrain the height of the
   triangle while a similar measurement of the charged decay K+ ! ss+**
   determines the radius of an arc which should also pass through the apex
   of the triangle, if the theory is correct. 5 The charged kaon decay has
   been sought [12] at Brookhaven national Laboratory in the decays of
   stopped kaons with one event observed. Recently a proposal [13], the
   "CKM" experiment, has been made to use decays in flight. The apparatus
   is shown in Fig. 5; the beam would be a 22 GeV radiofrequency-separated
   beam of charged kaons at the Main Injector. It is interesting to look
   carefully at the aspect ratio of the experiment. It is very long and
   very narrow approximating an instrumented sewer pipe. The goal is to
   fully identify and measure the incident kaon and the outgoing charged
   pion, the only two measurable particles in the process. Beam Dum p
   AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA
   AA AA AA AA AA AA AA AA AA AAAAAAAA AAAA
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA CCC KKK MMM A
   pparatus Kaon RICH 0.7 atm CF4 Vacuum Decay Volum e Pion RICH 1 atm
   Neon u veto Forward Veto Calorim eter Vacuum veto 30MHz separated 22
   GeV/c K+ Beam Downstream Magnetic Spectrom eter Beam Interaction Veto
   Hole Veto Kaon Entrance Angle Tracker BM109 Magnet Charged Veto Plane
   p+ AAAAAA AAAAAA AAA AA A AA A AAAA AA AAAA AA AAAAAA AAA AAAAAA AAA
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AA AA A AA AA A AAAA
   AAAA AA AAAA AAAA AA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAA AAAAAA AAAAAA AAA
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAA AAAAAA Beam
   Tim e stam p Z [m ]0 20 30 40 60 908010 70 10050 X [ cm ] 20 40 60 80 0
   100 120 Upstream Magnetic Spectrom eter FIG. 5. Layout of the CKM
   Experiment. The equivalent neutral kaon experiment [14], "KaMI", which
   would search for K0L ! ss0** could be derived from the KTeV experiment
   making the recent measurements of ffl'/ffl at Fermilab. The key
   elements are the electromagnetic calorimeter and the photon vetos which
   are crucial to the background suppression. As with the charged kaon
   decay, this would be a very difficult measurement. WindowVacuum
   HodoscopeCharged 175 m 185 m 195 m 205 m Vacuum Veto KAMI DETECTOR
   LAYOUT VetoBeam Hole Fiber Tracker Magnet Stack Muon Range Hadron Anti
   165 m 0 m 1 m 155 m145 m CsI CsI Anti 2 m 2 m 1 m Mask Anti FIG. 6.
   Layout of the KAMI Experiment Completing the suite of kaon proposals is
   the "CPT" Experiment [15]. The goal is to measure CP violation in a
   number of modes especially in K0S decays. It also gives the opportunity
   to measure the phase of the charged pion decays which in conjunction
   with the measurement of ffl'/ffl gives a check on CPT symmetry with a
   sensitivity which 6 corresponds to the Planck scale. It should be
   noted, see Fig. 7, that since it is necessary to measure the
   interference terms between K0L and K0S, the apparatus would be
   significantly shorter than either of the other two experiments. The K0
   beam is derived from the same RF-separated K+ beam that is used for the
   "CKM" experiment. Region MuonDetector DriftChamber #1 DriftChamber #2
   DriftChamber #4 DriftChamber #3 PbG Calorimeter Vacuum 0 0.5 1 -0.5 -1
   1.5m -1.5m AnalysisMagnet Counter Hodoscope 0 5 10 15 20 25m FIG. 7.
   Layout of the CPT Experiment. C. Physics of the B System In order to
   access large numbers of b quarks at Fermilab, it is necessary to turn
   to the Tevatron Collider. The existing two detectors, CDF, see Fig. 8,
   and DO/ see Fig. 9, are being upgraded for operation in the Main
   Injector era. The upgrades [16,17] are extensive and are driven by the
   physics goals and by the changed operating characteristics of the
   Tevatron; the decreased spacing between bunch crossings has forced a
   rework of all the front-end eleectronic systems to introduce pipelines.
   A particular region of improvement is in the tracking in which each
   detector is being substantially modified. DO/ has installed a central
   solenoid and both experiments are constructing new outer trackers. The
   inner, silicon, systems will have upward of 600,000 channels each.
   These will provide high quality b-quark tagging and B meson
   reconstruction. In addition to enhancing the B-physics capabilities,
   b-quark tagging is recognised as an important tool in the exploration
   of and search for higher mass states. This was demonstrated in
   top-quark physics and is expected to be true for Higgs, SUSY or
   technicolor states. FIG. 8. The upgraded CDF detector. 7 FIG. 9. The
   upgraded DO/ apparatus. The physics which will be addressed by CDF and
   DO/ is wide ranging. In later sections electroweak studies and physics
   beyond the standard model will be addressed but in this section we will
   concentrate on B physics. Recent results from CDF presage a bright
   future for the general purpose detectors at the Tevatron and for B
   physics at hadron colliders more generally. There is also an initiative
   to consider a dedicated detector [18]. The BTeV proposal is motivated
   by the enormous production rate for b quarks and the potential of a
   detector which accentuates the forward and backward directions in order
   to exploit the favorable mapping of rapidity to solid angle and to
   benefit from the relatively larger decay lengths for b quarks of a
   given transverse momentum. The planned detector is shown in Fig. 10. It
   consists of two spectrometer arms. Each arm is equipped with a silicon
   detector system inside the beam pipe and ring imaging Cherenkov
   counters. It is expected that the latter will be especially important.
   FIG. 10. The BTeV apparatus. If the standard model is correct, the same
   triangle in Fig. 4 should describe the b-quark system. Measurements of
   the CP violating asymmetry in the decay B ! J=K0S would determine sin
   2fi. The recent measurement [8] from CDF finds sin 2fi = 0:79+0:41
   \Gamma 0:44 suggesting a positive value at about the 90% C.L. A feature
   of this measurement is the use of several different flavor tagging
   techniques. With approximately 2fb \Gamma 1 and the upgraded detectors,
   the uncertainty on sin 2fi will be reduced below 0.1 for each
   experiment. Similar uncertainties are projected for sin 2ff although
   the interpretation for this case is considered to be more difficult.
   Measurement of the third angle, fl, will be a challenge. 8 During the
   last year, there have been a number of results from CDF on various
   aspects of higher mass B hadron states. The measurements of Bs mixing
   [19] are competitive with those from LEP and SLD. Extrapolating to Run
   II, we expect sensitivities in the range xs * 25 from each experiment
   thus comfortably covering the expected range. The observation [20] of
   the Bc meson has further demonstrated that sophisticated studies of B
   physics are possible at a hadron collider. One should note that the
   final state used for this observation was semi-leptonic. Despite the
   incomplete reconstruction the backgrounds were manageable. Given the
   enormous rates, the Tevatron is arguably the best place to do B
   physics. This is especially true for states which are not decay
   products of the \Upsilon 4S and are therefore difficult to access with
   an electron-positron B factory. D. Electroweak Physics The hadron
   colliders have for some time contributed to the suite of measurements
   which provide stringent crosschecks of the electroweak model. The
   initial measurements from the CERN SppS observation of the W and Z
   bosons paved the way. The current measurements [21] from the Tevatron
   keep pace in precision with those from LEP and at each new level of
   precision we see ways to constrain the details of the production
   measurements from the data themselves. For example in the recent DO/
   measurement it was found that the constraint from the rapidity
   distribution of the bosons is only marginally weaker than that from the
   parton distribution function measurements from the worlds experiments.
   The current errors are 80-90 MeV per experiment. Already the latter are
   strongly influenced by measurements of the W asymmetry at the Tevatron.
   The constraints from the data themselves will scale with statistics to
   higher integrated luminosity. This means that the current estimates of
   about 40 MeV per channel and per experiment are indeed possible.
   Scaling of W-mass error 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 102 103
   104I L dt (pb-1) \Delta M W (MeV) Run 1A, CDF, DO/, UA2 (preliminary)
   Run 1b, CDF, DO/ (anticipated) Scaling + resolution + systematics FIG.
   11. Expected evolution of the precision of a measurement of the W
   -boson mass at the Tevatron Collider. TABLE IV. Uncertainties in a
   single experiment top mass determination. Uncertainty(GeV) Run I Run II
   Statistical 5.6 1.3 Jet Energy Calibration 4.0 0.4 Gluon ISR/FSR 3.1
   0.7 Detector Noise etc 1.6 0.4 Fit Procedure 1.3 0.3 All Systematic 5.5
   0.9 Total 7.8 1.6 9 This kind of evolution as expressed in an earlier
   study [22] is illustrated in Fig. 11. That study considered
   particularly the effects of the underlying event on the technique which
   uses the transverse mass of the event (lepton plus neutrino) as the
   primary measure of the boson mass. This leads to a relative
   deterioration as the number of interactions per bunch crossing
   increases. What is also shown is the subsequent evolution as we
   decrease the bunch spacing in the machine to 132 nsecs. Fora given
   luminosity this decreases the number of interactions per crossing. We
   are also learning to take advantage of all the measures of the boson
   mass, the lepton transverse momentum, and the neutrino transverse
   momentum. It is gratifying that this projection made some four years
   ago holds good through the 100 pb \Gamma 1 of data from which the
   recent measurements are derived. A very powerful newcomer to precision
   measurements is the top mass. It enters into the electroweak parameters
   through its dominance of the quark loops. From the existing data, the
   3% uncertainty makes the top-quark mass the best known of all quark
   masses. The 5 GeV uncertainty in the top-quark mass is equivalent to
   about 30 MeV uncertainty in the W mass in terms of its its sensitivity
   to the Higgs mass.. Currently the dominant error [23] comes from the
   calibration of the jets. Recently CDF observed the Z ! bb decay.
   Extrapolating to the luminosities and upgraded detectors with silicon
   track triggers to enhance the sensitivity to this channel, a very
   precise calibration of the jet energies becomes possible. This will be
   used in conjunction with the W -boson decays to jets which are present
   in the top signal data themselves. The resulting evolution of a single
   experiment in the lepton-plus-jets channel is illustrated in Table IV.
   An uncertainty of less than 2 GeV appears to be possible. A number of
   other electroweak studies are possible including the comparison of the
   W width as determined by direct and indirect methods and a study of the
   Z asymmetry. The latter may serve either as a determination of sin2 `W
   for the light quarks or another constraint on the parton distribution
   functions. Taken together, the masses of the W boson and the top quark
   lead to constraints on the mass of the Higgs boson either in the
   standard model or in the supersymmetric variants. This is illustrated
   in Fig. 12 where, in the plane of the W mass and the top-quark mass,
   the various measurements including the latest from CDF and DO/ at the
   Tevatron. We can anticipate that these indirect measurements will
   determine the Higgs mass to about 50% of its value. 80.2 80.3 80.4 80.5
   80.6 80.7 150 160 170 180 190 200m t (GeV) M W (GeV) 100 250 500 1000
   Higgs Mass (GeV) CDF MSSM band INDIRECT MW = 80.422 +/- 0.049 GeV LEP2
   DO/ 68% C.L. DIRECT NuTeV FIG. 12. MW versus Mt. 10 E. Physics beyond
   the Standard Model There are as many searches for new physics as can be
   generated by the imagination of physicists. In the search for
   compositeness, structure, higher mass bosons, leptoquarks, the present
   limits are in the few-hundred-GeV range. With 2 fb \Gamma 1 these
   searches will be sensitive close to the 1 TeV range. Indirect searches
   as exemplified by the measurement of the Drell-Yan, lepton pair cross
   section and the dijet mass spectrum, are sensitive, through possible
   contact terms to the 5 TeV range. Dijet mass (GeV) DO/ Preliminary,
   1.07 fb-1 0 500 1000 1500 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
   Events/8 GeV (a) Kinematic cuts Dijet mass (GeV) 0 10 20 30 0 20 40 60
   80 100 120 140 160 180 200 Events/8 GeV (b) Topological cuts + Single
   b-tag W + dijet mass (GeV) 0 20 40 60 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
   Events/16 GeV (c) Topological cuts + Single b-tag FIG. 13. Mass spectra
   expected for technicolor signals for the ssT and the aeT . 1.
   Technicolor A longstanding candidate to explain the origin of
   electroweak symmetry breaking is a new strong interaction, technicolor,
   analogous to QCD. Such a strong interaction would lead to massive
   electroweak bosons in a manner analogous to the way the masses of the
   pion and ae meson are generated by QCD. There are complications with
   the simplest forms of such a theory but variations [24] of the original
   scheme continue to be explored. TABLE V. Mass ranges covered for a 5oe
   discovery in SUSY models. Model SUSY Particle Run I( 0.1 fb\Gamma 1 Run
   II(2.0 fb\Gamma 1 Mass Limit(GeV) Mass Limit(GeV) SUGRA ~O/\Sigma 1 70a
   210 ~g 270b 390 ~t1(! b~O/\Sigma 1 ) 170 GMSB ~O/\Sigma 1 265 ~o/ 120
   a95% CL. b95% CL. 11 The production cross section for the some of the
   states can be quite substantial [25]. Analysis of Monte Carlo
   simulations of technicolor signals using a basic signature of a W ,
   seen through its leptonic decay, along with two jets gives a dijet mass
   spectrum as shown in the upper plot of Fig. 13. Some topological
   requirements are then applied and a b-quark tag is requested. This
   leads to the middle of the three plots. The dijet spectrum clearly
   shows an excess which corresponds to the technipion decaying to two
   b-quark jets. In the bottom plot, the mass of the combined W boson and
   the two-jet system shows a peak over background corresponding to the
   technirho. Once again the importance of b-quark tagging techniques is
   demonstrated. 2. SUSY The mainstream of theoretical thinking with
   respect to the physics of electroweak symmetry breaking and the physics
   above 100 GeV is dominated by those who consider that supersymmetry,
   SUSY, should play a strong role. SUSY comes in may guises but always
   leads to a proliferation of postulated particles differing in spin by
   one half unit with respect to the "standard particles". Thus there is a
   spin-one-half gluino, the partner of the gluon, a spin-one-half
   photino, the partner of the photon and a host of squarks and sleptons.
   The simplest assumption is that these sparticles can only be produced
   in pairs, a restriction that is usually formulated as conservation of a
   quantum number R-parity. Given R-parity conservation there is always a
   stable lightest supersymmetric partner(LSP) which is neutral in most
   theories. This leads to the presence of missing transverse energy as
   the most generic of SUSY indicators. As with technicolor, the use of
   b-quark tagging also can be a useful discriminator against background.
   Since we have not seen supersymmetric partners with the same masses as
   the ordinary particles, SUSY, if it exists must be a broken symmetry.
   The mechanism by which it is broken at very high mass scales
   distinguishes different models. Very commonly considered is the super
   gravity(SUGRA) class. In the last few years, alternatives such as gauge
   mediated models(GMSB) have been prominent. The latter are characterised
   by the gravitino( ~G) being the LSP and cascades of decays such as O/01
   ! fl ~G which generate final states with one or more photons and
   missing transverse energy. As indicated in Table V, the present limits
   for different sparticles range up to a couple of hundred GeV for some
   but around 100 GeV for others. The afficionados of SUSY tend to expect
   that it would appear with sparticle masses in the range below 1 TeV if
   it is to be relevant to the electroweak symmetry breaking problem. The
   recent studies [26], also summarised in Table V suggest that with 2 fb
   \Gamma 1 of integrated luminosity, these ranges can be considerably
   extended to cover a large fraction of the "interesting" region. F. The
   Higgs Boson Without looking beyond the physics of the standard model,
   it is necessary to postulate some mechanism to break the electroweak
   symmetry and to give mass to the W and Z bosons. The simplest thing to
   do is to assume a single complex Higgs field which in turn leads to a
   single neutral Higgs boson. As we have seen earlier the mass of such an
   object is predicted through the radiative corrections to the
   electroweak parameters and with the mass of the top quark and that of
   the W boson measured we should find the Higgs boson at the appropriate
   place. The search for the standard-model Higgs boson is the most widely
   used benchmark for the potential of planned collider experiments.
   Recent studies [27] have put the estimates for the Tevatron Collider
   experiments, DO/ and CDF, on a more solid footing. While gluon-gluon
   fusion has the highest Higgs production cross section, the associated ,
   W H and ZH, production channels offer distinctive experimental
   signatures through the leptonic decays of the bosons and have received
   much attention. The bb decay of the Higgs also adds powerful
   discrimination especially at low masses, below about 130 GeV, where
   that decay dominates. A more thorough study of the channels involving
   b-quark tagging was conducted. Further, the use of the W W decay modes
   in conjunction with the dominant gluon-gluon fusion has been
   reconsidered [28]. The branching fractions for the latter rise
   strongly, see Fig. 14, with increasing Higgs mass and also are
   distinctive experimentally. 12 The combined sensitivity for all
   channels and two experiments is shown in Fig.15. The figure shows the
   required luminosity to obtains a signal at different levels of
   significance, 5 oe, 3 oe, and the 95% exclusion limit, as a function of
   Higgs mass. We see that with both experiments and 30 f b \Gamma 1 of
   luminosity for each experiment the sensitivity extends up to Higgs
   massses of 190 GeV. If the Higgs does not exist in this mass region,
   with 10 f b \Gamma 1 this whole region could be excluded experimentally
   at the 90% C.L. 10 50 100 150 200-4 10-3 10-2 10-1 1.0 Bra nch ing Fra
   ctio n H bb H cc H gg H t t+ - M [GeV]H Bra nch ing Fra ctio n 10 50
   100 150 200-4 10-3 10-2 10-1 1.0 H W W + - H Z Z H g g H Z g M [GeV]H
   FIG. 14. Higgs-boson production cross sections and branching fractions
   for fermions and bosons as a function of Higgs-boson mass. Other
   studies concentrated on the extensions of the Higgs sector, in
   particular the SUSY-Higgs two-doublet model. There are three neutral
   and two charged Higgs states and, depending on the value of the ratio
   of the vacuum expectation values of the two doublets, very strong
   coupling of the Higgs to the b-quark may be expected. Again the r^ole
   of the b-quark tagging is important and similar sensitivities to the
   SUSY Higgs are achieved as in the standard-model-Higgs case. As we
   discussed earlier, an integrated luminosity of 20-30 f b \Gamma 1
   before the startup of the LHC is anticipated. There is a considerable
   challenge for the experiments but even the fierce conditions may be
   mitigated by operating the machine in such a way as to maintain the
   instantaneous luminosity at or less than 5: \Theta 1032cm2sec \Gamma 1.
   It is clear that maximizing the exploitation of the Tevatron Collider
   to search for the Higgs and other new high-mass physics should be one
   of the highest priorities of the U.S. high energy physics program. FIG.
   15. Luminosity required as a function of Higgs mass to achieve
   different levels of sensitivity to the standard-model Higgs boson.From
   the upper curve corresponds to a 5 oe discovery, the middle a 3 oe
   signal and the lower a 95% exclusion limit. These limits require two
   experiments, Bayesian statistics are used to combine the channels and
   include the improved sensitivity which would come from multivariate
   analysis techniques. 13 IV. THE EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM We have seen in
   the above discussion that the physics reach of the accelerator complex
   which we label with its newest component, The Fermilab Main Injector,
   is phenomenal and diverse. Full exploitation of every aspect could
   swallow resources in excess of what appears to be available. The
   attempts to construct a realistic program has so far left the various
   components in states of varying certitude. While some pieces are well
   on their way to completion of construction others remain glints in the
   eyes of the proponents. In order to give a sense of perspective, I have
   chosen to give the briefest of summaries of the status of each of the
   components of the Main Injector physics program. ffl The Main Injector:
   the commissioning of the machine is well advanced; the ancillary
   Recycler storage ring will be completed in the coming months. ffl The
   Tevatron Collider and the CDF and DO/ Detectors: the Tevatron will
   operate in fixed target mode during 1999 and will convert to collider
   operations for early 2000. The upgrades of the two detectors CDF and
   DO/ are in the middle of construction and completion and roll-in is
   expected in 2000. ffl The NuMI Project: the project has approval from
   the appropriate authorities and a baseline for the scope, cost, funding
   and schedule has been approved by a Department of Energy review with
   funds for civil construction allocated. ffl The mini-BooNe Experiment:
   this initial phase of a potentially longer program is an approved
   experiment expected to run in 2002. ffl The Kaon-CP Violation
   experiments: these experiments, labelled, CKM, CPT and KaMI, have
   submitted proposals or letters of intent to the laboratory; research
   and development projects associated with different aspects of them have
   been established. ffl The dedicated collider-B Experiment, BTeV: a
   letter of intent has been submitted and an experimental hall has been
   constructed; a research and development program is under way. ffl A 120
   GeV QCD Program: a number of groups have submitted proposals [29] in
   response to the potential offered by extracted hadron beams from the
   the Main Injector. The primary thrust of such a program would be to
   emphasize QCD studies. Thus far there is no action on these proposals.
   V. CONCLUSIONS The Main Injector enables a phenomenally broad and
   imposing array of physics and we, the field, must be wise in choosing
   which pieces to emphasize. Many physicists are determined to exploit
   the potential of this program. I am very excited to be among those
   physicists. VI. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The talk and this paper could not have
   been produced with out the help many. Included among those people are
   Franco Bedeschi, Ed Blucher, Amber Boehnlein, Greg Bock, Janet Conrad,
   Peter Cooper, Marcel Demarteau, Gene Fisk, Al Goshaw, Paul Grannis,
   Steve Holmes, Zoltan Ligeti, John Marriner, Shekhar Mishra, Meenakshi
   Narain, Adam Para, Ron Ray, Maria Roco, Ken Stanfield, Gordon Thomson,
   Andre Turcot, Harry Weerts, Bruce Winstein, Stan Wojcicki and John
   Womersley who were kind enough to provide input and/or to read a draft
   version of the paper. To them should go the credit for the content, to
   me the blame for errors. This work was supported by the U.S. Department
   of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-76CHO3000. 14 [1] Fermilab Beams
   Div. OperationsDepartment Page,
   http://www-bd.fnal.gov/operations/operations.html [2] Gary Feldman,
   Neutrino Physics, Plenary Review Talk presented at this conference. [3]
   Mark Messier, "Atmospheric Neutrinos at Super-Kamiokande", Paper
   presented at this conference. [4] The MINOS Experiment Technical Design
   Report, NuMI-L-337, April 1998. [5] Janet Conrad, Rapporteur's Talk at
   ICHEP the International Conference on High Energy Physics, ICHEP'98,
   Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, August, 1999. [6] E. Church et al.
   A proposal to measure *_ ! *e oscillations and *_ disappearance at the
   Fermilab Booster, December 7, 1997. [7] Ed. Blucher, CP Violations and
   Rare Decays, Plenary Review Talk presented at this conference. [8] K.
   Pitts, Seminar, Fermilab, February, 1999, CDF/PUB/BOTTOM/CDF/4855, Feb.
   5, 1999,
   http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/physics/new/bottom/cdf4855/cdf4855.html [9]
   Peter Shawhan, Seminar, Fermilab, February 24,
   1999.http://fnphyx-www.fnal.gov/experiments/ktev/ktev.html [10] A.
   Buras, TUM-HEP-255-96, Sep 1996, hep-ph/9609324. [11] A Kaon Physics
   Program at the Fermilab Main Injector, FERMILAB-TM-2032, Ed. P.Cooper,
   November 1997. [12] L. Littenberg, hep-ex/9802014. [13] Charged Kaons
   at the Main Injector: A Proposal for a Precision Measurement of the
   Decay K+L ! ss+** and other Rare K+ Processes at Fermilab Using the
   Main Injector, May 15, 1998. [14] An Expression of Interest to Detect
   and Measure the Direct CP Violating Decay K0L ! ss0** and Other Rare
   Decays at Fermilab Using the Main Injector, September 27, 1997. [15]
   The CP/T Experiment: An Experimental Program to Study CP Violation and
   Search for CPT Violation in the KL \Gamma KS System. [16] The CDF II
   Detector Technical Design Report, FERMILAB-Pub-96/390-E, November 1996.
   [17] The DO/ Upgrade: The Detector and its Physics,
   FERMILAB-Pub-96/xxx-E, July 1996. [18] A. Kulyatsev et al., The BTEV
   Program at Fermilab, Paper #92 submitted to the International
   Conference on High Energy Physics, ICHEP'98, Vancouver, British
   Columbia, Canada, August, 1999; http://www-btev.fnal.gov/btev.html.
   [19] Ting Miao, CDF Collaboration, Fermilab Seminar, February 1999,
   http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/physics/new/bottom/cdf4485/cdf4485.html [20] F.
   Abe et al., CDF Collaboration, Phys. Rev. D 58, 112004 (1998). [21]
   Ashutosh Kotwal, DO/ Collaboration Fermilab Seminar, February 26 1999,
   http://www-d0.fnal.gov/,skulik/Public/wmass/index.html; Young-Kee Kim,
   CDF Cololaboration, Talk to Run II QCD/EW Working Group, March 4 1999,
   http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/physics/ewk/ wmass global.html [22] Future
   ElectroWeak Physics at the Fermilab Tevatron: Report of the tev-2000
   Study Group, FERMILAB-PUB-96/082, Editors D. Amidei and R. Brock. [23]
   A Silicon Track Trigger for the DO/ Experiment in Run II - Further
   Physics Benefit Studies, Addendum to the proposal(P908). January 1999.
   [24] Workshop on New Strong Dynamics for Run II of the Fermilab
   Tevatron, http://www-d0.fnal.gov/,womersle/strongdynamics.html [25]
   Estia Eichten, Kenneth Lane, John Womersley, Phys. Lett. B 405 305
   (1997) [26] Mario Roco Talk prepared for The Hadron Collider Physics
   conference, Mumbai, January, 1999, talk delivered by P.Grannis; Work
   done at the Tevatron Run 2 SUSY/Higgs Workshop, Fermilab, November
   1998.http://fnth37.fnal.gov/susy.html [27] J. Conway, " Higgs Working
   Group Experimental Studies, Summary Talk at the Tevatron Run 2
   SUSY/Higgs Workshop, Fermilab, November
   1998.http://fnth37.fnal.gov/susy.htmlhttp://fnth37.fnal.gov/funnelweb/c
   onway summary/ [28] Tao Han, Andre S. Turcot, Ren-Jie Zhang,
   Fermilab,MADPH-98-1094 November 1998, hep-ph/9812275, 1998. [29]
   Workshop on Fixed Target Physics at the Main Injector, May 1-4, 1997,
   http://www.fnal.gov/projects/numi/workshop/summaries/summaries.html ,
   Strong interactions,
   http://www.fnal.gov/projects/numi/workshop/summaries/strong.txt 15
