http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/ft0225export.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report


    WORLD NEWS - THE AMERICAS: Cox report seeks reforms to favour allies
                               EXPORT CONTROLS

                               Financial Times

   April 25, 2001

   By Edward Alden and Carola Hoyos
   A US congressional report issued yesterday recommends the US reform its
   export controls to allow defence companies to share technology more
   freely with a small group of US allies in Europe.
   The report, by a bipartisan congressional team led by Christopher Cox,
   a House Republican, who was one of the chief critics of the export
   control policies of the Clinton administration, recommends forming a
   "coalition of the willing", ready to adhere to strict supplemental
   multilateral export controls in return for loosened trade restrictions
   among themselves.
   Under the cumbersome system of US export controls currently in place,
   the US risks creating a situation of "Fortress Europe, Fortress
   America", says William Reinsch, a former undersecretary of commerce in
   charge of export controls, who was part of the report's study group.
   Without such a system, US and European defence companies will find it
   increasingly difficult to form joint ventures and develop the joint
   production capabilities needed to improve efficiency, he said.
   Immediate potential partners could include the UK, France, Germany,
   Italy, Sweden and the Netherlands, which have already concluded similar
   agreements among themselves to encourage restructuring in the European
   defence industry.
   Other members could then be added over time.
   The group of countries should also streamline their policies and place
   stricter, identical controls on the most sensitive technologies that
   are exported to countries or companies outside the group.
   European governments and defence companies have become increasingly
   frustrated with the rigidity of US export control rules and have been
   urging changes.
   US defence companies also want closer co-operation with European
   partners in order to provide the Pentagon with the highest quality
   weaponry.
   Mr Cox, who led the study team, was one of the chief critics of the
   export control policies of the Clinton administration.
   A previous investigation he led in 1999 slammed the Democratic
   administration for allowing US missile technology to be transferred to
   China.
   The inquiry prompteda tightening of US export control rules that has
   caused US satellite exports to be sharply curbed.
   Mr Cox's views are seen as a bellwether among Republicans who said that
   easing export controls could allow critical US military technology to
   find its way into the hands of adversaries.
   Congress is attempting this year to rewrite US export control laws
   after almost a decade in which new legislation has been blocked by
   fights between pro-business legislators and national security
   hardliners.
   The recommendations endorse efforts to reform export controls launched
   under the Clinton administration.
