http://archive.nlm.nih.gov/proj/dxpnet/nhanes/nhanes.php

   Skip navigation
   National Library of Medicine, HTTP://www.nlm.nih.gov Communications
   Engineering Branch Title Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical
   Communications, HTTP://www.lhncbc.nlm.nih.gov/

   CEB Home
   Image Processing
   CEB Projects
   Repositories
   Publications
   NHANES
   Survey Documents
   X-rays
   Site Map

NHANES Collateral Data/Images

   The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES),
   conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for
   Disease Control (NCHS/CDC), is designed to assess the health and
   nutritional status of adults and children in the United States through
   interviews and direct physical examinations.

   As part of the study of arthritis and musculosketal conditions, NHANES
   II (1976-80) included radiographs of the cervical and lumbar spine
   (lateral views) for sample persons ages 25-74 years. There are
   approximately 17,500 films that represent a unique resource for
   research on conditions affecting the cervical and lumbar spine. The
   arthritis component of NHANES III, which began in 1988 and will
   continue until September 1994, includes radiographs of the hands and
   wrists and of the knees for sample persons ages 60 years and above.
   There will be approximately 10,400 films total from NHANES III.

   The NHANES II radiographs can be linked to an extensive medical
   questionnaire on back and neck problems and to a pysical examination
   that emphasizes the back and neck. Also available is a wealth of other
   questionnaire, examination, and laboratory data for the same
   individuals. The NHANES III radiographs can be linked to a medical
   history questionnaire that includes information required for the
   diagnostic criteria for osteoarthritis and rheuatoid arthritis, a
   physical exam that emphasizes the hands and knees, serum rheumatoid
   factor measurements, and other questionnaire, examinations, and
   laboratory data.

   The radiographs from both NHANES II and NHANES III are being converted
   to a digital form that can be stored on computer readable erasable
   optical disks. With appropriate hardware and software, the digitized
   radiographs can be used to view images on high-resolution monitors with
   quality comparable to analog film. Viewing software will allow users to
   read/interpret/analyze the images. The digitization of the film will
   provide permanent reproducible storage for the radiographs in digital
   format for NHANES II and NHANES III.

   Initially, the data will be read under the auspices of the National
   Institute of Arthritis, Musculoskeletal, and Skin Disorders (NIAMS).
   Several radiologists will be under contract to read each image
   according to a standardized format with the readings archived in the
   LHNCBC/CEB Electronic X-ray Archive. After this, the images will be
   made available to the public along with other NHANES II collateral
   data. Another goal of this work is to create radiological atlas' for
   the purpose of training physicians and students.

Decimated Images

   WARNING:By clicking on either the cervical or lumbar spine thumbnail
   image you will download an html document consisting of 12 in-lined
   xrays. These xrays will all be links to higher resolution versions of
   these images. To view a higher resolution version of the thumbnail
   image click on the desired thumbnail. Our httpd server will send the
   larger image out over the Internet. Please make sure that your WWW
   viewer, Mosaic for example, has been setup to automatically view the
   image (gif file format) with an appropriate image viewer. On UNIX
   machines this may require modifications to your ".mailcap" file.

            Cervical image
            Cervical images Lumbar spine image
                            Lumbar spine images X-ray Data Sheet

       Return to top of page

   CEB Home | Image Processing | CEB Projects | Repositories
   Publications | NHANES | Site Map | NLM Accessibility | Need a plug-in?

   URL: http://archive.nlm.nih.gov/proj/dxpnet/nhanes/nhanes.php
   Updated January 18, 2002
   Send questions or comments about this site to
   webmaster@archive.nlm.nih.gov
