http://www.digitalearth.gov/StateOfTheInitiative.doc

   State of the Digital Earth Initiative The goals of Digital Earth focus
   on improved access to terrestrial information by decision-makers,
   scientists and the public; establishment of a standardized framework
   within which government data can be published; and fostering of a new,
   self-sustaining market for geo-referenced information, services and
   software Over the past year, the National Digital Earth Initiative has
   made notable progress in several critical areas: the organizational
   structure of Digital Earth has been defined, technology issues are
   being addressed, documents and studies are ongoing, and awareness has
   been promoted at public, private and international levels. Organization
   Functionally, the effort has progressed and continues to evolve through
   regular Federal and partnership meetings, a senior policy level Digital
   Earth Steering Committee (DESC), the Interagency Digital Earth
   Workgroup (IDEW), and the Digital Earth Community Meeting (DECM). The
   DESC was established to enable a collaborative of senior
   representatives of government organizations to develop and coordinate
   strategic visioning and planning, and policy and guidelines formulation
   for the initiative. In April 2000 the White House hosted the first
   meeting of the DESC with an attendance of some 35 individuals
   representing over 20 organizations. The next DESC meeting is scheduled
   for the winter. Also, at the senior policy level, a recommendation was
   presented to the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) to align the
   FGDC and the DESC. Unanimous votes at the March 2000 FGDC and April
   2000 DESC meetings initiated this alignment that is now being defined.
   The IDEW has met since 1998 and was the ad-hoc body that defined the
   present structure. Meetings have been hosted by NASA, NOAA, USGS,
   USACE, EPA, USDA and NSF, and the IDEW has been key in fostering a
   collaborative effort among the federal agencies. IDEW members have
   facilitated or initiated the Digital Earth Reference Model (DERM), the
   Web Mapping Testbed, the Digital Earth Alpha Version, the National
   Academy of Sciences (NAS) study, the Big Picture White Paper and the
   forthcoming Digital Earth Strategy, all of which are discussed below.
   Meetings of the DECM are open to public attendance. It has been hosted
   in turn by the United States Geological Survey, the University of
   California at Santa Barbara, the Oracle Corporation, and the National
   Geographic Society. The next meeting will be hosted in Pennsylvania
   within a State and Local government environment. Routine attendance has
   been 70-90 individuals representing Government (Federal, state and
   local) and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs): industry, media,
   academia, libraries. The DECM is envisioned to be an independent,
   self-maintaining organization within the NGOs. It is expected to foster
   the evolution of Digital Earth and align its activities with those of
   the government. The NGOs have worked with the IDEW group on the DERM,
   the Digital Earth Alpha Version, and the Digital Earth Strategy.
   Technology Digital Earth participants have been instrumental in
   assisting or enabling several critical technology elements required for
   success of the program. These include the Web Mapping Testbed (WMT),
   the Digital Earth Alpha Version (DEAV), and the Digital Earth Reference
   Model (DERM). In addition, specific implementations of Digital Earth
   clients and servers are growing in number. The OpenGIS Consortium (OGC)
   initiated WMT as a collaboration between government and industry to
   develop open standards for geospatial information access, display and
   processing. Various Federal agencies have provided resources to sponsor
   WMT and personnel to participate, while corporate participants have
   more than matched those contributions with their own in-kind efforts.
   WMT phase 1 issued the first core standard, which was submitted to ISO
   and has been adopted by Digital Earth, and phase 2 now in progress
   broadens and refines that work. The concept of a DEAV is that of
   building a working prototype of Digital Earth that is based on existing
   technology and is publicly usable even if it does not attain the
   grander vision for the future. In July 2000 the 1st DEAV Workshop was
   held near Washington DC and brought together over 100 individuals from
   the public and private sector to focus on what the Alpha Version would
   be and how to enable it. A second workshop is planned for late fall to
   continue detailing the content of the Alpha Version and the process for
   its demonstration. The DERM is the result of public and private efforts
   to define the standards and architecture guidelines of Digital Earth.
   Last year the first public draft version of the DERM was issued. A new
   review of the document was recently begun to incorporate the evolution
   of the Digital Earth since that time; the new version of the DERM is
   expected this winter. Over twenty groups worldwide have established Web
   Map Servers that comply with the Digital Earth's standards, serving
   data ranging from global topography and bathymetry to Berlin city
   streets. Other groups are known to have servers in the works, many with
   direct consultation from the Digital Earth Initiative. Viewer Clients,
   ranging from simple web-based applications to desktop GIS software to
   3-D virtual reality displays are being developed or modified to work
   with these standards. The situation now is like that of the World Wide
   Web in 1992, when there were two dozen web servers established by
   people who recognized the enormous potential of the technology. Studies
   and Documents In September a NAS study was initiated to provide a
   workshop to explore the IT challenges posed by the DE concept. This
   will include a workshop in the spring of 2001 to review the results of
   the study to date and provide input for completion of the effort. The
   Digital Earth White Paper generated by the IDEW group was intended to
   capture the history of Digital Earth and the future vision. More
   recently, the Big Picture White Paper was written to define the
   relation of Digital Earth and several associated activities such as the
   FGDC and the National and Global Spatial Data Infrastructures (NSDI and
   GSDI). Finally, a new effort has been initiated to generate a Digital
   Earth Strategy. The Digital Earth White Paper, Big Picture White Paper,
   and the results of the NAS study will form excellent foundations for
   this document. Global and Local Perspectives Beyond the efforts of the
   United States, there have been several notable international
   activities. The Chinese hosted the 1st International Symposium on
   Digital Earth (ISDE) in the winter of 1999 and announced the commitment
   of significant funds to a Chinese Digital Earth. The Canadians will be
   hosting the 2nd ISDE in June 2001. The International Society of
   Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS) adopted a resolution in July
   2000 to focus on the Digital Earth effort until their next congress in
   2004. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is currently
   arranging for an international meeting in March to discuss a structure
   for a Global Digital Earth (GDE). The United States has been perceived
   as the current world leader for Digital Earth; countries (e.g., Israel
   and Canada) and organizations (e.g., a European consortium) have
   approached us to partner on Digital Earth activities. Within the United
   States there is a drive to increase the awareness of Digital Earth at
   the community level. This includes organizations like the National
   States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC) and the National
   Association of Counties (NACo). As mentioned above, a state government
   will host the next DECM. For additional information please contact:
   Thomas S. Taylor Digital Earth Office NASA/GSFC Greenbelt, MD 20771
   (301) 286-4200
