http://www.csm.ca.gov/privacy.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          CSM Home Page

                          About CSM
                            CSM History
                            CSM Members

                          What's New
                            Current Hearing
                            For Public Comment
                            Pre-Hearing
                            Rulemaking
                            Special Notices
                           Hearing Transcripts
                           Special Education
                           Hearing/Minutes

                          California Law
                           California Constitution
                           Government Code
                           Regulations

                          Legislation
                           Claims Bill
                           Other Bills

                          Reports to Legislature
                           Approved Mandates
                           Denied Mandates
                           Related Links



   Commission on State Mandates



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Privacy Policy

   Disclaimer of Liability:

   The Commission on State Mandates, the Commission on State Mandates Home
   Page, hereafter referred to collectively as the "Commission on State
   Mandates Home Page," or its contributors shall not be held liable for
   any improper or incorrect use of the information described and/or
   contained herein. The Commission on State Mandates Home Page assumes no
   responsibility for anyone's use of the information. In no event shall
   the Commission on State Mandates Home Page or its contributors be
   liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or
   consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement or
   substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or
   business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability,
   whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or
   otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this system, even if
   advised of the possibility of such damage. This disclaimer of liability
   applies to any damages or injury, including but not limited to those
   caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption,
   deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, computer virus,
   communication line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access
   to, alteration of, or use of record, whether for breach of contract,
   tortious behavior, negligence or under any other cause of action.


   Indemnification:

   User agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Commission on
   State Mandates Home Page, its contributors, any entity jointly created
   by them, their respective affiliates and their respective directors,
   officers, employees, and agents from and against all claims and
   expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising out of the use of the
   on-line service by user or user's account.


   Disclaimer of Warranties/Accuracy of Data:

   Although the data found using the Commission on State Mandates Home
   Page access systems have been produced and processed from sources
   believed to be reliable, no warranty expressed or implied is made
   regarding accuracy, adequacy, completeness, legality, reliability or
   usefulness of any information. This disclaimer applies to both isolated
   and aggregate uses of the information. The Commission on State Mandates
   Home Page provides this information on an "as is" basis. All warranties
   of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the
   implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
   purpose, freedom from contamination by computer viruses and
   non-infringement of proprietary rights ARE DISCLAIMED. Changes may be
   periodically added to the information herein; these changes may or may
   not be incorporated in any new version of the publication. If you
   obtained information from the Commission on State Mandates Home Page
   from a source other than the Commission on State Mandates Home Page, be
   aware that electronic data can be altered subsequent to original
   distribution. Data can also quickly become out-of-date. It is
   recommended that careful attention be paid to the contents of any
   metadata associated with a file, and that the originator of the data or
   information be contacted with any questions regarding appropriate use.
   If you find any errors or omissions, we encourage you to report them to
   the Commission on State Mandates Webmaster (csminfo@csm.ca.gov).


   Disclaimer of Endorsement:

   The Commission on State Mandates Home Page is a distributor of content
   sometimes supplied by third parties and users. Any opinions, advice,
   statements, services, offers, or other information or content expressed
   or made available by third parties, including information providers,
   users, or others, are those of the respective author(s) or
   distributor(s) and do not necessarily state or reflect those of the
   Commission on State Mandates Home Page.

   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
   constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the
   Commission on State Mandates Home Page, and such reference shall not be
   used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.


   Disclaimer of Hypertext Links:

   The Commission on State Mandates Home Page is not responsible for the
   contents of any off-site pages referenced. The user specifically
   acknowledges that neither the Commission on State Mandates Home Page
   nor its contributors is liable for the defamatory, offensive, or
   illegal conduct of other users, links, or third parties and that the
   risk of injury from the foregoing rests entirely with the user.

   Links from the Commission on State Mandates Home Page on the World Wide
   Web to other sites do not constitute an endorsement from the Commission
   on State Mandates Home Page. These links are provided as an information
   service only. It is the responsibility of the web surfer to evaluate
   the content and usefulness of information obtained from other sites.


   Disclaimer of Duty to Provide Unrestricted Free Access:

   Due to the dynamic nature of the Internet, and/or the uncertainty of
   adequate state funding to support the operations of the Commission on
   State Mandates Home Page, resources that are free and publicly
   available one day may require a fee or restrict access the next, and
   the location of items may change as menus, home pages, and files are
   reorganized. User expressly agrees that use of the Commission on State
   Mandates Home Page is at the user's sole risk. Neither the Commission
   on State Mandates Home Page nor any entity jointly created by it, each
   of its affiliates nor any of its respective employees, agency, third
   party content providers or licenser warrant that the service will be
   uninterrupted or error free.


   Information Provided by You is Non-Confidential:

   Any information provided by you to the Commission on State Mandates
   Home Page, including but not limited to feedback, data, questions,
   comments, suggestions, or the like, shall be deemed to be
   non-confidential; the Commission on State Mandates Home Page shall have
   no obligation of any kind with respect to such information and shall be
   free to reproduce, use, disclose, and distribute the information to
   others without limitation.


   Choice of Law:

   Construction of the disclaimers above and resolution of disputes
   thereof are governed by the laws of the State of California.


                             Back to Top of Page
                          Created February 28, 2001
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
