http://www.eren.nrel.gov/EE/power.html

   Skip Header Navigation and Go to Power Search and Resources

   Power
   Navigation

   _________________
   Search

   Search   Search Options
   Skip Power Organizations and Resources Navigational Links
   Power Organizations and Resources
   U.S. Department of Energy Resources
   U.S. Federal Government Resources
   U.S. State and Local Resources
   Trade Associations
   U.S. Universities and Research Institutes
   International Organizations
   Discussion Groups
   Newsletters
   Power Products
   Power Topics

   Many power companies have programs that encourage their customers to
   invest in energy efficiency products that lower consumer energy bills,
   delay the need for new electrical generation capacity, and reduce the
   emission of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. Technologies that
   maximize the efficient generation, transmission, and storage of energy
   are fundamental to such programs. Renewable electricity generating
   technologies also play a major role in many programs and are discussed
   separately under the solar, geothermal, bioenergy, ocean, wind,
   hydropower, and hydrogen headings on EREN.

   More basic information about energy efficiency in the power industry is
   also available.

   Technologies
   Superconductivity
   Superconducting materials have the ability to conduct electrical
   current with no resistance and extremely low energy losses. Their
   capacity to efficiently handle large amounts of current can be applied
   to electric devices and to electricity transmission.

   Energy Storage
   Energy storage can improve the efficiency and reliability of the
   electric utility system by reducing the requirements for spinning
   reserves to meet peak power demands, making better use of efficient
   baseload generation, and allowing greater use of intermittent renewable
   energy technologies. Energy storage technologies include utility
   battery storage, flywheel storage, superconducting magnetic energy
   storage, compressed air energy storage, pumped hydropower, and
   supercapacitors.

   Issues
   Demand-Side Management (DSM)
   DSM refers to actions taken on the customer's side of the meter to
   change the amount or timing of energy consumption. Utility DSM programs
   offer a variety of measures that can reduce energy consumption and
   consumer energy expenses.

   Distributed Generation
   Small, modular electricity generators sited close to the customer load
   can enable utilities to defer or eliminate costly investments in
   transmission and distribution system upgrades, and provide customers
   with more reliable energy supplies and a cleaner environment.

   Electricity Industry Restructuring
   Utility deregulation has the potential to bring greater customer choice
   among energy products and suppliers. Electricity rates could also drop,
   as the price of energy will be determined less by federal and state
   regulations and more by energy supply and demand.

   Electricity Reliability
   A stable and reliable electricity grid is the backbone of modern
   society. With the electricity industry being restructured, additional
   demands are being placed on the grid, making it even more important to
   maintain reliability standards.

                    Skip Footer Navigation to End of Page

   Ask an Energy Expert  |   Search  |   Webmaster  |   Security & Privacy
                           Notices  |   EREN Home
