http://allen.senate.gov/PressOffice/AllenHelpsIntroduceLivingMemorialsBill.htm


                             [USEMAP:head2.jpg]


   For Release: Tuesday, October 16, 2001
   Contact: Matt Raymond
   (202) 224-4121

      Senator George Allen Helps Introduce Bill To Create Service-Based
                   "Living Memorials" to Sept. 11 Victims


   [USAACT-S.jpg]

   Senator Allen joins his colleagues Oct. 16 to introduce the "USA Act"

   WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator George Allen (R-Va.) today joined several
   of his colleagues including lead sponsor Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) in
   introducing the "Unity in the Spirit of America (USA) Act" to help
   create "living memorials" to the victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
   attacks.
   The legislation directs the Corporation for National Service and the
   Points of Light Foundation to coordinate community-service projects
   across the nation, one each in the names of the thousands of
   defenseless men, women and children who died in the Sept. 11 attacks.

      In a news conference announcing the bill, Senator Allen said the
   legislation will be yet another step toward "healing the wounds to the
                              American family."

     "It is my desire someday, perhaps, to walk in a park, see a Little
   League baseball field, a recreation center or a community computer lab
   named after one of the Virginia victims," Senator Allen said. "Or maybe
   to see children learn to read or to have a mentor in a service project
                      launched in the name of a victim.

   "It will warm our heart, and the hearts of the entire American family,
              to see these living memorials come to fruition."

       Senator Allen said at least 90 Virginians or people with strong
      Virginia ties died Sept. 11 either in the World Trade Center, the
      Pentagon or in hijacked airliners, although the number is likely
                                   higher.

   "Our American family has suffered a wound," Senator Allen said. "In our
    suffering, we are unified. In our sorrow, we are strengthened. In our
                   loss, we find a new sense of purpose."

                                     ###

                       Office of Senator George Allen
                  Russell Senate Office Building, Room 204
                           Washington, D.C. 20510
                            Phone: (202) 224-4024
                             Fax: (202) 224-5432
                                Send us email
