http://dcb.larc.nasa.gov/Introduction/models.html



  Introduction of Modeling of Aerospace Vehicles for Flight Dynamic Studies

   Many of the early attempts at powered flight failed because, among
   other reasons, basic stability and control of the vehicle was
   inadequate. Central to the astounding progress in this field (initial
   powered human flight to lunar exploration in 66 years) has been the
   development and application of the stability and control technologies.

   In modern aerospace vehicle development, a central feature of any
   project is the engineering simulation model of the flight dynamics of
   the vehicle. This model is a mathematical representation of the
   steady-state performance and dynamic response that is expected of the
   proposed vehicle. This math model allows the stability and control
   engineer to develop control laws to allow a human pilot (and
   increasingly an autopilot) to maneuver the vehicle to launch, perform
   its mission, and (if not an expendable weapon or probe) recover safely
   for re-use. The math model also forms the basis for simulators used to
   train a pilot in the skills needed to operate the vehicle safely and
   effectively.

   This brief article is intended to explain to a novice student how these
   math models are created and used.

  Contents

     Modeling of aerospace systems
     Sources of data
     Modeling languages
     Uses and types of models
     Real-time, piloted simulation models
     Summary
     References
     Bibliography

  Modeling of aerospace systems

   To be able to predict the resulting motion of any vehicle (whether
   automobile, boat, skateboard, or Space Shuttle) it is necessary to
   understand the physics of how forces cause objects to move. This field
   of study is called dynamics and is a college-level course in most
   engineering curricula. (Dynamics follows a similar course, statics,
   that examines how objects, especially structures, transmit loads and
   forces through structural elements.)

   Using basic equations from dynamics, mathematical equations are written
   that describe how the vehicle will move in response to forces that are
   applied to the vehicle. For example, it is pretty easy to describe how
   a rocket will accelerate when a constant thrust is provided by the
   rocket's engine. More difficult is to describe and predict how the
   sloshing of fuel in the rocket's fuel tank will cause the rocket's
   structure to vibrate or throw the rocket off-course. Another type of
   modeling problem would be to understand and predict, in a mathematical
   equation, how an aircraft will respond to hitting an updraft in the
   atmosphere, or how the aircraft will respond to the deflection of
   various control surfaces at different airspeeds.

   These equations are usually in the form of differential equations, in
   which the rate of change of some quantity is described as being
   dependent upon other quantities and their rates of change.

   The set of mathematical equations that describe these motions are
   collectively called a math model or simulation model of the vehicle.
   These equations can range in complexity from a single equation on an
   engineer's workpad to a complex set of software routines. The more
   complex vehicle models are, for convenience, broken down into subsystem
   models that deal with different sets of forces:

   An atmospheric subsystem model, which is usually reused by many
   different vehicle models, describes how the Earth's (or other planet's)
   atmosphere behaves. The atmosphere has several properties that change
   with altitude such as pressure, temperature, and how fast sound travels
   through the air (speed of sound); these in turn have a quite important
   effect on how a vehicle traveling through the atmosphere will behave.

   An aerodynamic subsystem model describes how the vehicle will respond
   to forces caused by motion of the vehicle through the atmosphere, and
   predicts the effects of each different control surface (such as the
   flaps, rudders, ailerons, etc.) upon the motion of the vehicle. While
   spacecraft operate primarily in the absence of an atmosphere, they
   usually have to fly through the atmosphere of the Earth (or another
   planet) during launch or landing (if the mission of the spacecraft
   includes landing). Thus, most aerospace vehicle math models include an
   aerodynamic subsystem model.

   A propulsion subsystem model describes how any motors or engines will
   behave and what forces will act on the vehicle to which they are
   attached.

   A landing gear subsystem model is required when the vehicle is in
   contact with the ground in order to model how the ground reaction
   forces are created and how they affect the motion of the vehicle.

   An inertial properties subsystem model provides details about how the
   mass and inertia of the vehicle might change with time. For simple
   vehicles (such as skateboards) the mass properties (weight, moments of
   inertia) don't change, but any fuel-carrying vehicle will have varying
   mass properties. If the circumstances require, the 'inertia model' will
   include such dynamic elements as fuel slosh, landing gear movement, and
   in a highly-detailed model, take into account the motion of control
   surfaces.

   Some vehicles are relatively flexible, requiring the development of a
   flexible structure subsystem model to account for motion of various
   parts of the vehicle in relation to other parts. Airships and other
   long, slender vehicles made of lightweight materials will require some
   attention to this aspect of modeling.

   Finally, any electrical, mechanical, or electronic system that assists
   the pilot in moving the control surfaces has to be described
   mathematically. This includes the springiness of control cables in a
   light airplane, the hydraulic actuators of older commercial transports,
   and the 'fly-by-wire' flight control systems of tactical aircraft and
   newer transports (and all spacecraft).

  Sources of data

   The modeler bases the subsystem models on various pieces of
   information. Aerodynamic models are often the most complex models and
   are usually based on wind-tunnel data, in which the forces and moments
   (moments are rotary forces) exerted on a scaled model are measured at
   various speeds, flow angles, and with combinations of control surface
   deflections, until enough data is available to predict the forces and
   moments that will act on the full-scale vehicle. Increasingly more data
   is being added by using a technology called Computational Fluid
   Mechanics (CFD) in which the same forces and moments are predicted in a
   computer program, using the geometry (shape) of the vehicle in a
   virtual wind tunnel.

   The resulting aerodynamic subsystem model will predict what the forces
   and moments would be as a result of any combination of control surface
   deflections, thrust settings, and flight conditions.

   Other subsystem models can be equally complex, depending on the type of
   vehicle and the fidelity required of the model. Propulsion models can
   be simple thrust and moment estimates or include the calculation of
   many internal engine states (such as flow rates, pressures, and
   temperatures in several stages of a turbine engine or rocket fuel
   turbopumps). Rotorcraft models include models of the rotor dynamics;
   propeller models are needed for propeller-driven aircraft. Landing gear
   models often use data obtained from landing gear drop tests and
   friction measurements from specialized testing equipment. Inertial
   models are usually generated from adding up individual component
   weights and locations; only in rare cases do full-scale aircraft get
   moments of inertia (rotational inertia) measured directly.

   Models of flight control systems are usually based on specifications
   for the hardware and software components involved in the control
   system; often the flight control software itself is included in the
   control subsystem model.

  Modeling languages

   Aerospace vehicle mathematical models are written in a variety of
   software languages; early models were actually made from analog
   electronics (thus the 'analog computer') that contained no software;
   the electronic components such as resistors, capacitors and amplifiers
   represented the differential equations that describe the motion of the
   vehicle.

   Since the 1950s, FORTRAN (for FORmula TRANslater) has been the
   principal programming language used to write flight dynamic models. Its
   almost universal application for science applications has been
   gradually reduced by more modern software languages; however, the bulk
   of vehicle simulations are still written in FORTRAN [1].

   In addition to general purpose languages, such as FORTRAN, BASIC, C,
   C++, and Ada, there exist specialized languages for differential
   equation solution. Also used are specialized software environments for
   describing mathematical equations (Mathematica, MAPLE, MATLAB, xMath,
   and others) as well as allowing construction of block diagrams of
   dynamic systems (xMath's SystemBuild and MATLAB's Simulink).

   The choice of programming language is dictated by the purpose of the
   math model and familiarity with the programming tool.

  Uses and types of models

   An aerospace vehicle flight dynamics model can take many forms
   depending on the purpose of the model.

   For design work, for example in developing an control law for the
   vehicle, often the model is in the form of a 'linearized model'. In
   this form, the dynamics of the vehicle (technically, the perturbations
   of the vehicle's motion from a specified steady-state condition) can be
   represented by a set of matrices or Laplace-domain transfer functions.

   Since these linear models can be generated from the complete,
   non-linear math model (but not vice-versa) often the complete model is
   created first and then linearized for investigation of specific flight
   conditions. Usually these high-fidelity, complex simulation models are
   intended to be run in 'batch' mode, or not in real time where the model
   maneuvers at the same rate it would in actual flight. Real-time models
   are used exclusively for simulation studies involving human or flight
   hardware 'in-the-loop.'

  Real-time, piloted simulation models

   A specialized form of a complete non-linear model is usually required
   if the model is to serve as a real-time simulation model (by
   'real-time' it is implied that the simulation will be piloted). [Note -
   with the increasing computational speed of newer computers, less
   specialization is required to solve the differential equations of the
   model fast enough to serve as a piloted simulation model.]
   Traditionally, each research organization that makes use of an in-house
   flight simulator facility has developed customized simulation source
   code in a variety of languages; these are functionally similar but
   surprisingly non-compatible requiring modifications to a mathematical
   model when transferred from one organization to another.

   It is traditional to generate a set of check cases, composed of 'trim'
   values and dynamic time history recordings of key parameters, to
   guarantee proper reimplementation if a simulation model is moved from
   one type of computer to another.

  Summary

   The development of a mathematical description of the dynamics of a
   flight vehicle is central to any development project. Development of
   flight dynamic models require information from many engineering
   disciplines and often specialized programming languages.

  References

   [1] Jackson, E. Bruce: Results of a Flight Simulation Software Methods
   Survey, AIAA Paper No. 95-3414, August 1995. Presented at the AIAA
   Flight Simulation Technologies Conference, Baltimore, MD, August 7-9,
   1995.

  Bibliography

   General approach to simulation modeling, with a non-linear F-16
   aircraft example:

   Stevens, Brian L. and Lewis, Frank L.: Aircraft Simulation and Control.
   John Wiley & Sons, 1992. ISBN 0-417-61397-5

   Modeling of dynamic systems:

   Cannon, Robert H.: Dynamics of Physical Systems. McGraw-Hill, 1967.
   ISBM 07-009754-2

   Modeling of aircraft dynamics:

   McRuer, Duane; Ashkenas, Irving; and Graham, Dunstan: Aircraft Dynamics
   and Automatic Control. Princeton University Press, 1973. ISBN
   0-691-08083-6

   Equations of motion:

   Gainer, Thomas G. and Hoffman, Sherwood: Summary of Transformation
   Equations and Equations of Motion used in Free-Flight and Wind-Tunnel
   Data Reduction and Analysis. NASA SP-3070, 1972

   Etkin, Bernard: Dynamics of Atmospheric Flight. John Wiley & Sons,
   1972. ISBN 0-471-24620-4

   Martin R. Waszak, Carey S. Buttrill and David K. Schmidt:Modeling and
   Model Simplification of Aeroelastic Vehicles: An Overview, NASA
   TM-107691, September 1992

   Aerospace simulation software:

   Jackson, E. Bruce: Manual for a Workstation-Based Generic Flight
   Simulation Program (LaRCsim) Version 1.4, NASA TM-110164, May 1995

   Flightgear, a collaborative freeware product, is available at
   www.flightgear.org

   Flight vehicle models:

   Jackson, E. Bruce; Cruz, Christopher I.; and Ragsdale, W. A.: Real-Time
   Simulation Model of the HL-20 Lifting Body, NASA TM-107580, July 1992.

    Top
