http://master.nsbf.nasa.gov/mission1.html

               The NSBF Mission, History, and Accomplishments

   CAPTION: Other countries the NSBF has flown experiments for:

                               [australC.gif]
                           Australia [brazilC.gif]
                            Brazil [canadaf2.gif]
                            Canada [denmarkC.gif]
                           Denmark [germanyf2.gif]
                           Germany [greatbrf2.gif]
                                   England
                                [italyf2.gif]
                             Italy [japanC.gif]
                            Japan [new_zeaC.gif]
                          New Zealand [norwayC.gif]
                            Norway [russiaC.gif]
                             Russia [sweden.gif]
                                   Sweden

               The NSBF has the following three-fold mission:

    1. Plan and develop facilities and provide operations service to meet
       the approved ballooning requirements of the scientific community.
    2. Perform the necessary research and development to meet future
       scientific ballooning requirements.
    3. Provide consulting services in the field of scientific ballooning.

  History:

   The NSBF was established in Boulder, Colorado in 1961 under the
   auspices of the National Science Foundation. The facility was moved to
   Palestine, Texas in 1963 and designated as the National Scientific
   Balloon Facility in January 1973.

   Starting in August 1973, a new launch area was constructed. A 1000 foot
   diameter paved circle for the launch vehicle with a 500 foot radius
   extension for balloon layout provided twice the useful area of the old
   pad and greater flexibility in balloon layout. The new launch area
   provided significant improvement in capability. First, two launch areas
   permit simultaneous launches and better utilization of good weather
   during periods of light stratospheric winds. Secondly, the greater area
   enables the launching of larger balloons.

   In 1982, sponsorship of the NSBF was transferred from the National
   Science Foundation to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   (NASA) and the NSBF became a separate entity under the University
   Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR).

   In October, 1987, the NASA contract to operate the NSBF was awarded to
   the Physical Science Laboratory under the auspices of New Mexico State
   University located in Las Cruces, New Mexico. The contract is
   administered by Goddard Space Flight Center's (GSFC) Wallops Flight
   Facility.

  Accomplishments:

   The Facility provides complete balloon operations services and
   engineering support to the United States and foreign scientific
   communities. The operations services include inflation, launching of
   the balloon, tracking and recovery of the payload, and telecommand and
   data retrieval with reliable electronics systems. Some of the areas of
   engineering support are design of balloon systems, research in balloon
   materials, electronics design, gondola design and thermal analysis.
   Also included are power system design, instrumentation design and
   integration, and recovery system design.

   In over 25 years of operation, the Facility has launched more than 1700
   balloons for 35 universities, 23 other research agencies, and 33
   foreign groups. During this span of years there has been a dramatic
   increase in sophistication of experiments and demands for service. This
   can best be shown by comparisons of the growth in payload weight,
   balloon size, and the amount of electronic support provided between
   1963 and 1988. The average payload increased from 407 pounds in 1964 to
   more than 3000 pounds in 1988. Average balloon volume has increased
   from 2.8 million cubic feet (MCF) in 1964 to over 20.0 MCF in 1988.
   Today, payloads weighing 5000 pounds are quite common and balloons of
   20 to 30 MCF are flown routinely.

   The NSBF has launched six ELBBO superpressure balloons (including the
   longest balloon flight in our history lasting over 4 months) for
   Professor Bob Holzworth of the Atmospheric Electrodynamics at the
   University of Washington.

  Some types of research for which balloons are used are:

   Float Pic Spool Release Pic
     * Cosmic Ray studies
     * Gamma Ray and X-Ray Astronomy
     * Optical and Ultra-Violet Astronomy
     * Infrared Astronomy
     * Atmospheric Sciences
     * Magnetospherics
     * Micrometeorite Particles

   In addition to the Palestine operation, the NSBF conducts scientific
   ballooning operations from various remote sites in the U.S. and several
   foreign countries. The Facility is recognized on the international
   level as being one of the most advanced organizations of its type in
   the world.

                        US Flag World icon Texas Flag
