http://www.uscourts.gov/UFC99.pdf

   Understanding the Federal Courts The Constitution and the Federal
   Judiciary The Federal Courts in American Government The Federal Courts
   and Congress The Federal Courts and the Executive Branch The Federal
   Courts and the Public Structure of the Federal Courts Trial Courts
   Appellate Courts United States Supreme Court The Jurisdiction of the
   Federal Courts United States Judges Appointment and Compensation
   Judicial Salaries (separate document) Judicial Ethics Senior and
   Recalled Judges The Judicial Process in Brief An Adversarial System
   Fees and Cost of Litigation Procedural Rules for Conducting Litigation
   Civil Cases Criminal Cases Jury Service Bankruptcy Cases The Appeals
   Process Federal Judicial Administration Individual Courts Circuit
   Judicial Councils The Judicial Conference of the U.S. and National
   Administration Commonly Asked Questions About the Federal Judicial
   Process Common Legal Terms Directories U.S. District Courts U.S. Courts
   of Appeals 1 The Constitution and U.S. Constitution the Federal
   Judiciary Article III The judicial power of the Article III of the
   United States Constitution establishes the judicial branch as one of
   the three separate and distinct branches of the federal government. The
   other two are United States shall be vested the legislative and
   executive branches. in one supreme Court, and The federal courts often
   are called the guardians of the Constitution because their in such
   inferior Courts as the rulings protect rights and liberties guaranteed
   by the Constitution. Through fair and impartial judgments, the federal
   courts interpret and apply the law to resolve disputes. Congress may
   from time to The courts do not make the laws. That is the
   responsibility of Congress. Nor do the time ordain and establish. The
   courts have the power to enforce the laws. That is the role of the
   President and the Judges, both of the supreme many executive branch
   departments and agencies. and inferior Courts, shall hold The Founding
   Fathers of the nation considered an independent federal judiciary es-
   sential to ensure fairness and equal justice for all citizens of the
   United States. The their Offices Constitution they drafted promotes
   judicial independence in two major ways. First, during good Behaviour,
   and federal judges are appointed for life, and they can be removed from
   office only through impeachment and conviction by Congress of "Treason,
   Bribery, or other high Crimes shall, at stated Times, and
   Misdemeanors." Second, the Constitution provides that the compensation
   of fed- receive for their Services, eral judges "shall not be
   diminished during their Continuance in Office," which means that
   neither the President nor Congress can reduce the salary of a federal
   judge. These a Compensation, which shall two protections help an
   independent judiciary to decide cases free from popular pas- not be
   diminished during their sion and political influence. Continuance in
   Office. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9
   9 9 2 The Federal Courts in American Government The three branches of
   the federal government - legislative, executive, and judicial - operate
   within a constitutional system known as "checks and bal- ances." This
   means that although each branch is formally separate from the other
   two, the Constitution often requires cooperation among the branches.
   Federal laws, for example, are passed by Congress and signed by the
   Presi- dent. The judicial branch, in turn, has the authority to decide
   the constitu- tionality of federal laws and resolve other disputes over
   federal laws, but judges depend upon the executive branch to enforce
   court decisions. The Federal Courts and Congress The Constitution gives
   Congress the power to create federal courts other than the Su- preme
   Court and to determine their jurisdiction. It is Congress, not the
   judiciary, that controls the type of cases that may be addressed in the
   federal courts. Congress has three other basic responsibilities that
   determine how the courts will operate. First, it decides how many
   judges there should be and where they will work. Second, through the
   confirmation process, Congress deter- mines which of the President's
   judicial nominees ultimately become federal judges. Third, Congress
   approves the federal courts' budget and appropri- T H E A D M I N I S T
   R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 3 ates money for
   the judiciary to operate. The judiciary's budget is a very small part -
   substantially less than one percent - of the entire federal budget. The
   Federal Courts and the Executive Branch Under the Constitution, the
   President appoints federal judges with the "ad- vice and consent" of
   the Senate. The President usually consults senators or other elected
   officials concerning candidates for vacancies on the federal courts.
   The President's power to appoint new federal judges is not the
   judiciary's only interaction with the executive branch. The Department
   of Justice, which is responsible for prosecuting federal crimes and for
   representing the gov- ernment in civil cases, is the most frequent
   litigator in the federal court sys- tem. Several other executive branch
   agencies affect the operations of the courts. The United States
   Marshals Service, for example, provides security for federal
   courthouses and judges, and the General Services Administra- tion
   builds and maintains federal courthouses. Within the executive branch
   there are some specialized subject-matter courts, and numerous federal
   administrative agencies that adjudicate dis- With certain very limited
   putes involving specific federal laws and benefits programs. These
   courts exceptions, each step of include the United States Tax Court,
   the United States Court of Military the federal judicial process
   Appeals, and the United States Court of Veterans Appeals. Although
   these courts and agencies are not part of the judiciary established
   under Article III is open to the public. of the Constitution, appeals
   of their decisions typically may be taken to the Article III courts.
   The Federal Courts and the Public With certain very limited exceptions,
   each step of the federal judicial process is open to the public. Many
   federal courthouses are historic buildings, and all are designed to
   inspire in the public a respect for the tradition and pur- pose of the
   American judicial process. An individual citizen who wishes to observe
   a court in session may go to the federal courthouse, check the court
   calendar, and watch a proceeding. Any- U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E
   F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 4 one may review the pleadings and
   other papers in a case by going to the clerk of court's office and
   asking for the appropriate case file. Unlike most of the state courts,
   however, the federal courts generally do not permit televi- sion or
   radio coverage of trial court proceedings. The right of public access
   to court proceedings is partly derived from the Constitution and partly
   from court tradition. By conducting their judicial work in public view,
   judges enhance public confidence in the courts, and they allow citizens
   to learn first-hand how our judicial system works. In a few situations
   the public may not have full access to court records and court
   proceedings. In a high-profile trial, for example, there may not be
   enough space in the courtroom to accommodate everyone who would like to
   observe. Access to the courtroom also may be restricted for security or
   privacy reasons, such as the protection of a juvenile or a confidential
   infor- mant. Finally, certain documents may be placed under seal by the
   judge, meaning that they are not available to the public. Examples of
   sealed infor- mation include confidential business records, certain law
   enforcement re- ports, and juvenile records. T H E A D M I N I S T R A
   T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 5 Structure of the
   Federal Courts The Supreme Court is the highest court in the federal
   judiciary. Congress has established two levels of federal courts under
   the Supreme Court: the trial courts and the appellate courts. Trial
   Courts The United States district courts are the trial courts of the
   federal court sys- tem. Within limits set by Congress and the
   Constitution, the district courts have jurisdiction to hear nearly all
   categories of federal cases, including both civil and criminal matters.
   There are 94 federal judicial districts, including at least one
   district in each state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Each
   district includes a United States bankruptcy court as a unit of the
   dis- trict court. Three territories of the United States - the Virgin
   Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands - have district courts
   that hear federal cases, including bankruptcy cases. There are two
   special trial courts that have nationwide jurisdiction over cer- tain
   types of cases. The Court of International Trade addresses cases
   involv- ing international trade and customs issues. The United States
   Court of Federal Claims has jurisdiction over most claims for money
   damages against the United States, disputes over federal contracts,
   unlawful "takings" of private property by the federal government, and a
   variety of other claims against the United States. Appellate Courts The
   94 judicial districts are organized into 12 regional circuits, each of
   which has a United States court of appeals. A court of appeals hears
   appeals from the district courts located within its circuit, as well as
   appeals from decisions of federal administrative agencies. In addition,
   the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has nationwide
   jurisdiction to hear appeals in specialized cases, such as those
   involving patent laws and cases decided by the Court of International
   Trade and the Court of Federal Claims. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E
   F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 6 United States Supreme Court The
   United States Supreme Court consists of the Chief Justice of the United
   States and eight associate justices. At its discretion, and within
   certain guide- lines established by Congress, the Supreme Court each
   year hears a limited number of the cases it is asked to decide. Those
   cases may begin in the fed- eral or state courts, and they usually
   involve important questions about the Constitution or federal law. The
   United States Federal Courts SUPREME UNITED STATES COURT SUPREME COURT
   APPELLATE U.S. Courts of Appeals COURTS 12 Regional Circuit Courts of
   Appeals 1 U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit TRIAL U.S.
   District Courts COURTS 94 judicial districts U.S. Bankruptcy Courts
   U.S. Court of International Trade U.S. Court of Federal Claims FEDERAL
   COURTS AND OTHER ENTITIES Military Courts (Trial and Appellate) OUTSIDE
   THE Court of Veterans Appeals JUDICIAL BRANCH U.S. Tax Court Federal
   administrative agencies and boards T H ET A H E D M A ID N M II S N T I
   SRT AR TA IT VI E V E OO FF FF II C C E E O O F F T TH HE E U .US .. S
   .C O CU OR U T SR T S 7 The Jurisdiction of the Federal Courts Before a
   federal court can hear a case, or "exercise its jurisdiction," certain
   conditions must be met. First, under the Constitution, federal courts
   exer- cise only "judicial" powers. This means that federal judges may
   interpret the law only through the resolution of actual legal disputes,
   referred to in Article III of the Constitution as "Cases or
   Controversies." A court cannot attempt to correct a problem on its own
   initiative, or to answer a hypo- thetical legal question. Second,
   assuming there is an actual case or controversy, the plaintiff in a A
   court cannot attempt to federal lawsuit also must have legal "standing"
   to ask the court for a deci- correct a problem on its own sion. That
   means the plaintiff must have been aggrieved, or legally harmed in some
   way, by the defendant. initiative, or to answer a hypothetical legal
   question. Third, the case must present a category of dispute that the
   law in question was designed to address, and it must be a complaint
   that the court has the power to remedy. In other words, the court must
   be authorized, under the Constitution or a federal law, to hear the
   case and grant appropriate relief to the plaintiff. Finally, the case
   cannot be "moot," that is, it must present an ongoing problem for the
   court to resolve. The federal courts, thus, are courts of "limited"
   jurisdiction because they may only decide certain types of cases as
   provided by Congress or as identified in the Constitution. Although the
   details of the complex web of federal jurisdiction that Con- gress has
   given the federal courts is beyond the scope of this brief guide, it is
   important to understand that there are two main sources of the cases
   com- ing before the federal courts: "federal question" jurisdiction,
   and "diversity" jurisdiction. In general, federal courts may decide
   cases that involve the United States government, the United States
   Constitution or federal laws, or controversies between states or
   between the United States and foreign governments. A case that raises
   such a "federal question" may be filed in federal court. Ex- U N DU
   ENRDSE TRAS NT DA INNDGI N T H G ET F H EE DF EE RD AE LR A CL O U C R
   O TU SR T S G · 1 9 19 9 9 9 9 8 amples of such cases might include a
   claim by an individual for entitlement to money under a federal
   government program such as Social Security, a claim by the government
   that someone has violated federal laws, or a chal- lenge to actions
   taken by a federal agency. A case also may be filed in federal court
   based on the "diversity of citizen- ship" of the litigants, such as
   between citizens of different states, or be- tween United States
   citizens and those of another country. To ensure fairness to the
   out-of-state litigant, the Constitution provides that such cases may be
   heard in a federal court. An important limit to diversity jurisdiction
   is T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O
   U R T S 9 Geographic Boundaries of United States Courts of Appeals and
   United States District Courts that only cases involving more than
   $75,000 in potential damages may be filed in a federal court. Claims
   below that amount may only be pursued in state court. Moreover, any
   diversity jurisdiction case regardless of the amount of money involved
   may be brought in a state court rather than a federal court. Federal
   courts also have jurisdiction over all bankruptcy matters, which
   Congress has determined should be addressed in federal courts rather
   than the state courts. Through the bankruptcy process, individuals or
   businesses that can no longer pay their creditors may either seek a
   court-supervised U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R
   T S G 1 9 9 9 10 liquidation of their assets, or they may reorganize
   their financial affairs and work out a plan to pay off their debts.
   Although federal courts are located in every state, they are not the
   only forum available to potential litigants. In fact, the great
   majority of legal disputes in American courts are addressed in the
   separate state court sys- tems. For example, state courts have
   jurisdiction over virtually all divorce and child custody matters,
   probate and inheritance issues, real estate ques- tions, and juvenile
   matters, and they handle most criminal cases, contract disputes,
   traffic violations, and personal injury cases. In addition, certain
   categories of legal disputes may be resolved in special courts or
   entities that are part of the federal executive or legislative
   branches, and by state and federal administrative agencies. T H E A D M
   I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 11 CODE
   OF CONDUCT FOR UNITED STATES JUDGES A judge should uphold the integrity
   and independence of the judiciary. A judge should avoid impropriety and
   the appearance of impropriety in all activities. A judge should perform
   the duties of the office impartially and diligently. A judge may engage
   in extra-judicial activities to improve the law, United States Judges
   the legal system, and the administration of justice. A judge should
   regulate The work of the federal courts touches upon many of the most
   significant extra-judicial activities to issues affecting the American
   people, and federal judges exercise wide au- minimize the risk of
   conflict with judicial duties. thority and discretion in the cases over
   which they preside. This section dis- cusses how federal judges are
   chosen, and provides basic information on A judge should regularly file
   judicial compensation, ethics, and the role of senior and recalled
   judges. reports of compensation received for law-related and
   extra-judicial activities. Appointment and Compensation A judge should
   refrain from political activity. Justices of the Supreme Court, judges
   of the courts of appeals and the dis- trict courts, and judges of the
   Court of International Trade, are appointed under Article III of the
   Constitution by the President of the United States with the advice and
   consent of the Senate. Article III judges are appointed for life, and
   they can only be removed through the impeachment process. Although
   there are no special qualifications to become a judge of these courts,
   those who are nominated are typically very accomplished private or
   government attorneys, judges in state courts, magistrate judges or
   bank- ruptcy judges, or law professors. The judiciary plays no role in
   the nomi- nation or confirmation process. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H
   E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 12 Bankruptcy judges are judicial
   officers of the district courts and are appointed by the courts of
   appeals for 14-year terms. Magistrate judges are judicial officers of
   the district courts and are appointed by the judges of the district
   court for eight-year terms. The President and the Senate play no role
   in the selection of bankruptcy and magistrate judges. Judges of the
   Court of Fed- eral Claims are appointed for terms of 15 years by the
   President with the advice and consent of the Senate. Each court in the
   federal system has a chief judge who, in addition to hear- ing cases,
   has administrative responsibilities relating to the operation of the
   court. The chief judge is normally the judge who has served on the
   court the longest. Chief district and court of appeals judges must be
   under age 65 to be designated as chief judge. They may serve for a
   maximum of seven years and may not serve as chief judge beyond the age
   of 70. All federal judges receive salaries and benefits that are set by
   Congress. Judi- cial salaries are roughly equal to salaries of Members
   of Congress. Judicial Ethics Federal judges abide by the Code of
   Conduct for United States Judges, a set of ethical principles and
   guidelines adopted by the Judicial Conference of the United States. The
   Code of Conduct provides guidance for judges on issues of judicial
   integrity and independence, judicial diligence and impar- tiality,
   permissible extra-judicial activities, and the avoidance of impropri-
   ety or even its appearance. Judges may not hear cases in which they
   have either personal knowledge of the disputed facts, a personal bias
   concerning a party to the case, earlier involvement in the case as a
   lawyer, or a financial interest in any party or subject matter of the
   case. Many federal judges devote time to public service and educational
   activities. They have a distinguished history of service to the legal
   profession through their writing, speaking, and teaching. This
   important role is recognized in the Code of Conduct, which encourages
   judges to engage in activities to improve the law, the legal system,
   and the administration of justice. T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O
   F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 13 Senior and Recalled Judges
   Court of appeals, district court, and Court of International Trade
   judges Senior judges typically have life tenure, and they may retire if
   they are at least 65 years old and meet handle about 1520% of certain
   years of service requirements. Most Article III judges who are eli-
   gible to retire decide to continue to hear cases on a full or part-time
   basis as the appellate and district "senior judges." Retired
   bankruptcy, magistrate, and Court of Federal Claims court workloads.
   judges also may be "recalled" to active service. Without the efforts of
   senior and recalled judges, the judiciary would need many more judges
   to handle its cases. Senior judges, for example, typically handle about
   15-20% of the appellate and district court workloads. U N D E R S T A N
   D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 14 The Federal
   Judicial Process in Brief This section describes three key features of
   the federal judicial system and gives an overview of the process in
   criminal cases, civil cases, and bank- ruptcy proceedings. Also
   included are brief descriptions of jury service and selection
   procedures and the appeals process. An Adversarial System The
   litigation process in United States courts is referred to as an
   "adversarial" system because it relies on the litigants to present
   their dispute before a neu- tral fact-finder. According to American
   legal tradition, inherited from the English common law, the clash of
   adversaries before the court is most likely to allow the jury or judge
   to determine the truth and resolve the dispute at hand. In some other
   legal systems, judges or other court officials investigate and assist
   the parties to find relevant evidence or obtain testimony from
   witnesses. In the United States, the work of collecting evidence and
   prepar- ing to present it to the court is accomplished by the litigants
   and their attor- neys, normally without assistance from the court. Fees
   and the Costs of Litigation Another characteristic of the American
   judicial system is that litigants typi- cally pay their own court costs
   and attorneys fees whether they win or lose. The federal courts charge
   fees that are mostly set by Congress. For example, it costs $150 to
   file a civil case. Other costs of litigation, such as attorneys and
   experts fees, are more substantial. In criminal cases the government
   pays the costs of investigation and prosecution. The government also
   provides a lawyer without cost for any criminal defendant who is unable
   to afford one. In civil cases, plaintiffs who cannot afford to pay
   court fees may seek per- mission from the court to proceed without
   paying those fees. Procedural Rules for Conducting Litigation There are
   federal rules of evidence, and rules of civil, criminal, bankruptcy and
   appellate procedure that must be followed in the federal courts. They
   are designed to promote simplicity, fairness, the just determination of
   litiga- tion, and the elimination of unjustifiable expense and delay.
   The rules are T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U
   . S . C O U R T S 15 drafted by committees of judges, lawyers, and
   professors appointed by the To avoid the expense and Chief Justice.
   They are published widely by the Administrative Office for delay of
   having a trial, judges public comment, approved by the Judicial
   Conference of the United States, encourage the litigants to and
   promulgated by the Supreme Court. The rules become law unless the
   Congress votes to reject or modify them. try to reach an agreement
   resolving their dispute. Civil Cases A federal civil case involves a
   legal dispute between two or more parties. To begin a civil lawsuit in
   federal court, the plaintiff files a complaint with the court and
   "serves" a copy of the complaint on the defendant. The complaint
   describes the plaintiff's injury, explains how the defendant caused the
   in- jury, and asks the court to order relief. A plaintiff may seek
   money to com- pensate for the injury, or may ask the court to order the
   defendant to stop the conduct that is causing the harm. The court may
   also order other types of relief, such as a declaration of the legal
   rights of the plaintiff in a particu- lar situation. To prepare a case
   for trial, the litigants may conduct "discovery." In discov- ery, the
   litigants must provide information to each other about the case, such
   as the identity of witnesses and copies of any documents related to the
   case. The purpose of discovery is to prepare for trial by requiring the
   liti- gants to assemble their evidence and prepare to call witnesses.
   Each side also may file requests, or "motions," with the court seeking
   rulings on the discov- ery of evidence, or on the procedures to be
   followed at trial. One common method of discovery is the deposition. In
   a deposition, a wit- ness is required to answer under oath questions
   about the case asked by the lawyers in the presence of a court
   reporter. The court reporter is a person specially trained to record
   all testimony and produce a word-for-word ac- count called a
   transcript. To avoid the expense and delay of having a trial, judges
   encourage the liti- gants to try to reach an agreement resolving their
   dispute. In particular, the courts encourage the use of mediation,
   arbitration, and other forms of al- ternative dispute resolution, or
   "ADR," designed to produce an early resolu- tion of a dispute without
   the need for trial or other court proceedings. As a result, litigants
   often decide to resolve a civil lawsuit with an agreement known as a
   "settlement." U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S
   G 1 9 9 9 16 If a case is not settled, the court will schedule a trial.
   In a wide variety of civil cases, either side is entitled under the
   Constitution to request a jury trial. If the parties waive their right
   to a jury, then the case will be heard by a judge without a jury. At a
   trial, witnesses testify under the supervision of a judge. By applying
   rules of evidence, the judge determines which information may be
   presented in the courtroom. To ensure that witnesses speak from their
   own knowledge and do not change their story based on what they hear
   another witness say, witnesses are kept out of the courtroom until it
   is time for them to testify. A court reporter keeps a record of the
   trial proceedings. A deputy clerk of court also keeps a record of each
   person who testifies and marks for the record any documents,
   photographs, or other items introduced into evidence. As the
   questioning of a witness proceeds, the opposing attorney may object to
   a question if it invites the witness to say something that is not based
   on the witness's personal knowledge, is unfairly prejudicial, or is
   irrelevant to the case. The judge rules on the objection, generally by
   ruling that it is either sustained or overruled. If the objection is
   sustained, the witness is not re- quired to answer the question, and
   the attorney must move on to his next question. The court reporter
   records the objections so that a court of ap- peals can review the
   arguments later if necessary. At the conclusion of the evidence, each
   side gives a closing argument. In a jury trial, the judge will explain
   the law that is relevant to the case and the decisions the jury needs
   to make. The jury generally is asked to determine whether the defendant
   is responsible for harming the plaintiff in some way, and then to
   determine the amount of damages that the defendant will be required to
   pay. If the case is being tried before a judge without a jury, known as
   a "bench" trial, the judge will decide these issues. In a civil case
   the plain- tiff must convince the jury by a "preponderance of the
   evidence" (i.e., that it is more likely than not) that the defendant is
   responsible for the harm the plaintiff has suffered. T H E A D M I N I
   S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 17 Criminal
   Cases The judicial process in a criminal case differs from a civil case
   in several important ways. At the beginning of a federal criminal case,
   the principal actors are the U.S. attorney (the prosecutor) and the
   grand jury. The U.S. attorney represents the United States in most
   court proceedings, including all criminal prosecutions. The grand jury
   reviews evidence presented by the U.S. attorney and decides whether
   there is sufficient evidence to require a defendant to stand trial.
   After a person is arrested, a pretrial services or probation officer of
   the court immediately interviews the defendant and conducts an
   investigation of the defendant's background. The information obtained
   by the pretrial services or probation office will be used to help a
   judge decide whether to release the The standard of proof in a
   defendant into the community before trial, and whether to impose condi-
   tions of release. criminal trial is proof "beyond a reasonable doubt,"
   At an initial appearance, a judge advises the defendant of the charges
   filed, con- which means the evidence siders whether the defendant
   should be held in jail until trial, and determines must be so strong
   that there whether there is probable cause to believe that an offense
   has been committed and the defendant has committed it. Defendants who
   are unable to afford coun- is no reasonable doubt sel are advised of
   their right to a court-appointed attorney. The court may ap- that the
   defendant point either a federal public defender or a private attorney
   who has agreed to committed the crime. accept such appointments from
   the court. In either type of appointment, the attorney will be paid by
   the court from funds appropriated by Congress. Defendants re- leased
   into the community before trial may be required to obey certain
   restrictions, such as home confinement or drug testing, and to make
   periodic reports to a pretrial services of- ficer to ensure appearance
   at trial. The defendant enters a plea to the charges brought by the
   U.S. attorney at a hearing known as an arraignment. Most defendants -
   more than 90% - plead guilty rather than go to trial. If a defendant
   pleads guilty in return for the government agreeing to drop certain
   charges or to recommend a lenient sentence, the agreement often is
   called a "plea bargain." If the defendant pleads guilty, the judge may
   impose a sentence at that time, but more commonly will schedule a
   hearing to determine the sentence at a later date. In most felony cases
   the judge waits for the results of a presentence report, pre- pared by
   the court's probation office, before imposing sentence. If the
   defendant pleads not guilty, the judge will proceed to schedule a
   trial. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9
   9 9 18 18 Criminal cases include a limited amount of pretrial discovery
   proceedings similar to those in civil cases, with substantial
   restrictions to protect the iden- tity of government informants and to
   prevent intimidation of witnesses. The attorneys also may file motions,
   which are requests for rulings by the court before the trial. For
   example, defense attorneys often file a motion to sup- press evidence,
   which asks the court to exclude from the trial evidence that the
   defendant believes was obtained by the government in violation of the
   defendant's constitutional rights. In a criminal trial, the burden of
   proof is on the government. Defendants do not have to prove their
   innocence. Instead, the government must provide evidence to convince
   the jury of the defendant's guilt. The standard of proof in a criminal
   trial is proof "beyond a reasonable doubt," which means the evidence
   must be so strong that there is no reasonable doubt that the defen-
   dant committed the crime. If a defendant is found not guilty, the
   defendant is released and the govern- ment may not appeal. Nor can the
   person be charged again with the same crime in a federal court. The
   Constitution prohibits "double jeopardy," or being tried twice for the
   same offense. If the verdict is guilty, the judge determines the
   defendant's sentence accord- ing to special federal sentencing
   guidelines issued by the United States Sen- tencing Commission. The
   court's probation office prepares a report for the court that applies
   the sentencing guidelines to the individual defendant and the crimes
   for which he or she has been found guilty. During sentencing, the court
   may consider not only the evidence produced at trial, but all relevant
   information that may be provided by the pretrial services officer, the
   U.S. attorney, and the defense attorney. In unusual circumstances, the
   court may depart from the sentence calculated according to the
   sentencing guidelines. A sentence may include time in prison, a fine to
   be paid to the government, and restitution to be paid to crime victims.
   The court's probation officers assist the court in enforcing any
   conditions that are imposed as part of a criminal sentence. The
   supervision of offenders also may involve services such as substance
   abuse testing and treatment programs, job counseling, and alternative
   detention options. T H ET A H E D M A ID N M II S N T I SRT AR TA IT VI
   E V E OO FF FF II C C E E O O F F T TH HE E U .US .. S .C O CU OR U T
   SR T S 19 19 Jury Service J U R O R Perhaps the most important way
   individual citizens become involved in the Q UA L I F I C AT I O N S
   federal judicial process is by serving as jurors. There are two types
   of juries A N D E X E M P T I O N S serving distinct functions in the
   federal trial courts: trial juries (also known Qualifications to be as
   petit juries), and grand juries. a Juror United States citizen Trial
   jury At least 18 years of age A civil trial jury is typically made up
   of 6 to 12 persons. In a civil case, the role Reside in the judicial
   district for one year of the jury is to listen to the evidence
   presented at a trial, to decide whether the Adequate proficiency
   defendant injured the plaintiff or otherwise failed to fulfill a legal
   duty to the in English plaintiff, and to determine what the
   compensation or penalty should be. A No disqualifying mental or
   physical condition criminal trial jury is usually made up of 12
   members. Criminal juries decide Not currently subject to whether the
   defendant committed the crime as charged. The sentence usually felony
   charges is set by a judge. Verdicts in both civil and criminal cases
   must be unanimous, Never convicted of a felony (unless civil rights
   have although the parties in a civil case may agree to a non-unanimous
   verdict. A been legally restored) jury's deliberations are conducted in
   private, out of sight and hearing of the judge, litigants, witnesses,
   and others in the courtroom. Exemptions from Service Active duty
   members Grand jury of the armed forces Members of police A grand jury,
   which normally consists of 16 to 23 members, has a more and fire
   departments specialized function. The United States attorney, the
   prosecutor in federal Certain public officials criminal cases, presents
   evidence to the grand jury for them to determine Others based on
   whether there is "probable cause" to believe that an individual has
   commit- individual court rules (such as members of voluntary ted a
   crime and should be put on trial. If the grand jury decides there is
   emergency service organizations enough evidence, it will issue an
   indictment against the defendant. Grand and people who recently have
   served on a jury) jury proceedings are not open for public observation.
   Temporary Deferrals Jury selection procedures of Service Potential
   jurors are chosen from a jury pool generated by random selection May be
   granted at the court's discretion on the grounds of of citizens' names
   from lists of registered voters, or combined lists of voters "undue
   hardship or extreme inconvenience." and people with drivers licenses,
   in the judicial district. The potential jurors complete questionnaires
   to help determine whether they are qualified to serve on a jury. After
   reviewing the questionnaires, the court randomly selects individuals to
   be summoned to appear for jury duty. These selection meth- ods help
   ensure that jurors represent a cross section of the community, with-
   out regard to race, gender, national origin, age or political
   affiliation. U N DU ENRDSE TRAS NT DA INNDGI N T H G ET F H EE DF EE RD
   AE LR A CL O U C R O TU SR T S G · 1 9 19 9 9 9 9 20 T E R M S O F J U
   RY S E RV I C E Length of Service Trial jury service varies by court
   Some courts require service for one day or for the duration of one
   trial; others require service for a fixed term of up to one month Being
   summoned for jury service does not guarantee that an individual (or
   more if a trial is longer). Grand jury service may actually will serve
   on a jury. When a jury is needed for a trial, the group of be up to 18
   months. qualified jurors is taken to the courtroom where the trial will
   take place. Payment The judge and the attorneys then ask the potential
   jurors questions to de- $40 per day; in some termine their suitability
   to serve on the jury, a process called voir dire. The instances jurors
   may also receive meal and travel purpose of voir dire is to exclude
   from the jury people who may not be allowances. able to decide the case
   fairly. Members of the panel who know any person Employment Protections
   involved in the case, who have information about the case, or who may
   By law, employers must have strong prejudices about the people or
   issues involved in the case, typi- allow employees time off (paid or
   unpaid) for jury cally will be excused by the judge. The attorneys also
   may exclude a certain service. The law also forbids number of jurors
   without giving a reason. any employer from firing, intimidating, or
   coercing any permanent employee because of their federal jury service.
   T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R
   T S 21 Bankruptcy Cases Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over
   bankruptcy cases. This means that a bankruptcy case cannot be filed in
   a state court. The primary purposes of the law of bankruptcy are: (1)
   to give an honest debtor a "fresh start" in life by relieving the
   debtor of most debts, and (2) to repay creditors in an orderly manner
   to the extent that the debtor has prop- erty available for payment. A
   bankruptcy case normally begins by the debtor filing a petition with
   the bankruptcy court. A petition may be filed by an individual, by a
   husband and wife together, or by a corporation or other entity. The
   debtor is also required to file statements listing assets, income,
   liabilities, and the names and addresses of all creditors and how much
   they are owed. The filing of the petition automatically prevents, or
   "stays," debt collection actions against the debtor and the debtor's
   property. As long as the stay remains in effect, creditors cannot bring
   or continue lawsuits, make wage garnishments, or even make The primary
   purposes of telephone calls demanding payment. Creditors receive notice
   from the clerk of court the law of bankruptcy are: that the debtor has
   filed a bankruptcy petition. Some bankruptcy cases are filed to (1)
   allow a debtor to reorganize and establish a plan to repay creditors,
   while other cases to give an honest debtor involve liquidation of the
   debtor's property. In many bankruptcy cases involving a "fresh start"
   in life by relieving the debtor of liquidation of the property of
   individual consumers, there is little or no money avail- most debts,
   and able from the debtor's estate to pay creditors. As a result, in
   these cases there are few (2) issues or disputes, and the debtor is
   normally granted a "discharge" of most debts to repay creditors in
   without objection. This means that the debtor will no longer be
   personally liable for an orderly manner to the repaying the debts.
   extent that the debtor has property available for payment. U N D E R S
   T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 22 Some
   bankruptcy cases are In other cases, however, disputes may give rise to
   litigation in a bankruptcy case over such matters as who owns certain
   property, how it should be used, filed to allow a debtor to what the
   property is worth, how much is owed on a debt, whether the debtor
   reorganize and establish should be discharged from certain debts, or
   how much money should be a plan to repay creditors, paid to lawyers,
   accountants, auctioneers, or other professionals. Litigation while
   other cases involve in the bankruptcy court is conducted in much the
   same way that civil cases liquidation of the are handled in the
   district court. There may be discovery, pretrial proceed- debtor's
   property. ings, settlement efforts, and a trial. C AT E G O R I E S O F
   B A N K R U P T C Y C A S E S Chapter 7 (Liquidation) Chapter 7 is
   designed to repay debts owed to creditors by selling most of the
   debtor's property. When a Chapter 7 case is filed, a trustee is
   appointed to take over the debtor's property for the benefit of the
   debtor's creditors. The debtor, however, is allowed to keep a limited
   amount of "exempt" property specified by law. The trustee then sells
   all non-exempt property of the debtor and distributes it to creditors
   in accordance with procedures set forth in the bankruptcy laws. Chapter
   13 (Debt Adjustment of An Individual) In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, the
   debtor may keep his or her property, but must repay creditors in
   installments taken from the debtor's future earnings. A debtor is
   required to submit a plan for approval by the court specifying how and
   when the debts will be repaid to creditors. A trustee is appointed in a
   Chapter 13 case, and a portion of the debtor's future income in most
   cases is paid to the trustee, who then pays creditors. Chapter 11
   (Reorganization) Chapter 11 is designed mainly to give an ongoing
   business an opportunity to resolve financial problems through
   reorganization. A trustee is not normally appointed. The debtor is
   allowed to continue to operate the business under court supervision.
   Chapter 12 (Debt Adjustment of a Family Farmer) Chapter 12 is similar
   in many respects to Chapter 13, except that it is available only to
   family farmers. Chapter 9 (Debt Adjustment of a Municipality) Chapter 9
   is available only to a political subdivision (i.e., a city, town, or
   county), public agency, or other instrumentality of a state. T H E A D
   M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 23
   The Appeals Process The losing party in a decision by a trial court in
   the federal system normally is entitled to appeal the decision to a
   federal court of appeals. Similarly, a litigant who is not satisfied
   with a decision made by a federal administrative agency usually may
   file a petition for review of the agency decision by a court of
   appeals. Judicial review in cases involving certain federal agencies or
   programs - for example, disputes over Social Security benefits - may be
   obtained first in a district court rather than directly to a court of
   appeals. In a civil case either side may appeal the verdict. In a
   criminal case, the defendant may appeal a guilty verdict, but the
   government may not appeal if a defendant is found not guilty. Either
   side in a criminal case may appeal with respect to the sentence that is
   imposed after a guilty verdict. In most bankruptcy courts, an appeal of
   a ruling by a bankruptcy judge may be taken to the district court.
   Several courts of appeals, however, have estab- lished a Bankruptcy
   Appellate Panel consisting of three bankruptcy judges to hear appeals
   directly from the bankruptcy courts. In either situation, the party
   that loses in the initial bankruptcy appeal may then appeal to the
   court of appeals. A litigant who files an appeal, known as an
   "appellant," must show that the trial court or administrative agency
   made a legal error that affected the deci- sion in the case. The court
   of appeals makes its decision based on the record of the case
   established by the trial court or agency. It does not receive addi-
   tional evidence or hear witnesses. The court of appeals also may review
   the factual findings of the trial court or agency, but typically may
   only overturn a decision on factual grounds if the findings were
   "clearly erroneous." Appeals are decided by panels of three judges
   working together. The appel- lant presents legal arguments to the
   panel, in writing, in a document called a "brief." In the brief, the
   appellant tries to persuade the judges that the trial In a criminal
   case the defendant court made an error, and that its decision should be
   reversed. On the other may appeal a guilty verdict, but hand, the party
   defending against the appeal, known as the "appellee," tries the
   government may not appeal in its brief to show why the trial court
   decision was correct, or why any error made by the trial court was not
   significant enough to affect the outcome of if a defendant is found not
   guilty. the case. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R
   T S G 1 9 9 9 24 Although some cases are decided on the basis of
   written briefs alone, many cases are selected for an "oral argument"
   before the court. Oral argument in the court of appeals is a structured
   discussion between the appellate lawyers and the panel of judges
   focusing on the legal principles in dispute. Each side is given a short
   time - usually about 15 minutes - to present arguments to the court.
   The court of appeals decision usually will be the final word in the
   case, un- less it sends the case back to the trial court for additional
   proceedings, or the parties ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the
   case. In some cases the decision may be reviewed en banc, that is, by a
   larger group of judges (usu- ally all) of the court of appeals for the
   circuit. A litigant who loses in a federal court of appeals, or in the
   highest court of The court of appeals decision a state, may file a
   petition for a "writ of certiorari," which is a document usually will
   be the final word asking the Supreme Court to review the case. The
   Supreme Court, how- in the case, unless it sends the ever, does not
   have to grant review. The Court typically will agree to hear a case
   back to the trial court case only when it involves an unusually
   important legal principle, or when for additional proceedings, two or
   more federal appellate courts have interpreted a law differently. There
   are also a small number of special circumstances in which the Supreme
   or the parties ask the Court is required by law to hear an appeal. When
   the Supreme Court hears U.S. Supreme Court to a case, the parties are
   required to file written briefs and the Court may review the case. hear
   oral argument. T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E
   U . S . C O U R T S 25 Federal Judicial Administration Individual
   Courts The day-to-day responsibility for judicial administration rests
   with each individual court. Each court is given the responsibility by
   statute and ad- ministrative practice to appoint support staff,
   supervise spending, and manage the court's records. The chief judge of
   each court plays a key leadership role in overseeing and The judicial
   council is coordinating the efficient operations of the court. Although
   the chief judge is generally responsible for overseeing day-to-day
   court administration, authorized by statute to important policy
   decisions are made by the judges of the court working issue orders to
   promote together. accountability and the "effective and expeditious The
   primary administrative officer of each court is the clerk of court. The
   administration of justice clerk manages the court's non-judicial
   functions in accordance with policies within its circuit." set by the
   court, and reports directly to the court through its chief judge. Among
   the clerk's many functions are: * Maintaining the records and dockets
   of the court * Paying all fees, fines, costs and other monies collected
   into the U.S. Treasury * Administering the court's jury system *
   Providing interpreters and court reporters * Sending official court
   notices and summons * Providing courtroom support services The Circuit
   Judicial Councils At the regional level, a "circuit judicial council"
   in each circuit oversees the administration of the courts located in
   its geographic circuit. Each circuit judicial council consists of the
   chief circuit judge, who serves as the chair, and an equal number of
   other circuit and district judges. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E
   D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 26 The judicial council oversees
   numerous aspects of court of appeals and dis- COURT trict court
   operations. It is authorized by statute to issue orders to promote
   SUPPORT STAFF accountability and the "effective and expeditious
   administration of justice In addition to their per- within its
   circuit." Aside from its fundamental responsibility to ensure that
   sonal chambers staff of law clerks and secretaries, individual courts
   are operating effectively, the judicial council is responsible judges
   rely on central for reviewing local court rules for consistency with
   national rules of proce- court support staff to assist in the work of
   the dure, approving district court plans on topics such as equal
   employment court. These staff include: opportunity and jury selection,
   and reviewing complaints of judicial mis- Clerk conduct. Each judicial
   council appoints a "circuit executive," who works The chief
   administrative closely with the chief circuit judge to coordinate a
   wide range of administra- officer of the court, who keeps court
   records, tive matters in the circuit. handles court monies, and
   supervises court operations. The Judicial Conference of the United
   States Circuit Executive and National Administration Performs a broad
   range of administrative tasks The Judicial Conference of the United
   States under the direction of the regional circuit The Judicial
   Conference of the United States is the federal courts' national
   judicial council policy-making body. The Chief Justice of the United
   States presides over Court Reporter the Judicial Conference, which
   consists of 26 other members including the Makes a word-for-word record
   of court proceedings chief judge of each court of appeals, one district
   court judge from each and prepares a transcript. regional circuit, and
   the chief judge of the Court of International Trade. Court Librarian
   The Judicial Conference works through committees established along sub-
   Maintains court libraries ject matter lines to recommend national
   policies and legislation on all as- and assists in meeting the
   information needs of the pects of federal judicial administration.
   Committees include budget, rules judges and lawyers. of practice and
   procedure, court administration and case management, Staff Attorneys
   criminal law, bankruptcy, judicial resources (judgeships and personnel
   mat- and Pro Se Law Clerks ters), automation and technology, and codes
   of conduct. Assist the court with research and drafting of opinions.
   The Administrative Office of the United States Courts Pretrial Services
   Officers The Administrative Office provides a broad range of
   legislative, legal, finan- and Probation Officers Interview defendants
   cial, automation, management, administrative, and program support ser-
   before trial, investigate vices to the federal courts. The
   Administrative Office, an agency within the their backgrounds, file
   judicial branch, is responsible for carrying out the policies of the
   Judicial reports to assist judges in deciding on pretrial release
   Conference of the United States. A primary responsibility of the
   Adminis- and sentencing of convicted trative Office is to provide staff
   support and counsel to the Judicial Confer- defendants, and supervise
   released defendants. ence and its committees. The numerous
   responsibilities of the Administrative Office also include: collecting
   and reporting judicial branch statistics, devel- T H E A D M I N I S T
   R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 27 oping budgets,
   conducting studies and assessments of judiciary operations and
   programs, providing technical assistance to the courts, developing
   train- ing programs, and fostering communications within the judiciary
   and with other branches of government and the public. The Director of
   the Administrative Office, who is appointed by the Chief Justice in
   consultation with the Judicial Conference, serves as the chief
   administrative officer of the federal courts. Congress has vested many
   of the judiciary's administrative responsibilities in the Director.
   Recogniz- ing, however, that the courts can make better business
   decisions based on local needs, the Director in the last few years has
   delegated the responsibil- ity for many administrative matters to the
   individual courts. This concept, known as "decentralization," allows
   each court to operate with consider- able autonomy and sound management
   principles in accordance with poli- cies and guidelines set at the
   regional and national level. The Federal Judicial Center The Federal
   Judicial Center provides training and research for the federal
   judiciary in a wide range of areas including court administration, case
   man- agement, budget and finance, human resources, and court
   technology. It develops orientation and continuing education programs
   for judges and other court personnel, including seminars, curriculum
   materials for use by individual courts, monographs and manuals, and
   audio, video, and in- teractive media programs. The Center conducts
   studies of judiciary op- erations, and makes recommendations to the
   Judicial Conference for improvement of the administration and
   management of the federal courts. The Center's operations are overseen
   by a board of directors consisting of the Chief Justice, the Director
   of the Administrative Office, and seven judges chosen by the Judicial
   Conference. "Decentralization" allows each court to operate with
   Judicial Panel for Multidistrict Litigation considerable autonomy The
   Judicial Panel for Multidistrict Litigation has the authority to
   transfer and sound management cases that are pending in different
   districts but involve common questions principles in accordance of fact
   (for example, mass tort actions arising from airplane crashes, breast
   implants, or asbestos) to a single district for coordinated or
   consolidated with policies and guidelines pretrial proceedings. The
   Panel consists of seven court of appeals and dis- set at the regional
   and trict court judges designated by the Chief Justice. national level.
   U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 28
   United States Sentencing Commission The U.S. Sentencing Commission
   establishes sentencing guidelines for the federal criminal justice
   system. The Commission also monitors the perfor- mance of probation
   officers with regard to sentencing recommendations, and has established
   a research program that includes a clearinghouse and information center
   on federal sentencing practices. The Sentencing Com- mission consists
   of a chairman, three vice chairs, and three other voting com-
   missioners who are appointed for six-year terms by the President. The
   Judiciary's Budget In recognition of the constitutional separation of
   powers among the three branches of the federal government, Congress has
   given the judiciary authority to prepare and execute its own budget.
   The Administrative Office, in consultation with the courts and with
   various Judicial Conference committees, prepares a proposed budget for
   the judiciary for each fiscal year. The proposal is reviewed and
   approved by the Judicial Conference and is submitted to the Congress
   with detailed justifications. By law, the President must include in his
   budget to Congress the judiciary's budget proposal without change. The
   appro- priation committees of the Congress conduct hearings at which
   judges and the Director of the Administrative Office frequently pre-
   sent and justify the judiciary's projected expenditures. After Congress
   enacts a budget for the judiciary, the Judicial Confer- ence approves a
   plan to spend the money, and the Administrative Office distributes
   funds directly to each court, operating unit, and program in the
   judiciary. Individual courts have considerable authority and
   flexibility to conduct their work, establish budget priorities, make
   sound business decisions, hire staff, and make purchases, consistent
   with Judicial Conference policies. T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V E O
   F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 29 Commonly Asked Questions
   About the Federal Judicial Process How do I file a civil case? Is there
   a charge? A civil action is begun by the filing of a complaint. Parties
   beginning a civil action in a district court are required to pay a
   filing fee set by statute. The current fee is $150. A plaintiff who is
   unable to pay the fee may file a request to proceed in forma pauperis.
   If the request is granted, the fees are waived. How do I file a
   criminal case? Individuals may not file criminal charges in federal
   courts. A criminal pro- ceeding is initiated by the government, usually
   through the U.S. attorney's office in coordination with a law
   enforcement agency. Allegations of crimi- nal behavior should be
   brought to the local police, the FBI, or other appro- priate law
   enforcement agency. How do I file for bankruptcy protection? Is there a
   charge? A bankruptcy case is begun by the filing of a petition. The
   required forms are available from the bankruptcy court clerk's office
   or at many stationery stores. There is a range of filing fees for
   bankruptcy cases, depending on the chapter of the bankruptcy code under
   which the case is filed. Chapter 7, the most common type filed by
   individuals, involves an almost complete liqui- dation of the assets of
   the debtor, as well as a discharge of most debts. There is a fee of
   $175 to file a case under Chapter 7. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F
   E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 30 How can I find a lawyer? Local bar
   associations usually offer lawyer referral services, often without
   charge. The clerk's office in each district court usually is able to
   help find a referral service. But personnel in the clerk's office and
   other federal court employees are prohibited from providing legal
   advice to individual litigants. Defendants in criminal proceedings have
   a right to a lawyer, and they are entitled to have counsel appointed at
   government expense if they are finan- cially unable to obtain adequate
   representation by private counsel. The Crimi- nal Justice Act requires
   a court determination that a person is financially eligible for
   court-appointed counsel. Defendants may be required to pay some of
   these costs. There is no general right to free legal assistance in
   civil proceedings. Some litigants obtain free or low-cost
   representation through local bar association referrals, or through
   legal services organizations. Litigants in civil cases may also proceed
   pro se; that is, they may represent themselves without the assis- tance
   of a lawyer. How are judges assigned to a particular court? Each
   federal judge is commissioned to a specific court. Judges have no au-
   thority to hear cases in other courts unless they are formally
   designated to do so. Because of heavy caseloads in certain districts,
   judges from other courts are often asked to hear cases in these
   districts. How are judges assigned to specific cases? Judge assignment
   methods vary, but the basic considerations in making as- signments are
   to assure an equitable distribution of caseload among judges and to
   avoid "judge shopping." The majority of courts use some variation of a
   random drawing under which each judge in a court receives roughly an
   equal caseload. What is a U.S. Magistrate Judge? Magistrate judges are
   appointed by the district court to serve for eight-year terms. Their
   duties fall into four general categories: conducting most of the
   initial proceedings in criminal cases (including search and arrest
   warrants, detention hearings, probable cause hearings, and appointment
   of attorneys); trial of certain criminal misdemeanor cases; trial of
   civil cases with the con- sent of the parties; and conducting a wide
   variety of other proceedings re- ferred to them by district judges
   (including deciding motions, reviewing petitions filed by prisoners,
   and conducting pretrial and settlement confer- ences). T H E A D M I N
   I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 31 How can
   I check on the status of a case? The clerk's office responds without
   charge to most inquiries on the status of a case. There is a fee to
   conduct certain searches and retrieve some informa- tion, and to make
   copies of court documents. Most federal courts have auto- mated systems
   that allow for the search and retrieval of case-related information at
   the public counters in the courthouse, and electronically from other
   locations. In many bankruptcy and appellate courts, telephone infor-
   mation systems enable callers to obtain case information by touch-tone
   phone. Court dockets and opinions may also be available on the
   Internet. The federal judiciary's Internet homepage, www.uscourts.gov,
   includes links to individual court websites, as well as a directory of
   court electronic public access services. (This brochure also includes a
   directory of federal courts). How quickly does a court reach a decision
   in a particular case? All cases are handled as expeditiously as
   possible. The Speedy Trial Act of 1974 establishes special time
   requirements for the prosecution and disposition of criminal cases in
   district courts. As a result, courts must give the scheduling of
   criminal cases a higher priority than civil cases. The Act normally
   allows only 70 days from a defendant's arrest to the beginning of the
   trial. There is no similar law governing civil trial scheduling, but on
   average the courts are able to resolve most civil cases in less than a
   year. Depending on its complexity, a particular case may require more
   or less time to address. There are numerous reasons why the progress of
   a particular case may be delayed, many of which are outside the court's
   control. Cases may be de- layed because settlement negotiations are in
   progress, or because there are shortages in judges or available
   courtrooms. How are staff hired in the federal courts? The federal
   court system's personnel decisions are decentralized. This means that
   each court conducts its own advertising and hiring for job positions.
   Judges select and hire their own chambers staff. The clerk of court and
   cer- tain other central court staff are hired by the court as a whole.
   Other court staff are hired by the clerk of court, who acts under the
   supervision of the court. Some employment opportunities are listed on
   the judiciary's Internet homepage, www.uscourts.gov, but often the
   clerk's office or Internet website of a particular court is the best
   source for a complete listing. The federal judiciary is committed to
   the national policy of ensuring equal employment opportunity to all
   persons. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1
   9 9 9 32 Common Legal Terms acquittal Judgment that a criminal
   defendant has not been proved guilty beyond a a reasonable doubt. In
   other words, a verdict of "not guilty." affidavit A written statement
   of facts confirmed by the oath of the party making it, before a notary
   or officer having authority to administer oaths. affirmed In the
   practice of the court of appeals, it means that the court of appeals
   has concluded that the lower court decision is correct and will stand
   as rendered by the lower court. answer The formal written statement by
   a defendant responding to a civil com- plaint and setting forth the
   grounds for his defense. appeal A request made after a trial by a party
   that has lost on one or more issues that a higher court (appellate
   court) review the trial court's decision to de- termine if it was
   correct. To make such a request is "to appeal" or "to take an appeal."
   One who appeals is called the "appellant;" the other party is the
   "appellee." appellate About appeals; an appellate court has the power
   to review the judgment of a lower court (trial court) or tribunal. For
   example, the U.S. circuit courts of appeals review the decisions of the
   U.S. district courts. arraignment A proceeding in which an individual
   who is accused of committing a crime is brought into court, told of the
   charges, and asked to plead guilty or not guilty. bail b Security given
   for the release of a criminal defendant or witness from legal custody
   (usually in the form of money) to secure his appearance on the day and
   time set by the court. bankruptcy A legal process by which persons or
   businesses that cannot pay their debts can seek the assistance of the
   court in getting a fresh start. Under the protection of the bankruptcy
   court, debtors may discharge their debts, usually by paying a portion
   of each debt. Bankruptcy judges preside over these proceedings. T H E A
   D M I N I S T R A T I V E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 33
   bench trial Trial without a jury in which a judge decides which party
   prevails. brief A written statement submitted by each party in a case
   that explains why the court should decide the case, or particular
   issues in a case, in that party's favor. chambers A judge's office,
   typically including work space for the judge's law clerks and c
   secretary. capital offense A crime punishable by death. case law The
   law as reflected in the written decisions of the courts. chief judge
   The judge who has primary responsibility for the administration of a
   court; chief judges are determined by seniority. clerk of court An
   officer appointed by the judges of the court to assist in managing the
   flow of cases through the court, maintain court records, handle
   financial matters, and provide other administrative support to the
   court. common law The legal system that originated in England and is
   now in use in the United States that relies on the articulation of
   legal principles in a historical suc- cession of judicial decisions.
   Common law principles can be changed by legislation. complaint A
   written statement filed by the plaintiff that initiates a civil case,
   stating the wrongs allegedly committed by the defendant and requesting
   relief from the court. contract An agreement between two or more
   persons that creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular
   thing. conviction A judgment of guilt against a criminal defendant. U N
   D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G 1 9 9 9 34
   counsel Legal advice; a term also used to refer to the lawyers in a
   case. court Government entity authorized to resolve legal disputes.
   Judges sometimes use "court" to refer to themselves in the third
   person, as in "the court has read the briefs." court reporter A person
   who makes a word-for-word record of what is said in court, gener- ally
   by using a stenographic machine, shorthand or audio recording, and then
   produces a transcript of the proceedings upon request. damages d Money
   paid by defendants to successful plaintiffs in civil cases to compen-
   sate the plaintiffs for their injuries. default judgment A judgment
   rendered in favor of the plaintiff because of the defendant's failure
   to answer or appear to contest the plaintiff's claim. defendant In a
   civil case, the person or organization against whom the plaintiff
   brings suit; in a criminal case, the person accused of the crime.
   deposition An oral statement made before an officer authorized by law
   to administer oaths. Such statements are often taken to examine
   potential witnesses, to obtain discovery, or to be used later in trial.
   See discovery. discovery The process by which lawyers learn about their
   opponent's case in prepara- tion for trial. Typical tools of discovery
   include depositions, interrogatories, requests for admissions, and
   requests for documents. All of these devices help the lawyer learn the
   relevant facts and collect and examine any relevant documents or other
   materials. docket A log containing the complete history of each case in
   the form of brief chro- nological entries summarizing the court
   proceedings. en banc e "In the bench" or "as a full bench." Refers to
   court sessions with the entire membership of a court participating
   rather than the usual number. U.S. cir- cuit courts of appeals usually
   sit in panels of three judges, but all the judges in the court may
   decide certain matters together. They are then said to be sitting "en
   banc" (occasionally spelled "in banc"). T H E A D M I N I S T R A T I V
   E O F F I C E O F T H E U . S . C O U R T S 35 equitable Pertaining to
   civil suits in "equity" rather than in "law." In English legal his-
   tory, the courts of "law" could order the payment of damages and could
   afford no other remedy. See damages. A separate court of "equity" could
   order some- one to do something or to cease to do something. See, e.g.,
   injunction. In American jurisprudence, the federal courts have both
   legal and equitable power, but the distinction is still an important
   one. For example, a trial by jury is normally available in "law" cases
   but not in "equity" cases. evidence Information presented in testimony
   or in documents that is used to per- suade the fact finder (judge or
   jury) to decide the case in favor of one side or the other. federal
   public defender f An attorney employed by the federal courts on a
   full-time basis to provide legal defense to defendants who are unable
   to afford counsel. The judi- ciary administers the federal defender
   program pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act. federal question
   jurisdiction Jurisdiction given to federal courts in cases involving
   the interpretation and application of the U.S. Constitution, acts of
   Congress, and treaties. felony A serious crime carrying a penalty of
   more than a year in prison. See also misdemeanor. file To place a paper
   in the official custody of the clerk of court to enter into the files
   or records of a case. grand jury g A body of 16-23 citizens who listen
   to evidence of criminal allegations, which is presented by the
   prosecutors, and determine whether there is probable cause to believe
   an individual committed an offense. See also indictment and U.S.
   attorney. habeas corpus h A writ (court order) that is usually used to
   bring a prisoner before the court to determine the legality of his
   imprisonment. Someone imprisoned in state court proceedings can file a
   petition in federal court for a "writ of habeas corpus," seeking to
   have the federal court review whether the state has vio- lated his or
   her rights under the U.S. Constitution. Federal prisoners can file
   habeas petitions as well. A writ of habeas corpus may also be used to
   bring a person in custody before the court to give testimony or to be
   prosecuted. U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E F E D E R A L C O U R T S G
   1 9 9 9 36 hearsay Statements by a witness who did not see or hear the
   incident in question but heard about it from someone else. Hearsay is
   usually not admissible as evi- dence in court. impeachment i 1. The
   process of calling a witness's testimony into doubt. For example, if
   the attorney can show that the witness may have fabricated portions of
   his testimony, the witness is said to be "impeached;" 2. The
   constitutional pro- cess whereby the House of Representatives may
   "impeach" (accuse of mis- conduct) high officers of the federal
   government, who are then tried by the Senate. indictment The formal
   charge issued by a grand jury stating that there is enough evi- dence
   that the defendant committed the crime to justify having a trial; it is
   used primarily for felonies. See also information. in forma pauperis
   "In the manner of a pauper." Permission given by the court to a person
   to file a case without payment of the required court fees because the
   person cannot pay them. information A formal accusation by a government
   attorney that the defen
