http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/press/release.cfm?p=32E4C377-4554-4EFF-8CC9DE088FF17203

   Press Office - Attorney General Home Press Office - Picture Press
   Office- Grid Press Office - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Press Office Press Office Public Education Public Protection Criminal
   Law Special Features

   Press Office
       Home

   Press
                                  Releases

                                  Consumer
                                 Advisories

                               Current Issues

                                   Tobacco
                               Litigation Site

                                Commonwealth
                                 vs. Lambert

                                    News
                                  Resources

                                    Years
                                  in Review

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]

    Dauphin County Jury Convicts Maryland Man of Environmental Crimes in
                                Pennsylvania

                      Issued: Tuesday, January 29, 2002
                            Contact: 717-787-5211

   HARRISBURG Attorney General Mike Fisher today announced that a Dauphin
   County jury has convicted a Maryland man of environmental crimes
   committed at a Pennsylvania National Guard Armory in Sellersville,
   Bucks County, and other facilities.

   Fisher said Michael Paul Knott, Sr., 48, 5254 Wentz Road, Manchester,
   MD, and his business, American Plumbing and Petroleum Service Company
   Inc. were found guilty of five felony counts of tampering with public
   records or information and two misdemeanor counts of unlawful conduct
   under the Commonwealth's Storage Tank Act.

   Fisher said that Knott, who was under contract with the U.S. Department
   of Military and Veterans Affairs to remove and repair storage tanks,
   instructed unqualified employees to repair a 2,000-gallon gasoline tank
   at the Sellersville Armory. Fisher said the repairs were made with an
   auto repair kit bought from a local auto repair store.

   As a result, Fisher said gasoline leaked from the poorly repaired tank
   into the surrounding soil. To conceal the unlawful activities, Knott
   and his company submitted falsified certifications to the state
   Department of Environmental Protection.

   Additionally, Fisher said Knott was also convicted of allowing gasoline
   and diesel fuel to contaminate a trench at the PennDOT Maintenance
   Facility in Lancaster. He was also convicted of tampering with
   documents for allowing uncertified employees to handle storage tank
   reports at National Guard armories in Lehigh and Lebanon counties and
   at the Bald Eagle State Park in Centre County.

   Fisher said Dauphin County Court of Common Pleas Judge Richard A.
   Lewis, who presided over the three day jury trial which concluded on
   January 10, has scheduled a sentencing hearing for March 6, 2002.

   The case was prosecuted by Deputy Attorney General David J. Raphael of
   Fisher's Enviromental Crimes Section.

   ###

   releases/text/29Jan2002-dauphin_county_jury_convicts_maryland_man_of_en
   vironmental_c.html
