http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/01/20020128-14.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

    Home > News & Policies
                          Printer-Friendly Version

                                                     For Immediate Release
                                             Office of the Press Secretary
                                                          January 28, 2002

   Fact Sheet: Strengthening Medicare

   President Bush believes the Nation has a moral obligation to fulfill
   Medicare's promise of health care security for America's seniors and
   people with disabilities.  Medicare has provided this security to
   millions of Americans since 1965.

   However, as Medicare's lack of prescription drug coverage demonstrates,
   Medicare is not keeping up with the rapid advances in medical care.
   Medical care this century holds the promise of improving and extending
   life through countless innovations.

   To ensure that Medicare continues to provide a secure entitlement for
   access to modern health care, on July 12, 2001, President Bush proposed
   a framework to strengthen Medicare and address its financial security.

   As the President continues to work with Congress to address the threats
   to our Nation's security, he will also work with Congress to enact
   legislation this year to address the problems facing Medicare.

   In his budget and State of the Union address, the President will renew
   his commitment to provide prescription drug coverage in Medicare, based
   on the framework for bipartisan legislation that he proposed in July
   2001.  The President's budget includes $190 billion in net additional
   spending for improving Medicare.

   Many improvements in Medicare, such as full implementation of a
   prescription drug benefit, will take several years to set up.   But
   some needed improvements in Medicare benefits can begin to take effect
   sooner, by building on existing programs.

   The President's budget will include proposals which can be implemented
   quickly as part of legislation to improve Medicare benefits.  The
   proposals are based on ideas that have been proposed previously by
   Democrats and Republicans.  They include:

   -    Building on the proposed Medicare Rx Drug Card to give seniors
   access to drug discounts of 10 to 25 percent, by quickly putting in
   place the structure for a Medicare drug benefit that uses the best
   features of private drug benefits to get lower prices from drug
   manufacturers.

      Implementing a new 'model waiver' program in Medicaid, Pharmacy
   Plus, which will help states use their Medicaid programs to provide
   prescription drug coverage for seniors who need help the most -
   including 365,000 low-income seniors in Illinois who will get new drug
   coverage through a Medicaid waiver approved today.

   - Helping states implement comprehensive drug coverage for low-income
   beneficiaries as quickly as possible, as part of the Medicare drug
   benefit.  The Federal government will pay 90 percent of the costs of
   comprehensive drug coverage for beneficiaries with incomes between 100
   and 150 percent of poverty.

   This will provide comprehensive drug coverage for up to 3 million
   additional low-income Medicare beneficiaries without drug coverage now,
   and even more when the Medicare drug benefit is fully implemented,
   while easing the fiscal pressures on states that already provide
   prescription drug assistance.

   -Providing better private health plan options for Medicare
   beneficiaries who prefer them by directing almost $4 billion to help
   correct chronic underpayments to Medicare's private plans and to create
   new incentives for popular coverage options like 'point of service'
   plans that are essentially unavailable to Medicare beneficiaries today.

   -Giving seniors access to two additional Medigap (supplemental
   coverage) plans, with updated benefits that provide better protection
   against high medical expenses and assistance with prescription drugs at
   a more affordable cost than the current standard Medigap plans.

   I.   PRESIDENT'S FRAMEWORK FOR STRENGTHENING MEDICARE

   Medicare needs better benefits, including a prescription drug benefit,
   like modern health insurance plans.  Medicare's outdated benefit
   package does not cover prescription drugs and does not provide timely,
   consistent coverage for many modern technologies and preventive
   treatments.

   It does not protect beneficiaries against the high costs of treating
   serious illnesses, and it imposes unnecessary regulatory burdens on
   providers and patients.

   As a result, seniors often do not receive appropriate, up-to-date
   treatment for their health problems. Most other insurance programs,
   including the program available to all Federal employees, provide
   reliable options for getting modern health insurance benefits.
   However, Medicare's options are actually becoming more limited.

   The President believes that we must give seniors better options.  He
   also believes that any improvements in Medicare should not force
   changes on today's seniors who are satisfied with their current
   coverage.

   Medicare is not financially secure for the retirement of the Baby Boom.
   The 77 million Americans who will be in Medicare by 2030 are counting
   on Medicare's promised benefits.

   Yet Medicare's fund for hospital insurance will face cash flow deficits
   beginning in 2016, and Medicare's fund for its other benefits will
   likely require a doubling of beneficiary premiums and of Medicare's
   claims on general revenues to remain solvent over the next 10 years.
   Medicare's bifurcated accounting disguises the true fiscal health of
   Medicare and makes it difficult to plan ahead.

   President Bush has worked with members of Congress from both parties to
   develop a framework for a modernized Medicare program and for keeping
   Medicare's benefits secure.  Modernized Medicare includes an improved
   traditional fee-for-service plan, and improved health insurance plan
   options.  The President's framework for bipartisan legislation includes
   the following principles:
   -    All seniors should have the option of a subsidized prescription
   drug benefit as part of modernized Medicare.
   -    Modernized Medicare should provide better coverage for preventive
   care and serious illnesses.
   -    Today's beneficiaries and those approaching retirement should have
   the option of keeping the traditional plan with no changes.
   -    Medicare should provide better health insurance options, like
   those available to all Federal employees.
   -    Medicare legislation should strengthen the program's long-term
   financial security.
   -    The management of the government Medicare plan should be
   strengthened so that it can provide better care for seniors.
   -    Medicare's regulations and administrative procedures should be
   updated and streamlined, while the instances of fraud and abuse should
   be reduced.
   -    Medicare should encourage high-quality health care for all
   seniors.

   For more information:
   www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/07/medicare.pdf II.  IMMEDIATE
   ASSISTANCE FOR SENIORS

   AS PART OF LEGISLATION TO STRENGTHEN MEDICARE

   Medicare Rx Drug Card Program

   Approximately 10 million seniors and persons with disabilities have no
   prescription drug coverage.  As a result, even though they are among
   the heaviest users of prescription drugs, seniors often must pay full
   retail price for their prescriptions.

   Most privately-insured Americans pay significantly lower prices,
   because their private insurance plans allow them to use the purchasing
   power of large groups to get discounts from manufacturers.

   The President believes that Medicare should help seniors get access to
   these tools right away, even before a prescription drug benefit is
   fully implemented. Using competitive tools to get lower prices for
   drugs and better pharmacy services is a common feature of major
   Democratic and Republican proposals to provide a prescription drug
   benefit.

   In conjunction with his framework for Medicare legislation, the
   President announced an initiative to create a Medicare-endorsed Drug
   Card Program, to help seniors get lower drug prices right away.

   The Drug Card will not only provide some short-term relief for seniors;
   it will also give the Medicare program needed experience in
   administering a Medicare prescription drug benefit. Seniors' groups
   such as the AARP support the Drug Card Program, calling it 'a positive
   first step toward a prescription drug benefit.'

   The implementation of the drug card has been blocked temporarily by an
   injunction from United States District Court for the District of
   Columbia.  However, the Court has stayed the injunction while the
   Department of Health and Human Services submits a revised drug card
   proposal for public comment.

   The improved proposal reflects comments and creative new ideas that
   followed the initial announcement of the card.  For example, several
   drug manufacturers have announced new programs that provide drug
   discounts for low-income seniors, illustrating the kind of assistance
   that the drug card will help make more widely available.

   The formal 'notice and comment'  process on the proposed drug card will
   permit further improvements in the program before it is implemented.

   Seniors today have some access to voluntary discount cards that provide
   pharmacy discounts of about 10 percent on average. Privately-insured
   Americans regularly achieve additional savings of between 2 percent to
   35 percent on brand name drugs through manufacturer discounts.

   We expect that the Medicare Drug Card will help seniors get access to
   some of the manufacturer discounts achieved by insured drug card
   programs, and the discounts will increase as prescription drug coverage
   is phased in, for the following reasons:

   -    The initiative proposes that card sponsors secure manufacturer
   rebates, and pass them through to pharmacies and beneficiaries,
   resulting in lower prices.

   -    The initiative would provide education programs targeted to
   Medicare beneficiaries about generic substitution, drug utilization,
   pharmacist services and other ways to lower prescription drug spending
   and get higher-quality pharmacy services.

   -    The initiative would allow Medicare beneficiaries to pool together
   to use their buying power to get better prices from drug manufacturers.
    Drug Coverage for Low-Income Seniors through Pharmacy Plus Model
   Waiver Program

   A number of states have asked for Federal approval to use the Medicaid
   program to extend drug-only coverage to senior citizens and people with
   disabilities who are not otherwise eligible for Medicaid.

   States are also concerned about rising drug costs in Medicaid and have
   been exploring common private-sector cost-control mechanisms, like
   preferred drug lists, as a way of moderating drug spending.   Medicaid
   law and federal regulations, however, have discouraged the use of these
   management tools.

   The Administration has developed a model Pharmacy Plus drug waiver that
   states can use to provide drug-only coverage to low-income Medicare
   beneficiaries through Medicaid.

   These waivers will permit states to provide drug coverage and implement
   private-sector benefit management techniques in their Medicaid drug
   programs. Although it will incur costs for a new population of
   individuals, the model waiver program is budget neutral because it will
   provide more cost-effective drug coverage for persons with Medicare and
   other coverage who might otherwise have periods of eligibility for
   Medicaid.

   Details depend on the characteristics of state Medicaid programs, with
   states usually able to extend drug coverage up to around 200% of
   poverty.

   A newly-approved waiver for Illinois will now provide drug coverage to
   365,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the state, indicating the potential
   for this program to provide assistance now to seniors who most need it.

   Medicare Low-Income Drug Assistance

   The President's Medicare Low-Income Drug Assistance proposal would make
   it possible to quickly phase in comprehensive drug coverage for
   Medicare beneficiaries up to 150 percent of poverty as part of Medicare
   drug benefit legislation, even before the Medicare benefit is fully
   phased in.

   States have the option to expand comprehensive drug coverage to
   Medicare beneficiaries up to 100 percent of poverty at current Medicaid
   matching rates.  As an incentive to states to further expand coverage
   to 150 percent of poverty (approximately $17,000 for a family of two),
   the Federal government would pay 90 percent of the cost of expanding
   drug benefits from 100 to 150 percent of poverty.

   States would be responsible for the remaining 10 percent of the cost.
   This proposal is expected to lead to coverage for up to 3 million
   Medicare beneficiaries who would otherwise not receive coverage until
   the Medicare drug benefit is fully implemented, which will require
   several years.

   In addition, states that already provide comprehensive drug coverage to
   low-income beneficiaries would be eligible for the Federal funding,
   easing the fiscal pressures on states that provide these benefits.

   Federal support for comprehensive drug coverage for low-income
   beneficiaries is a part of all major Democratic and Republican drug
   benefit proposals, and is part of the President's framework for
   strengthening Medicare.

   Because states already have mechanisms in place to provide assistance
   to low-income Medicare beneficiaries, this proposal permits relatively
   quick implementation of drug coverage for the beneficiaries who need
   help the most.

   States would also have the flexibility to provide the comprehensive
   drug benefit using the infrastructure of the Medicare-endorsed
   prescription drug card program and any other Medicare infrastructure
   for drug assistance as soon as it is available.

   The budgetary cost of this program is approximately $1.2 billion in FY
   2003 and $8 billion in fiscal years 2003-2005. Federal support for
   comprehensive drug coverage for low-income beneficiaries would continue
   even after the Medicare drug benefit is fully implemented, and would be
   integrated with it.

   Essential Additional Funding to Sustain Private Health Insurance Plans

   The President's framework for strengthening Medicare calls for a fair
   payment system for private plan options for Medicare beneficiaries,
   like the system that provides reliable health insurance options to all
   Federal employees in the Federal Employees Health Benefits program.

   Private plans have long been the preferred choice of 6 million Medicare
   beneficiaries.  This is not surprising, because the private plans allow
   beneficiaries to receive more up-to-date benefits than are available
   under traditional Medicare.

   The enhanced benefits can include prescription drugs, disease
   management programs, and better preventive care services - benefits
   widely available to the nonelderly and to members of Congress.
   Frequently, private plans have provided much lower cost sharing for
   required Medicare benefits as well.

   Action is needed now to ensure that these benefits remain available to
   Medicare beneficiaries, because the current 'Medicare+Choice' system
   for paying private plans is not giving beneficiaries the options they
   deserve.

   Since the new payment system was implemented in 1998, hundreds of
   Medicare+Choice organizations have left the program or reduced their
   service areas, adversely affecting coverage for hundreds of thousands
   of beneficiaries - reversing what had been an upward trend in private
   plan availability and enrollment.

   In addition, the remaining plans are offering less generous drug
   benefits and other coverage. Moreover, 'open network'  plans like
   Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs) and 'point of service'  plans
   have become popular among privately covered individuals, yet only two
   PPOs participate in a few counties in the entire Medicare program.

   Annual increases in Medicare+Choice funding have failed to reflect
   rising health care costs, leading to unreliable options and reduced
   benefits for seniors.

   Specifically, between 1998-2002, Medicare+Choice rates increased at 2
   or 3 percent per year, or only 11.5 percent overall, in counties where
   the majority of Medicare+Choice enrollees live.

   This compares with increases in Medicare fee-for-service (government)
   plan spending by over 21 percent and medical cost inflation of 9 to 10
   percent per year and the same time period.

   Because payments to private plans do not reflect conditions in Medicare
   and the health care marketplace, private health plans cannot meet
   beneficiaries' needs.

   The President's budget proposes to take urgently needed steps toward
   the equitable payment system for private plans proposed in the
   President's framework for strengthening Medicare.  The proposal will
   modify the Medicare+Choice (M+C) payment formula to better reflect
   actual healthcare cost increase and allocate additional resources in
   2003 to counties that have received only minimum updates over the last
   few years.

   This would make it possible for more private plans to remain in
   Medicare until the new payment system is phased in.  Proposals to help
   sustain private plans in Medicare are supported by both Democrats and
   Republicans.

   Under the President's proposal, all plans will receive payment
   increases equivalent to national fee-for-service cost growth minus 0.5
   percent.

   For 2003, plans in counties that have been receiving the minimum
   updates (2 to 3 percent) in the last 4 years will receive a 6.5 percent
   increase in payments.  The budget also proposes incentive payments for
   new types of plans that enter Medicare+Choice to encourage a variety of
   new managed care plans (e.g.,  PPOs) to participate in Medicare+Choice.

   The augmented payments to improve beneficiaries' options would cost
   $3.7 billion between 2003-05 and would permit about 7 percent more
   Medicare beneficiaries to join Medicare+Choice plans.

   Additional Medigap Options for Affordable Protection Against High
   Out-of-Pocket Costs

   Medicare's statutory benefits have enormous gaps - copayments as high
   as 50% on many services, poor coverage for preventive care, and no
   limits on out-of-pocket spending.

   For this reason, nearly all seniors in the fee-for-service (government)
   plan have supplemental insurance, mainly through Medigap.  But the cost
   of supplemental coverage is rising much more rapidly than the cost of
   Medicare, and the 'standard' Medigap plans have barely been updated in
   more than a decade.  As a result, seniors face important problems in
   getting the coverage they need:

   -    Limited drug coverage:  The three existing Medigap plans that
   cover prescription drugs offer an unattractive drug benefit coupled
   with a rich package of medical benefits.  The richness of the non-drug
   package and the cost of drugs make the plans prohibitively expensive to
   most beneficiaries. Fewer than 500,000 beneficiaries receive a Medigap
   drug benefit today.

   -    First dollar coverage:  All of the existing Medigap plans pay the
   up front costs of care for beneficiaries, including the first dollar
   spent on care. Research has demonstrated that first dollar coverage,
   defined as the absence of any upfront copays, coinsurances, or
   deductibles paid by the beneficiary, results in increased utilization
   and higher costs.

   -    Antiquated benefit packages:  The plans have been the same since
   1990 and have not kept up with the evolution in the Medicare program
   over the last decade.  The concentration of enrollment in only three to
   four plans suggests that the other available plans are not providing
   the range of options that beneficiaries need.

   The President's framework for strengthening Medicare includes updated,
   more affordable Medigap options for beneficiaries who choose the
   improved Medicare benefit package. Beneficiaries who wish to keep their
   current benefits with no changes would be able to do so.

   To provide more affordable Medigap options before the improved benefit
   package becomes available, the President's Budget proposes the addition
   of two new Medigap plans to the existing ten standardized plans.

   The new plans will include prescription drug assistance, protection
   against high out-of-pocket costs, and buydown of most of the cost of
   Medicare deductibles and copays. The idea of making updated Medigap
   plans available has long had bipartisan support.

   For example, President Clinton proposed to update Medigap with
   supplemental coverage that included reasonable limits on cost sharing.
    The new plans will provide new opportunities for savings for
   beneficiaries, with a one-time opt in for current beneficiaries.

   The new plans would also provide modest budgetary savings, due to the
   elimination of first-dollar coverage.

   Printer-Friendly Version

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
