http://www.dnfsb.gov/faqs/index.html

   Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board: Help/FAQs spacer
   spacer
   Home | Help/FAQs
   Help/FAQs

        1. Access to Documents
        2. How to obtain records and information from DNFSB
        3. About DNFSB's Information Systems
        4. Access under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
        spacer
        Access to Documents

     Download PDF Download PDF :
                  IMPORTANT NOTICE: Access to Documents (8K)
        How to obtain records and information from DNFSB
        There are four ways to obtain records and information:
         1. Visit our Public Reading Room (PRR)
            DNFSB maintains a PRR for the purpose of providing easy access to a
            substantial portion of the Board's records.
            * Location: 625 Indiana Avenue, NW, Washington, DC
            * Public Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
            * Assistance and Resources: Librarians are on hand to assist users
            in finding documents. A computer terminal is also available to
            search the Board's public electronic files. Copies can be made on
            the premises for a nominal charge.
            As a visitor to the PPR, you are entitled to:
            * Access posted Recommendations, notices of meetings, and personnel
            vacancy announcements.
            * Review any of the 50,000+ documents in the DNFSB Library. The
            Library staff will provide you with a subject printout covering
            your areas of interest from which you can make selections for full
            text.
            * Receive, free of charge, DNFSB's Annual Reports, Recommendations,
            technical reports, and trip reports. If needed, all other material
            will be provided to you at minimal cost, using the DNFSB's current
            Fee Schedule. DNFSB's copying fees are posted on the Internet home
            page and in the PRR.
            * Expect to be received with courtesy and respect. Knowledgeable
            staff will be helpful, and we will work with you to help define
            your areas of interest. You will be helped immediately and will
            receive service that is responsive to your needs. We strive to
            provide "same day" research and duplication service for documents
            currently in our public files.
         2. Access the DNFSB Web site
            This constantly expanding resource provides rapid access to many
            important Board documents, such as recommendations to the
            Department of Energy (DOE), annual reports to Congress, and
            technical studies. Links are provided to many other Web sites at
            DOE and other locations. Upcoming Board public meetings are posted
            to this site and in the Federal Register.
         3. Contact DNFSB
            You can make a direct request for documents to DNFSB using e-mail
            or telephone. See Contact Us for more information.
         4. Get on our mailing list
            You are entitled to be placed on the our mailing list to receive
            new Board Recommendations, technical reports, Annual Reports to
            Congress, notices of public meetings, and special announcements.

     About DNFSB's Information Systems
   DNFSB maintains two public and seven confidential systems of records
   listed in the Government Information Locator Service (GILS). The two
   systems available to the public are:
    1. Image Retrieval Information System (IRIS)
    2. Contract Deliverables

   The confidential systems are Privacy Act Systems of Records:
    1. Personnel Security Files
    2. Personnel Files
    3. Administrative and Travel Files
    4. Drug Testing Program Files
    5. Personnel Radiation Exposure Files
    6. DNFSB Staff Resume Book
    7. Supervisory Files

   The IRIS system is a large database containing Board, DOE, and DOE
   contractor documents, as well as other reference documents pertaining
   to Board activities and to facilities under the Board's jurisdiction.
   Search assistance is available from librarians in the PRR. Access to
   the other systems is controlled by the Privacy Act. The Board's Privacy
   Act rules are found at 10 CFR 1705.
   Access Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
   DNFSB's FOIA rules are found at 10 CFR 1703. These rules, along with
   the DNFSB's FOIA Report for 1998, can be accessed from the DNFSB Web
   site, reviewed in the PRR, or requested by mail from the Board's
   Information Officer.
   We will begin processing your FOIA request immediately upon receipt.
   Every effort will be made to minimize your cost for the search and to
   respond well within statutory deadlines. Most document requests are
   filled within a few days.


   Return to Top

   spacer

   DNFSB Home | About DNFSB | Public Documents | Employment | Contact Us |
   Help/FAQs | Resources | Privacy | FirstGov | FOIA

   spacer
   spacer
   spacer
   spacer
