http://www.tva.gov/retireeportal/destinations/xmas01.htm

   skip to main content TVA Logo Tennessee Valley Authority
                        Site Help Contact Us
   Search and Go Button __________________

   TVA Home About TVA Power System Environmental Stewardship River System
   Economic Development Investor Resources News & Media



   Benefits Volunteers Lifestyles News Return to retirees main



   Destinations

   SEASONAL CELEBRATIONS
   Christmas in the Valley

   At Yuletide even the tiniest hamlet gets to deck itself out in
   glittering finery and show off its local talent. Let these Tennessee
   Valley towns dazzle your eyes and warm your heart as you share in their
   seasonal celebrations.

   By Maryellen Kennedy Duckett

   photo of christmas wreath If you’d like to do a bit of traveling this
   Christmas but don’t want to go too far from home, here’s a sampling of
   some local holiday celebrations across the Tennessee Valley. You could
   make short day or overnight trips to take part in these seasonal
   activities, which are listed for each week in December. There’s also a
   New Year’s Eve celebration to round out the holidays. These aren’t
   big-ticket extravaganzas, just down-home events that celebrate the
   simple pleasures and wonders of the season.

   Starting in the western part of the Valley, our holiday tour takes you
   to Holly Springs and Tupelo, Mississippi; Athens, Columbia, Franklin,
   Mt. Pleasant, Norris, and Spring Hill, Tennessee; Fort Payne, Alabama;
   and Abingdon, Virginia.

   December 1-7
   Begin your Christmas travels in northern Mississippi with the Holly
   Springs Holiday Tour of Historic Homes on December 1 and 2. Houses,
   churches, and storefronts in this postcard-perfect historic town are
   tastefully decked out in their seasonal finery. From Holly Springs,
   head over to Tupelo and take a jaunt through the city’s Audubon
   subdivision for the best residential holiday displays. Tupelo’s annual
   Christmas parade struts its stuff downtown on December 1, and on
   December 7, 8, and 9 the First Evangelical Church stages a local
   favorite, the Tupelo Christmas Pageant. This year’s theme is “It’s
   Christmas,” and the free event features adult and children’s choirs of
   80 voices each. The Saturday show is booked solid, but tickets are
   available for Friday and Sunday.

   photo of christmas ornaments December 8-14
   Move on up to middle Tennessee for two old-fashioned holiday events.
   The Maury County communities of Spring Hill, Mt. Pleasant, and Columbia
   join forces to offer a Tennessee Plantation Christmas Tour on December
   7 to 9. You can visit 11 historic homes decorated in antebellum style
   and enjoy plays, high tea, and other holiday entertainment. Tickets are
   $18 in advance and $20 at the door.

   After the tours, get a taste of Victorian England at the annual
   “Dickens of a Christmas” event in Franklin, Tennessee on December 8 and
   9. Most of the shops in the historic downtown were built during the
   late 1890s to early 1900s and have been lovingly restored to their
   original appearance. Horse-drawn carriages clip-clop through the
   streets, and townsfolk in traditional Victorian costume stroll along
   the sidewalks.

   Shop windows display more costumed characters and demonstrations of
   such crafts as spinning, stained-glass making, and basket-weaving. The
   aroma of roast chestnuts and hot cider fills the air, along with the
   sweet sounds of carolers and handbell choirs. There are also holiday
   musical performances, a Saturday-afternoon high tea, and plenty of
   opportunities for holiday shopping. The event culminates in a “town
   sing” of traditional carols, followed by a candlelight procession
   beginning in the public square at 4:45 p.m. on Sunday, December 9.

   December 15-22
   North Alabama celebrates the season all month long, but some special
   activities are planned for this week throughout DeKalb County. The town
   of Fort Payne presents its annual Nativity pageant on December 14 and
   15 at the National Guard Armory.

   This popular event, sponsored by several churches representing
   different denominations, features live donkeys, goats, and sheep, along
   with shepherds to watch over them. Three wise men arrive by camel
   train, and people wearing the national dress of countries around the
   world gather to sing Christmas songs. The pageant, which is free,
   begins at 6:30 p.m. Afterward, drive around town to check out the
   holiday displays vying for honors in the Fort Payne Lighting Contest.
   Judges will be canvassing the streets, looking for homes and businesses
   with the best seasonal decorations.

   painting of barn in snow December 23-28
   Travel north this week for a glimpse of Christmas past at the Museum of
   Appalachia in Norris, Tennessee. During the monthlong Christmas in Old
   Appalachia celebration, the museum’s 70-acre village re-creates the
   atmosphere of a simple, old-time holiday with cranberry garlands, pine
   wreaths, and other natural decorations. The pioneer cabins are decked
   out in frontier fashion, and ornaments made by local schoolchildren
   brighten the log schoolhouse. Old-time musicians play traditional
   holiday tunes by the fireside from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

   Next, head up Interstate 81 toward southwestern Virginia for Christmas
   in historic Abingdon. Seasonal events include holiday concerts, open
   houses, and beautifully decorated businesses and homes in the town’s
   20-block historic district. There are also plenty of galleries and
   stores in case you need to do last-minute shopping.

   New Year’s Eve
   Close out December and welcome in the new year at a small-town
   celebration bursting with holiday cheer and patriotic pride. The folks
   in Athens, Tennessee, have been flocking to their community New Year’s
   Eve bash for years, and with its theme “The Spirit of America,” the
   2001 version promises to be more stirring and heartfelt than ever. The
   town chamber of commerce has produced a special poster for the event,
   picturing police and fire vehicles and personnel, local schoolchildren
   carrying flags, and the message “Athens Remembers.”

   The festivities, which take place in the square around the courthouse
   downtown from 10 p.m. until midnight, include music, fireworks, street
   dancing, sweet treats, and even a ball drop à la Times Square. There
   are certainly fancier and more expensive ways to usher in 2002, but if
   the simple pleasures are what you’re searching for this season, New
   Year’s Eve in Athens is the place to be.

   top of page




      Destinations Archive
      Visit our archive page to discover choice Destinations from past
      issues.

   photo of trees coated with ice

   Valley snows may not pile high in December, but nature can still create
   a holiday wonderland.

      Seasonal Celebrations
      What: Regional events that mark the Christmas season

      Where: Throughout the Tennessee Valley

      For more information:
      Holly Springs: 662-252-2515
      www.visithollyspings.org

      Tupelo: 662-844-9960
      www.tupelo.net

      Maury County: 888-852-1860 or 931-381-7176

      Franklin: 615-591-8500
      www.historicfranklin.com

      Fort Payne: 256-634-4025
      www.tourdekalb.com

      Norris: 865-494-7680.
      www.museumofappalachia.com

      Abingdon: 800-435-3440 or 570-676-3636
      www.abingdon.com

      Athens: 423-745-0334
      www.athenschamber.org






   left corner image

      Contact Us | Search | Legal Notices | Privacy Policy | Employment
       TVA Home | About TVA | Power | Environment | Rivers | Economic
                       Development | Investors | News

   right corner image
