http://www.boc.ca.gov/DShaw.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   STAFF PROFILES

   David Shaw, Deputy Executive Officer
   Administration

   David R. Shaw, Deputy Executive Director of Administration with the
   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, former
   Executive Director of the Office of Criminal Justice Planning (OCJP),
   former Chief Deputy Director of OCJP, served as Chief Legal Counsel to
   the California Assembly Committee on Public Safety during the 1995/96
   Legislative Session. He worked as a Deputy District Attorney with the
   Sacramento County District Attorney's Office from 1987-1995 and was
   cross-designated as a Special Assistant United States Attorney for the
   Eastern District of California from 1994 to 1995. His last assignment
   for Sacramento County was as the Lead Deputy in the Career Criminal
   Prosecution Unit from 1992-1995.

   Mr. Shaw served as a reserve police officer and firearms instructor
   with the City of Ione Police Department from 1981 to 1995 and with City
   of Jackson Police Department from 1995 to the present.

   Mr. Shaw is an Adjunct Professor of Law at McGeorge School of Law and a
   member of the McGeorge Alumni Advisory Committee to the Governmental
   Affairs Program. He is also a member of the Sacramento Federalist
   Society and past treasurer of the Sacramento County Attorney's
   Association.

   Mr. Shaw earned a bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice, with Honors
   from California State University, Sacramento in 1982 and a Juris
   Doctorate degree, with Distinction, from McGeorge School of Law in
   1987.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
