http://www.highered.nysed.gov/kiap/scholarships/pos.htm

   Picture of the NYS Education Department seal.     nysed1.gif (8236
   bytes)

   Office of Higher Education - K-16 Initiatives and Access Programs

   [rainban.gif]

              THE REGENTS PROFESSIONAL OPPORTUNITY SCHOLARSHIP

   Bulletin of Information for Candidates 2002 Competition Regents
   Professional Opportunity Scholarship Program (Word)

   Bulletin of Information for Candidates 2002 Competition Regents
   Professional Opportunity Scholarship Program (pdf)

   Two hundred and twenty awards are available annually to New York State
   residents who are economically disadvantaged and/or a member of an
   underrepresented minority group, beginning or engaged in an approved
   program leading to a degree in a profession licensed by the Regents.
   Award winners receive up to $5,000 per year, for a maximum of four
   academic years (unless enrolled in a program recognized by the Regents
   as requiring more than four years to complete). Scholarship recipients
   must agree to work in New York State in their chosen profession or
   field for one year for each annual award received. Deadline for receipt
   of application is May 1, 2002.
   »   Eligibility
   »   Definition of Economic Disadvantaged
   »   Selection Criteria
   »   Eligible Professions
   »   Service Agreement

   Eligibility

   Applicants must meet the following requirements:

     Be enrolled or plan to enroll full time in a New York State approved
     postsecondary institution in one of the designated
     licensure-qualifying programs during the 2002-2003 academic year,
     and

     Qualify in one of these priorities:

   Priority One An economically disadvantaged member of a minority group
   historically underrepresented. (For purposes of this scholarship,
   underrepresented minorities include residents who are Black, Hispanic,
   Native American or Alaskan Native.) or
   Priority Two A member of a minority group historically
   underrepresented, or
   Priority Three A student enrolled in or a graduate of one of the State
   sponsored opportunity programs, and

   Be a legal resident of New York State for at least one year prior to
   September first of the award year. A legal resident is a student who:
     * Maintains an actual residence in New York State and considers New
       York their permanent home.  and
     * Is a citizen of the United States, or
     * Is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United
       States, or
     * Is an individual of a class of refugee paroled by the attorney
       general of the United States under parole authority pertaining to
       the admission of aliens to the United States.

   Definition of Economic Disadvantaged
    1. A student is considered economically disadvantaged if he or she is
       a member of:

     a household supported by one parent if dependent, by the student or
     by a spouse if independent, whose total annual income is not more
     than the applicable amount listed in the table below; or

     a household supported by more than one worker (parents if dependent,
     student and spouse if independent) in which the total annual income
     does not exceed the applicable amount listed in the table below by
     more than $2,700; or

     a household supported by one worker (parent if dependent, student if
     independent) who is the sole support of a one-parent family in which
     the total annual income does not exceed the applicable amount listed
     in the table below by more than $2,700.

     The number of members of a household is the number of individuals
     living in the student's residence who are economically dependent on
     the income supporting the student.

    2. Income Table for Economically Disadvantaged

Number of Members in Household Including Head of Household

                                                                                     Total 2001 Income

                                   1

                                                                                          $10,750

                                   2

                                                                                          $18,000

                                   3

                                                                                          $20,800

                                   4

                                                                                          $25,900

                                   5

                                                                                          $30,700

                                   6

                                                                                          $36,000

                                   7

                                                                                          $40,150

         plus $4,050 for each household member in excess of 7

    3. Exceptions

     Reference to the family income scale need not be made if the student
     falls into one of the following categories, and documentation is
     available:

         a. the student's family is the recipient of aid to dependent
            children or family assistance program aid or home relief or
            safety net assistance through the New York State Department of
            Social Services or the New York State Office of Temporary and
            Disability Assistance or a county department of social
            services; or is the recipient of family day-care payments
            through the New York State Department of Social Services or
            the Office of Children and Family Assistance or a county
            department of social services;

                                         or

         b. the student is living with foster parents who do not provide
            support for college, and no monies are provided from the
            natural parents;

                                         or

         c. the student is a ward of the state or a county.

    4. Independent Students

     For purposes of these scholarships, an independent student is one
     who:

    a. is 24 years of age or older by December 31 of the program year; or

    b. meets one of the following requirements:

     is an orphan or ward of the court (In the Federal definition, a
     student is considered independent if he or she is a ward of the
     court or was a ward of the court until the individual reached the
     age of eighteen.); or

     is a veteran of the Armed Forces of the United States, who has
     engaged in active duty in the United States Army, Navy, Air Force,
     Marines, or Coast Guard, and who was released under a condition
     other than dishonorable; or

     is a married individual; or

     has legal dependents other than a spouse; or

     is a student for whom an opportunity program and financial aid
     administrator have made a documented determination of independence
     due to other unusual circumstances.

    Selection Criteria

   New York State law requires awards to be made in the following order of
   priority:

   First Priority Will be given to any candidate who is economically
   disadvantaged and who is a member of a minority group historically
   underrepresented. For the purposes of this scholarship program
   underrepresented minorities include legal residents of New York State
   who are Black, Hispanic, Native American or Alaskan Native.
   Second Priority Will be given to any candidate who is a member of an
   historically underrepresented minority group.
   Third Priority Will be given to any candidate who is enrolled in or a
   graduate of one of the State sponsored opportunity programs.

   Eligible Professions

   Eligible professions appear in each degree level from associate to
   doctorate. Listed below are the professional fields for which
   scholarships will be given in the 2002-2003 competition arranged by
   degree level. Click on the level you are interested in for the eligible
   professions at that level.

   Associate degree programs     available at 2-year community colleges and
                                 some 4-year colleges
   Baccalaureate degree programs available at 4-year colleges/universities
                                 only (no community colleges)
   Masters degree programs       graduate programs (beyond the 4-year
                                 baccalaureate degree)
   Doctoral degree programs      graduate programs (beyond the master's degree
                                 level)
   Doctor of Law programs        for a law degree after completion of a
                                 baccalaureate degree.

          Service Agreement:

   Scholarship recipients must agree to work in New York State in the
   profession for which they received their award, at a rate of 12 months
   for each annual payment received. Employment must be full time and
   consist of activities for which licensure is required in a nonexempt
   setting. Teaching in a postsecondary program, registered by the State
   Education Department as licensure qualifying, in the profession for
   which the scholarship was awarded and for which the holder is licensed
   is also permissible.
   Within one year of completion of professional training, recipients must
   forward, for approval, a letter outlining intended service and
   identifying the proposed job title including the name and address of
   the employer to: The New York State Higher Education Services
   Corporation, 99 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12255.

   Award recipients will not be eligible for further payments if they
   cancel or withdraw the agreement to practice before completing the
   professional program. If a recipient fails to comply with the service
   commitment requirements, the full amount of the scholarship monies plus
   penalty and interest will be subject to repayment within five years.



          Print Regents Professional Opportunity Scholarship Application
          (pdf)
          Back to Scholarship Home Page | Order an Application Packet
          Return to KIAP Home | Return to OHE Home
          [rainban.gif]

          URL:  http:www.highered/kiap/scholarships/pos.htm
          Last Updated January 24, 2002
          Hit Counter
