http://www.fnal.gov/pub/news02/hepap_pressrelease.html

                          Fermi National Laboratory

   High-Energy Physics Advisory Panel Unveils 20-Year Plan for U.S.
   Particle Physics
   Washington, D.C-The High Energy Physics Advisory Panel to the
   Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation today (January
   28) made public the report of the HEPAP Subpanel on Long Range Planning
   for U.S. High Energy Physics. The report, which HEPAP transmitted today
   to DOE and NSF, outlines a plan to maintain U.S. leadership in the
   field of high-energy physics for the next 20 years.

   The 22-member Subpanel, chaired by physicists Jonathan Bagger, of The
   Johns Hopkins University, and Barry Barish, of Caltech, spent a year of
   information gathering and consultation with hundreds of U.S. particle
   physicists from across the nation, as well as foreign colleagues,
   before presenting the report to HEPAP. In transmitting the plan, the
   Panel's chair, physicist Fred Gilman of Carnegie Mellon University,
   focused on the scientific opportunities now emerging for the field of
   particle physics.

   "High-energy physics is entering an extraordinary period of discovery,"
   Gilman said. "Are there extra dimensions of space? What is the dark
   matter that makes up the majority of our universe? What unknown
   mechanism gives mass to particles? Solving these mysteries will be an
   epochal chapter in the history of science. Physicists now have within
   reach the technology and understanding to find the answers. We believe
   the HEPAP recommendations provide a road map to allow U.S. physicists
   to remain among the world's leaders during the era of discovery that
   lies ahead over the next twenty years."

   Among the report's principal recommendations is that a high-energy,
   high-luminosity, linear particle accelerator should be designed, built
   and operated as a fully international collaboration.

   "The world physics community agrees that a linear collider is the right
   choice for the next major physics facility," Barish said. "There are
   initial proposals to build such a collider in Germany, Japan and in the
   United States. Although there are many steps to be taken to decide
   design, funding and collaboration issues before such a project can go
   forward, our subpanel strongly recommends that U.S. scientists
   participate in this initiative wherever it is built. We propose that a
   steering group be set up immediately to coordinate U.S. participation
   in a linear collider."

   The panel further recommends that the United States prepare to bid to
   host the initiative.

   "Building the linear collider would bring one of the great scientific
   projects of our time to the United States," said Johns Hopkins' Bagger,
   "together with its associated intellectual, educational, technological
   and economic benefits."

   The panel estimates that the cost of constructing the 30-km (18-mile)
   long collider in the United States would be $5 to $7 billion, with
   one-third of the financing coming from international contributions and
   a further $1 to $2 billion from realignment in the current U.S.
   particle physics program.

   The report calls for a new planning mechanism for setting priorities in
   the field of particle physics. It proposes the creation of a Particle
   Physics Project Prioritization Panel, dubbed "P5," to assess and
   prioritize proposed experiments and other research initiatives to
   ensure the highest scientific return on public funding for particle
   physics.

   The HEPAP roadmap reflects the need for a variety of techniques and
   experimental approaches to achieve scientific goals, physicists said.

   "Particle physics requires forefront accelerators at the energy and
   luminosity frontiers," said University of Oregon physicist Jim Brau, an
   experimenter at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. "However our
   plan also recognizes the need for innovative experiments in space and
   deep underground. A balanced approach that strengthens the increasingly
   important links to astrophysics, cosmology and nuclear physics is the
   foundation for a future of scientific discovery in our field."

   The report stresses that a strong university program is fundamental to
   the future vitality of High Energy physics.

   "Universities train the next generation of scientists, providing a
   platform for education and outreach, and the opportunity to connect
   with scientists in other fields," said Cornell University physicist
   Persis Drell, a member of the Subpanel. "Maintaining the interest and
   motivation of young Americans in the physical sciences is an investment
   in the nation's future."

   The HEPAP report presents a focused way forward for U.S. particle
   physics, members of the Subpanel said. Its recommendations are long
   term, underlining the need for careful coordination and planning in a
   field characterized by global partnerships and in which most
   experiments begin taking data years after they were originally
   conceived.

   In an accompanying letter to DOE and NSF, HEPAP Chair Gilman stressed
   the importance of basic science for national security and economic
   strength, but acknowledged the challenges that particle physicists will
   face in carrying out their plan.

   "Responding to this plan will take resources, creativity and
   determination, together with the commitment of the American people and
   the government." Gilman wrote. "But this is not the time to shy away
   from challenges, especially when the benefits from success are clear.
   By making a renewed commitment to our scientific and technical base, we
   will be repaid by strengthened international cooperation and a new
   level of U.S. leadership and achievement in science and technology
   together with the benefits that flow from them."

   The Report of the DOE/NSF High-Energy Physics Advisory Panel Subpanel
   on Long Range Planning for U.S. High-Energy Physics, and the
   accompanying letter from HEPAP Chair Fred Gilman, are available online
   at http://bohr.pha.jhu.edu/~bagger/report.pdf

   Media Contact: Fred Gilman, 412-268-8848 gilman@cmuhep2.phys.cmu.edu

                  last modified 1/28/2002   email Fermilab

       [footerbar.gif]
       Security, Privacy, Legal Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
