http://helms.senate.gov/Biography/biography.html


   [clearpixel.gif] [caphome.jpg]

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                                   BIOGRAPHY
   [clearpixel.gif] [caphome.jpg]


   Home Biography Constituent Services North Carolina Grants Federal
   Government Speeches Photo Gallery Kids Corner

   [clearpixel.gif]

   Photo of Senator Helms

   Helms protests that his resume is too long. However, since his has been
   a somewhat varied career, I feel that different aspects will be of
   interest to different people who make inquiry of us.

   ---- Jimmy Broughton, Administrative Assistant

   Senator Helms was born in Monroe, North Carolina on October 18, 1921.
   He attended the Monroe public schools, Wingate (NC) Junior College and
   Wake Forest College. He holds honorary Doctor of Law degrees from Bob
   Jones University, Greenville, South Carolina and Grove City College,
   Grove City, Pennsylvania and he has received Honorary Degrees from
   Campbell University, Buies Creek, North Carolina, and Wingate
   University, Wingate, North Carolina.

   He served in the U.S. Navy from 1942 through 1945. After WWII, he
   became the city editor of The Raleigh Times, and later, Director of
   News and Programs for the Tobacco Radio Network and Radio Station WRAL,
   in Raleigh.

   He served as Administrative Assistant to United States Senator Willis
   Smith from 1951 to 1953 and United States Senator Alton Lennon in 1953.

   In 1952, Mr. Helms directed the radio-television division of the
   presidential campaign of Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia, who was
   seeking the Democratic Party nomination.

   From 1953 through 1960, Mr. Helms was Executive Director of the North
   Carolina Bankers Association, and served as editor of the Tarheel
   Banker, which became the largest state banking publication in America
   under his stewardship.

   He was Executive Vice President, Vice Chairman of the Board and
   assistant Chief Executive Officer of Capitol Broadcasting Company,
   Raleigh, North Carolina, from 1960 until his election to the Senate.
   From 1960 until he filed for the Senate in 1972, Mr. Helms wrote and
   presented daily editorials on WRAL-TV and the Tobacco Radio Network.
   His editorials were printed regularly in more than 200 newspapers
   throughout the United States. They were broadcast by more than 70 radio
   stations in North Carolina.

   He served two two-year terms on the Raleigh City Council. During the
   four years, 1957 to 1961, he served as Chairman of the Council's Law
   and Finance Committee. He is past president of the Raleigh Rotary Club,
   and the Raleigh Executives Club. He is a 33^rd degree Mason, Grand
   Lodge of Masons of North Carolina (Grand Orator, 1965, 1982, and 1991)
   and is a member of the Shrine.

   He has served as the Director of the North Carolina Cerebral Palsy
   Hospital in Durham, the Director of the United Cerebral Palsy of North
   Carolina, and the Director of the Wake County Cerebral Palsy and
   Rehabilitation Center in Raleigh.

   He is a Baptist, and prior to his election to the Senate served as a
   deacon and a Sunday School teacher at Hayes Barton Baptist Church in
   Raleigh.

   He was one of the founders and serves as a director of Camp Willow Run,
   a Youth Camp for Christ at Littleton, North Carolina.

   He has served on the Board of Trustees of Meredith College, John F.
   Kennedy College, Campbell University and Wingate College. In 1941, at
   age 20, he became the youngest reporter, up to that time, to win the
   annual North Carolina Press Association award for enterprising
   reporting.

   In 1962, he received the annual Freedoms Foundation Award for the
   television editorial judged best in America. He was similarly honored
   by the Foundation in 1973 for a newspaper article.

   He is the first Republican , as well as the first North Carolinians, to
   receive the Golden Gavel, an award given for presiding over the Senate
   more than 117 hours in 1973. He received a second Golden Gavel for
   presiding over the Senate more than 120 hours in 1974.

   His name was placed in nomination for Vice President of the United
   States at the GOP convention in Kansas City in 1976. Although he asked
   the convention to withdraw his name, he nevertheless received 99
   delegate votes.

   He holds the Gold Medal of Merit from the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and
   the North Carolina American Legionaire Award.

   In 1980, he was presented the Legislator of the Year Award by
   Christians for a Better America and proclaimed the National Man of the
   Year in Politics by Christian Voice, Inc. Also, in the same year, he
   received the North Carolina Public Service Award.

   In 1980, 1981, and 1983, he was voted the Most Admired Conservative in
   Congress, by the readers of Conservative Digest.

   Senator Helms was presented the American Security Council Award in 1982
   and the Conservative Caucus 97^th Congress Statesman Award in 1983.

   He received the Golden Eagle Award in 1987 from the American Federation
   of Police and the "Spirit of Enterprise" Award in 1989 from the U.S.
   Chamber of Commerce.

   He has received the Guardian of Small Business Award from the National
   Federation of Independent Business and the Watchdog of the Treasury
   Award form the National Associated Businessmen every year since his
   election in 1973. In addition, he has received the Taxpayers's Best
   Friend Award from the National Taxpayers' Union every year since 1981.

   He is married to the former Dorothy Jane Coble of Raleigh. He is the
   father of three children: Jane (Mrs. Charles R. Knox), Nancy (Mrs. John
   Stuart) of Raleigh and Charles of Winston-Salem, and has seven
   grandchildren.

   Senator Helms began his first term in the Senate in January 1973; was
   reelected to a second term on November 7, 1978; to a third term on
   November 6, 1984; a fourth term on November 6, 1990; and a fifth term
   on November 7, 1996. He is Chairman of the Committee on Foreign
   Relations, a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and
   Forestry, and a member of the Rules And Administration Committee.
