http://www1.stpaul.gov/neighborhoods/

   The City of Saint Paul

     [wedge.gif] Neighborhood info and maps, business associations, and
                              District Councils

            [nlink.gif] Get Involved! -- Saint Paul Issues Forum

                      Neighborhood information and maps

        See our Census 2000 pages, which show neighborhood population
                      statistics by race and ethnicity.

    City Living offers reduced loan rates for purchasing, refinancing, or
   renovation. If you’re remodeling, you may qualify for a 4.0% interest
   rate. If you’re in the market for a new home or want to refinance, you
   could qualify for an interest rate below the current market. View City
                              Living documents.

     Report downed trees in your neighborhood to the City for clean up!
   After a strong wind or storm you can report downed limbs, branches and
                              trees on the web.

   Neighborhood maps of Saint Paul are now online. These maps will soon be
      your key to navigating around Saint Paul’s web for all kinds of
                          neighborhood information.

                             Guide to Recycling

                                 Also . . .

   Education in Saint Paul -- Links to neighborhood schools and libraries
      City Code and Charter -- The laws that govern your city and your
                                 neigborhood
   Sister Cities -- Saint Paul has relationships with cities that are its
                         neighbors around the globe

                            Business associations

        Grand Avenue is truly a grand avenue of shops, eateries, and
                            professional offices
   White Bear Avenue Business Association -- Looking out for the interests
                       of people on White Bear Avenue
       The West End Business Association -- Business owners and other
     professionals in the West 7th/West End business corridor (Downtown
                            Saint Paul to Hwy 5).
                Riverview Times -- Online community newspaper
       Rondo Community Land Trust -- Serving the Lexington-Hamline and
                       Summit-University neighborhoods
       Neighborhood Development Center is a community-based non-profit
   organization that works in the inner cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul
   training and lending to emerging entrepreneurs build small businesses,
     and helping community groups build stronger neighborhood economies

                               [wedge_sm.gif]

                     Saint Paul’s 17 District Councils

                District 3 -- West Side Citizens Organization
         District 4 -- Dayton’s Bluff District 4 Community Council
     District 5 -- Payne-Phalen Planning Council -- Note: this page uses
                                    java
                  District 6 -- District 6 Planning Council
   District 8 -- Summit-University Planning Council. Just up the hill from
                                  Downtown
     Ramsey Hill Association -- The Ramsey Hill Association represents a
   large historic area mostly in District 8. Be sure to look at their NEW
                           Ramsey Hill note cards.
     District 10 -- Como Park. It’s Saint Paul’s ‘garden district.’
   District 12 -- St. Anthony Park. It’s a little place that time forgot,
                     in Saint Paul’s northwest corner.
   District 13* -- Lexington-Hamline. A neighborhood that is a vital part
                               of Saint Paul.
        District 13* -- Merriam Park. Merriam Park Community Council.
    District 13* -- Snelling Hamline. Snelling Hamline Community Council
      * District 13 is made up of three separate neighborhood councils.
   District 14 -- Macalester-Groveland. “Where the technology of the ’90s
                   lives with the elegance of the ’20s.”
   District 15 -- Highland Park. -- New Site! The southwest neighborhood’s
                          voice in City government.
   District 16 -- Summit Hill Association. Home of tradition and elegance.
    District 17 -- CapitolRiver Council. Saint Paul’s Downtown community
                                   group.
                               [wedge_sm.gif]

           And here are more links to Saint Paul’s neighborhoods:

   [nlink.gif]

   Community profiles of Saint Paul neighborhoods -- all 17 of them, based
   on the 1990 census, with fascinating, detailed demographic information
                          about each neighborhood.

   Saint Paul’s block clubs have their own crime prevention groups you can
                        contact and become a part of.
                               [wedge_lr.gif]

                       [ What’s New? ] [ Search ] [ Contact Us ] [ Home ]
