http://www.voa.gov/interns/

    LOOKING FOR A GLOBAL EXPERIENCE IN INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION, RIGHT
                           IN THE NATIONS CAPITAL?

   The International Broadcasting Bureau, Americas overseas broadcasting
   organization, including the Voice of America and WORLDNET Television,
   is offering exciting internship opportunities in Washington, D.C.

   Come and join us as a student volunteer intern to gain experience in an
   exciting international environment at our headquarters, located just a
   few steps from Capitol Hill. Be part of a round-the-clock broadcaster
   which reaches 91 million people a week in English and 52 other
   languages via radio, television and the Internet.

   GET "HANDS ON" EXPERIENCE

   We offer opportunities in radio and television divisions, overseas
   affiliate relations, public affairs, civil rights and other management
   and administrative areas.

   From day one, depending upon your own experience and interests, you can
   work side-by-side with veteran journalists and broadcasters from around
   the world, in addition to the English speaking-professionals whose
   programs are heard worldwide. Depending on your professional
   background, you might do anything from conducting Internet research to
   writing to "on-the-street" reporting to drafting a press release.

   THE CHOICES ARE MANY!

   We can tailor an experience for you! Below is a sample list of offices
   that welcome interns.

   News Division
   Africa Division
   East Asia & Pacific Division
   European Division
   Latin American Division
   Near East and North Africa Division
   South and Central Asia Division
   Eurasia Division
   English Programs Division
   Special English and Music Division
   Directors Office (VOA)
   External Affairs (public affairs) Office
   Affiliate Relations
   Web Manager
   Office of Civil Rights

   ACADEMIC CREDIT

   We cooperate fully with you the student and your educational
   institution regarding documentation for college credit.

   PREVIOUS INTERNS RATE THEIR EXPERIENCES
     * "I have had the opportunity to live in our nations capital and work
       in one of the most unique services within our federal
       governmentVoice of America employs a widely diverse group of people
       each one with his or her own story to tell." Former intern in the
       VOAs East Asia Research Center

     * "I was given a lot of responsibility, and this internship gave me
       the confidence I need to be prepared to handle projects on my own
       in the real world" Former intern in the VOA Directors Office

     * "I had a very good chance to learn how the organization works, and
       personally I enjoyed working as a researcher and radio broadcaster
       for the Korean Service."

     * "I highly recommend doing an internship at VOA because it is a
       unique opportunity to learn from news reporters that have a wealth
       of knowledge, experience, and love for the profession. It is
       especially valuable to someone with an interest in international
       affairs." Former Newsroom intern

     * "[The VOA internship] provided opportunities unavailable to interns
       anywhere elseaccess to studios, labs, and equipment, as well as the
       location, which is a great environment for practicing fieldwork and
       interviews. There aren't many places that allow interns to cover a
       press conference on Capitol Hill during one's first week. From
       radio to television and Internet broadcasting, in front of or
       behind the mic or camera, VOA is the place where one can learn
       about it all." Former Africa Division intern

     * "My time as a public affairs intern provided me with extremely
       valuable experience in public relations practices as well as an
       opportunity to see exactly how public affairs works in a
       government-run agency and at an international level. The overall
       experience, including the people I met through the internship and
       living in Washington, has made me feel much more confident in my
       skills as I begin to enter the working world."--Former Public
       Affairs intern, Summer 2000


   LIVING EXPENSES

   All expenses for coming to Washington, DC and living here during your
   internship are the responsibility of the student. We are not able at
   this time to offer a salary or any other financial assistance.

   THE APPLICATION PROCESS IS SIMPLE!

   Applications are being accepted year round for internships during the
   Spring, Summer, Fall, and Winter quarters. Although knowledge of a
   foreign language or having broadcast experience would be a plus,
   applicants need not have specific language or technical skills, just an
   overwhelming desire to learn and succeed!!

   Our only requirement is that you be enrolled as an undergraduate or
   graduate student in a college or university.

   If you would like to apply, please send your resume with a cover letter
   (or email) detailing the time period you would be available (including
   days of the week), your interest areas and your vision of how you would
   spend your time with us. Please indicate whether you will be receiving
   academic credit and what we need to do to facilitate. Letters of
   recommendation are helpful but not required.

   To allow us time to process your application, please send the above
   information at least four to six weeks before the date you wish to
   begin your internship to: Janice Albritton-Pollock

   International Broadcasting Bureau
   330 Independence Avenue, S.W.
   Room 1543
   Washington, D.C. 20237

   202-619-3117 (Office)
   202-205-8427 (FAX)
   E-mail

   For further information about our agency, go to:
   VOA Homepage
   VOANews.com Homepage
   Languages
   VOA FAQs
   Worldnet
   Directors Page
