http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/group-backpacking.html

                                                                Home Index

               2001 Guided Group Backpacking Trips at Coe Park

                               [greenline.gif]

                  Coe Park volunteers Irwin and Janet Koff
       are hosting four more backpacking trips in Coe Park this year.

   To reserve a place on one of the trips or to get more information, call
   Irwin or Janet at 408-293-8194.  There are, of course, limits to the
   number of participants Irwin and Janet can accommodate.  So call soon!

      To learn more about one of the remaining group backpacking trips,
                              select its dates.


                           Labor Day
                        Weekend
                        Aug  31 - Sep  3

                                            Fall
                                        Weekend
                                        Sept  21 - 23














                             Labor Day Weekend
   Backpack Trip
   On this strenuous 4-day, 3-night trip you'll get to explore beautiful,
   remote areas of the Orestimba Wilderness
   and bask in the glow of a totally full moon.
                            Cost per person:  $3
   ($1 per night camping fee)
   Friday
   August 31 You'll meet Irwin and Janet at 6 p.m. at the Bell Station
   gate (they'll provide directions).  You'll drive to the Orestimba
   Corral near the wilderness boundary and car camp.
   Saturday
   September 1 You'll backpack 6 miles into the wilderness on a relatively
   flat (but sometimes rough) trail to lovely Paradise Lake, where you'll
   set up camp for the weekend.
   Sunday
   September 2 You'll go on a relatively flat 18-mile loop hike along the
   beautiful Robinson Creek Trail and back to camp on Red Creek Road.
   Monday
   September 3 You'll backpack 6 miles (over the same flat, rough trail)
   back to your vehicle and leave the park at about 2 p.m.


                              (top)     (next)















                             Fall Weekend
   Backpack Trip
   On this trip you'll get to camp and fish at beautiful Kelly Lake
   and hike the strenuous, popular Kelly Cabin Canyon loop.
                         Cost per person:  $2
   ($1 per night camping fee)
   Friday
   September 21 You'll meet Irwin and Janet at 4 p.m. at the Coyote Creek
   entrance, park your vehicle at Coit Camp, and backpack 4 miles to Kelly
   Lake.
   Saturday
   September 22 You'll go on the 12-mile Kelly Cabin Canyon loop hike,
   which involves some "rough and scramble," as Irwin puts it.
   Sunday
   September 23 You'll backpack 4 miles back to your vehicle and leave the
   park by about noon.


                            (previous)     (top)

                               [greenline.gif]

                       Return  to the backpacking page
