http://secstate.wa.gov/sam_reed.asp

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

                                                   [USEMAP:buttons_reed.gif]
   space
      space

      Sam Reed Sam Reed
      Sam Reed (R) is Washington's 14th Secretary of State. He was elected in
      November 2000 and took office on January 10, 2001.

      Sam previously served five terms as Thurston County Auditor, where he
      and his office won numerous awards for achievements and innovations in
      elections, historical records, licensing, and finance. Sam also held
      several positions in the administration of former Governor Dan Evans,
      and was Assistant Secretary of State under former incumbents Lud Kramer
      and Bruce Chapman.

      Contact Sam Reed


   BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
   Professional

   Prior to his election as Washington's 14th Secretary of State, Sam Reed
   was first elected as the Thurston County Auditor in 1978 and has served
   for five terms.

   Previous to his election, Sam began his public service as the Executive
   Director for Governor Evans' Urban Affairs Council for two years.

   Appointed by Governor Evans to be the Director of the State
   Constitutional Reform Commission for two years.

   Washington's Assistant Secretary of State for six years under Lud
   Kramer and Bruce Chapman.

   Re-elected five times as Thurston County Auditor, averaging 72% of the
   vote with strong bipartisan support.

   While Sam has been in office, the Thurston County Auditor's Office has
   won ten national achievement awards for Significant Innovations in
   County Government in the areas of elections, historical records,
   licensing, and finance.

   Pioneered Internet and cable television voters' guides, the nationally
   recognized "Voting Is Cool" program for kids, "Windows on History"
   program, and the "Civic Pride Honor Roll" program to recognize
   long-term perfect voters.

   Former President of the Washington State Association of County Auditors
   (WSACA) and recipient of the WSACA Outstanding Service Award.

   Thurston County Citizen of the Year Distinguished Service Award.

   Governor's Distinguished Volunteer Award.

   Federal Election Commission Voting Systems Standards Advisory Board
   Member.

   Represented the United States as an international election observer in
   Uganda and Russia. He was chosen as one of two individuals by the State
   Department (Martin Luther King III was the other) to represent the U.S.
   in observing the creation of the South Africa election program. Could
   not go due to time commitment (6 months).

   A pioneer in the area of local government performance audits.
   Personal

   Born in the Portland-Vancouver area and raised in Wenatchee.

   Graduated from Lewis and Clark High School in Spokane.

   Earned a Bachelor and Masters in Political Science from Washington
   State University.

   Certified professional elections officer.

   Sam resides in Olympia with his wife, Margie, to whom he has been wed
   since 1963. He has two children, David and Kristen. Sam enjoys his
   family, running, playing the piano, arts, and tennis.

   Sam Reed has maintained his active involvement in many government and
   civic organizations. He takes an active role in such groups as:
     * Washington State Association of County Auditors, Past President
     * Olympia Kiwanis, President-Elect
     * Mainstream Republicans of Washington, Founding Chair
     * Washington State Election Administration & Certification Board
     * Washington State Archives Advisory Committee
     * Americorps Advisory Council

   Sam Reed was actively involved with:
     * The American Cancer Society, Chaired the Washington Division
       Executive Committee
     * Cornish College of the Arts Board of Directors
     * The Evergreen State College's Master in Public Administration
       Advisory Board
     * Common Cause of Washington Cofounder with Jolene Unsoeld

                                     Top

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
