http://egov.gov/documents/progress_rpt.pdf

   NOTE TO THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERS COUNCIL FROM: Dan Chenok, OMB
   Jonathan Womer, OMB RE: Update of GPEA Plans -- due by COB on October
   22 OMB is issuing a call for updates on your plans to implement the
   Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA). There are two parts to the
   update. First is a strategy memo to be provided directly to OMB. Second
   is updating the list of transactions you provided last year. GSA is
   providing you the ability to update last year's plans on-line. More
   information is available in the attached memo. Please note that based
   on your comments changes were made to the draft memo circulated at the
   end of August. We have added a few new fields in Attachment A and
   Attachment B and have eliminated Attachment C. In addition, we are
   asking for more specific information in your strategy memo including
   progress or problems you have encountered and how your progress on GPEA
   is tied with your work on electronic government. Questions regarding
   accessing the CIO Council web site to update the database should be
   directed to Nora Rice in GSA at (202) 501-0781. Any other questions
   regarding the OMB memo should go to Nancy Sternberg in OMB at (202)
   395-3787. Thank you for your attention to this matter. MEMORANDUM FOR
   THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERS FROM: Mark Forman Associate Director for
   Information Technology and E-Government John Graham Administrator,
   Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs SUBJECT: Progress Report
   on Implementing the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) This
   memorandum outlines the procedures agencies should follow to update
   their GPEA plans in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-00-10, "OMB
   Procedures and Guidance on Implementing the Government Paperwork
   Elimination Act " and describes the data to be reported to OMB. This
   information is due to OMB by October 22, 2001. As the instructions
   below indicate, OMB has worked with the General Services Administration
   (GSA) and the CIO Council to facilitate work on this update, through a
   web-based application that will allow agencies to simply make changes
   to their existing GPEA plans. Electronic government is one of the five
   government-wide efforts in the President's Management Agenda. Effective
   implementation of GPEA is an essential building block in our collective
   efforts to move to electronic government. Background. The Government
   Paperwork Elimination Act, P.L. 105-277, was enacted in October of
   1998. Under GPEA, agencies must generally provide for the optional use
   and acceptance of electronic documents and signatures, and electronic
   recordkeeping when practicable. OMB M-00-10
   (http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/memoranda/m00-10.html) requires that
   each agency update annually its plan for implementing GPEA and submit
   to OMB a summary of that plan. On October 31, 2000, your agency
   provided the first summary. This memo requests this year's update. As
   explained in M-00-10, each agency must build on their existing efforts
   to implement electronic government, prioritize their implementation
   based on achievability and net benefit, and coordinate the plan and
   schedule with their strategic IT planning activities to support program
   responsibilities consistent with the budget process. The information
   provided in the updated GPEA progress report should demonstrate how the
   agency is making the transformation to simplified business processes
   that are citizen-centered and facilitate faster, cheaper, and more
   efficient operations. Section 3 of the memorandum describes other
   factors that agencies should also consider in their planning.
   Furthermore, guidance on other implementation issues covered by GPEA
   has been issued by the Departments of Treasury
   (http://www.fms.treas.gov/fedreg/eauthpolicy.pdf ), Justice
   (http://www.cybercrime.gov/eprocess.htm), Commerce
   (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-25/sp800-25.pdf), and
   the National Archives and Records Administration
   (http://www.nara.gov/records/policy/b2001-02.html). 2 What transactions
   must your agency address in its plan? Under GPEA, agencies must offer,
   when practicable, an option for the maintenance, submission, or
   disclosure of information by electronic means by October 2003. In this
   regard, and to help implement electronic government more broadly,
   agency plans must address how the agency will simplify and unify
   business processes in moving to electronic media with respect to the
   following types of transactions: Information collections under the
   Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) (Attachment A). Providing for optional
   electronic reporting, recordkeeping, and disclosure, and related
   processing of that information will decrease the public's paperwork
   burden and increase the practical utility of the information provided.
   Non-PRA covered transactions (Attachment B). This includes: Interagency
   reporting requirements. Electronic reporting between Federal agencies
   will reduce costs and increase the government's efficiency. Information
   products that agencies disseminate to the public. Agencies can
   distribute information more widely, more efficiently, and at a lower
   cost by making it available electronically. Other transactions. Other
   transactions important in implementing electronic government should be
   reported as well. This includes data capture mechanisms and tools (not
   covered in attachment A), primarily data sharing and transactions
   between government and business or between government and other levels
   of government beyond reporting or dissemination What must your agency
   provide to OMB? You must provide the following information by October
   22, 2001: A memo (sent by e-mail to the address identified below) on
   your agency's overall strategy and progress in complying with GPEA and
   achieving electronic government; An update of the summary of your
   agency's plan for GPEA compliance of PRA collections on the cio.gov web
   site (see Attachment A); An update of the summary of your agency's plan
   for GPEA compliance of interagency reporting, information dissemination
   activities, and other agency identified transactions on the cio.gov web
   site (see Attachment B). What are the changes from last year's
   requirements? Separate reporting on high risk transaction (Attachment C
   last year) has been eliminated. Agencies are to provide their strategy
   by e-mail, and update their summary of transaction information at the
   cio.gov web site. Three new data elements are to be added to the
   information to be reported in accordance with Attachments A and B: 3 1.
   Customer Group -- identifies whether the transaction is primarily with
   citizens (C), businesses (B), other state or local governments (G), or
   within the Federal government - between agencies - (I). This
   designation is being added to more clearly associate the work underway
   with customer groups that will benefit and to align GPEA with the
   Administration's citizen-centered focus of E-Government. 2. Unique
   Project ID -- The IT budget project number (as defined in OMB Circular
   A-11, section 300 and exhibit 53) for the information system of which
   this transaction is a part. Each major or significant (and some small
   systems) have a Unique Project ID. All other IT systems are rolled up
   under a single Unique Project ID. It is being added to tie the GPEA
   plans more closely with the Budget process. 3. Transformation Status --
   is an indication of whether the project primarily supports electronic
   forms only (e.g. fillable on-line forms); electronic transactions
   (e.g., web services beyond electronic forms); process streamlining
   (e.g. electronic transactions tied to a re-engineered process); or to
   unify organizations or information technology (e.g., one stop shopping,
   one stop benefits, etc. across organizations). It is being added to
   demonstrate how closely the GPEA activities are tied to
   transformational E-Government. What issues should your strategy memo
   address? 1. Summarize your agency's strategy for meeting the GPEA
   deadline, and how that is being integrated into its overall plan for
   transforming your agency to achieve electronic government. In your
   summary please address: What are your plans for addressing Government
   to Citizen transactions? What are your plans for addressing Government
   to Business transactions? What are your plans for addressing
   transactions with other Governments? What are your plans to address
   internal efficiencies within your agency and transactions within the
   Federal government? 2. How is your work to implement GPEA and
   electronic government related to your agency's on-going work to develop
   and maintain an enterprise architecture? What efforts are underway to
   implement customer relationship management (including convergence of
   on-line and physical citizen interaction and including accessibility
   standards)? What efforts are underway to implement supply chain
   management? What efforts are underway to implement enterprise
   information management? 3. How are you using information technology and
   on-line processes to unify and simplify transactions? 4. What methods
   are you using to ensure the most beneficial projects are prioritized
   for implementation? Which initiatives appear to have the highest net
   benefit and why? Which initiatives are not practicable and why? What
   cross-cutting barriers to implementation have you identified? 5. Are
   any of your priority projects behind schedule? What actions are you
   taking to assure that they are completed on time? 4 How should your
   agency's plan relate to strategic IT planning in the budget process?
   Resources to implement the plan should have been included in your
   agency's budget request submitted this Fall in accordance with OMB
   Circular A-11. To assist with the cross walk between the GPEA planning
   information and the budget, this year we are asking you to provide the
   Unique Project IDs from the A-11 budget request in the information
   reported on each transaction (see appendices A and B). How should the
   CIO provide this information to OMB? To report Attachment A and
   Attachment B information, OMB and GSA are providing on-line tables for
   agencies to update via the web. Agencies will only have access to their
   own information. The tables will be available through the Chief
   Information Officer's (CIO) homepage, located at http://cio.gov. GSA
   will provide a secure login procedure for each agency and specific
   instruction for operation. First, agencies must forward the name,
   e-mail address, phone number, and organization of individuals you wish
   to have enter GPEA data into the on-line database in an e- mail to
   ciocouncil.support@gsa.gov. Also, if any of your agency or bureau names
   have changed since last year, provide the previous name and the new
   name in your e-mail. Then GSA will send you the exact URL, login
   information, and instructions for operation. The strategy memo should
   be e-mailed to: Nancy_B._Sternberg@omb.eop.gov Whom should you contact
   for further information? Should you have any questions regarding
   Internet reporting, please contact Nora Rice at GSA by phone at (202)
   501-0781 or e-mail at nora.rice@gsa.gov. If you have any other
   questions regarding this memorandum, please contact Nancy Sternberg in
   OIRA at (202) 395-3787. Attachments 5 Attachment A  Collections of
   Information under the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA). What is the
   purpose of this Attachment? This Attachment explains what information
   your agency must submit regarding plans for providing a fully
   electronic option for transactions that are part of the information
   collection process, consistent with OMB Memorandum M-00-10 on
   implementing GPEA. Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA, 44 U.S.C.
   3501-20), a collection of information is: "the obtaining, causing to be
   obtained, soliciting, or requiring the disclosure to an agency, third
   parties or the public of information by or for an agency by means of
   identical questions posed to, or identical reporting, recordkeeping, or
   disclosure requirements imposed on, ten or more persons, whether such
   collection of information is mandatory, voluntary, or required to
   obtain or retain a benefit." (5 C.F.R. 1320.4) In providing an
   electronic option by October 2003, you will need to assess the
   practicability of optional electronic reporting and further electronic
   correspondence with the respondents for its collections of information
   that require OMB approval. If you determine that optional electronic
   reporting and/or electronic communication with the respondents is not
   practicable, you must explain why to OMB in the appropriate column.
   Your plan should focus on its recurring information collections. You do
   not need to address one-time, non-recurring collections (e.g., a
   one-time research survey) in the plans your agency submits to OMB. For
   tracking purposes you should report (or not eliminate) any transactions
   that were not completed as of October 31, 2000, when reports were first
   requested. Does OMB have information on PRA collections that already
   have been automated? Your agency does not need to report existing fully
   electronic transactions in the table as of October 31, 2000. A fully
   electronic option for a PRA collection is one that has no compulsory
   paper-based reporting requirements, signatures, correspondence, or
   dissemination to or with the respondents. You can access OMB's listing
   of all currently approved collections at
   http://www.whitehouse.gov/library/omb/OMBINV.html. What does your
   agency need to report in Attachment A? Submit the following information
   as a separate electronic file and in tabular format. 1. Agency: The
   name of the Federal department or agency responsible for the
   collection. 2. Bureau: The name of the bureau or office responsible for
   the collection. If none exists, or if the transaction spans more than
   one bureau, leave this field blank. 3. Name: The name of the collection
   (or group of related collections). As appropriate you may report
   related collections together as one record in the table below. For
   example, if three forms are required to apply for and receive a grant
   from your agency, you may report all three collections together. This
   is especially useful to demonstrate how automation can help to provide
   customer-centric approaches to electronic government that integrate
   discrete collections. As another example, if a specific reporting
   requirement in a 6 regulation requires four different submissions of
   related information you may report those collections together. Further,
   you may list separate groups of related collections as one record in
   the table if they are functionally similar and will be automated
   together on-line in the same time frame. For example, if your agency
   has multiple grants with multiple applications and all the applications
   will be put on-line at the same time, then the "application for agency
   grants in program area X" may be aggregated as one collection category.
   4. Description: A short description of the nature of the collection(s).
   Please be brief. 5a. Customer Group: Even though other groups may
   apply, classify the transaction as primarily: government to business,
   government to citizen (includes all individuals, even non-citizens),
   government to government (includes foreign, state, territorial, local,
   and tribal governments, and all nonprofit organizations), or internal
   federal government work between agencies. 5b. Description of
   Respondents: Give more detail to the question above by providing the
   specific respondents to the collection(s). Use any of the following
   categories that most closely describe the respondents in all the groups
   that apply (i.e. even if you chose government to business, for example,
   in the question above you may choose from any of the other three
   categories as well). Business: financial institutions, federal
   contractors, health care providers, businesses, employers, farms, other
   food industry, manufacturers, ship/boat industry, and fire arms
   dealers. Citizen: households, individuals, employees, students,
   retirees, fishermen, and landowners. Government: State governments,
   local governments, tribal government, universities, schools, nonprofit
   institutions, law enforcement, and labor unions. Internal: federal
   employees or federal employee benefit recipients and federal agencies.
   If there are additional respondents that do not fit into the above
   categories use "other." 7. Number of Respondents: A numerical estimate
   of the total number of separate persons or entities that will respond
   to the information collections listed in #8 below. 8. OMB Control
   Numbers: Provide the collections' OMB PRA control number(s), separated
   by a comma and a space if there is more than one (i.e., 0354-0123,
   0354-0143, 0354-0432, etc.). Some groups of collections may have more
   than one control number, and these may be reported as one entry with
   multiple OMB control numbers. Conversely, a control number may cover a
   number of separate collections; thus, a single OMB control number may
   be repeated. 9. Unique Project ID: Provide the unique ID number for the
   information system (as defined by OMB circular A-11 in section 300 and
   exhibit 53) into which the information collected under transaction is
   contained or put. Each major or significant (and some small systems)
   have a Unique Project ID. All other IT systems are rolled up under a
   single Unique Project ID. 10. Transformation Status: Commonly the level
   of transformation produced by electronic government projects can be
   described by specific stages. Indicate which of the following most
   closely describes the transformation stage the transaction is in as
   follows: electronic forms only (e.g. fill-able on-line forms);
   electronic transactions (e.g., web services beyond electronic forms);
   process streamlining (e.g. electronic transactions tied to a
   re-engineered process); or to unify organizations or information
   technology (e.g., one stop shopping, one stop benefits, etc. across
   organizations). 7 11. Completion Date: Indicate when your agency will
   offer a fully electronic reporting option for the collection(s) in
   question (format: mm/yyyy). If there are no current plans for a fully
   electronic option, indicate "Unknown". 12. Post 10/2003: If the date in
   the Completion Date field is "Unknown" or later than 10/2003, describe
   in 1-2 sentences Identify any statutory, practicability, or other
   barriers. If the date is 10/2003 or earlier then leave this field
   blank. 13. Electronic Signature: Indicate whether the agency plans to
   use electronic signatures with this collection(s) (" YES"/"NO"). For
   guidance on electronic signatures, see Part II, Section 2 and 7, of OMB
   Memorandum M-00-10. 8 Attachment B  Interagency Reporting Requirements
   What is the purpose of this Attachment? This Attachment explains what
   information your agency must submit regarding its plans for offering an
   electronic option for interagency reporting, information dissemination
   activities, and other agency-identified transactions, consistent with
   OMB Memorandum M-00-10 on implementing GPEA. Interagency reporting
   encompasses ongoing, periodic reports among agencies. Examples of
   interagency reporting are the exchange of personnel and payroll reports
   between agencies or the annual reporting of information to another
   agency. Information dissemination activities refer to the dissemination
   of "information dissemination products," publications that are intended
   for the general public. OMB guidance on "information dissemination
   products" can be found in Circular A-130, Sections 6.c, 6.h, 8.a(5),
   8.a(6), and 8.a(8). An example of an "information dissemination
   product" is the ongoing and periodic release of labor statistics.
   Agency-identified transactions are any other transactions that your
   agency believes are important to address and that are not captured
   elsewhere in the plan. Fully electronic transactions as of October 31,
   2000 do not need to be reported in this table. If your agency already
   fully reported (or receives if an interagency reporting requirement is
   from your agency) in an electronic form as of the above date, you do
   not need to identify that transaction in your plans. For tracking
   purposes you should report (or not eliminate) any transactions that
   were not completed as of October 31, 2000, when reports were first
   requested. What does your agency need to report in this section? Submit
   the following information as a separate electronic file and in tabular
   format. 1. Agency: The name of the Federal department or agency
   responsible for the reporting or dissemination products. 2. Bureau: The
   name of the bureau or office responsible for the report or
   dissemination. If none exists, or if the report or dissemination
   product spans more than one bureau, leave this field blank. 3. Name:
   The name of the interagency report or information dissemination product
   (or group of similar reports or products). You may report on categories
   of similar reports or dissemination products instead of specific
   reports or dissemination products if the reports or products are
   functionally similar and would be automated together on-line in the
   same time frame. 4. Description: A short description of the interagency
   report or information dissemination product (or groups of reports or
   products). Please be brief. 5a. Customer Group: Even though other
   groups may apply, classify the interagency report or information
   dissemination product listing all the groups that apply: Government to
   business, Government to citizen (includes all individuals, even
   non-citizens), Government to government (includes foreign, state,
   territorial, local, and tribal governments, and all non-profit
   organizations), or internal federal government work. 5b. Description of
   Partners: Provide more detail on the Federal agencies or Dissemination
   product users than the question above. For an interagency report,
   indicate which Federal agencies submit reports to the agency listed in
   #1 above, or if interagency forms are used 9 (e.g. personnel
   information) for administrative tasks simply put "Federal Agencies."
   For information dissemination, describe who receives the information
   dissemination product. Use any of the following categories that most
   closely describe the dissemination receivers (i.e. even if you chose
   government to business, for example, in the question above you may
   choose from any of the other three categories as well). Business:
   financial institutions, federal contractors, health care providers,
   businesses, employers, farms, other food industry, manufacturers,
   ship/boat industry, and fire arms dealers. Citizen: households,
   individuals, employees, students, retirees, fishermen, and landowners.
   Government: State governments, local governments, tribal government,
   universities, schools, nonprofit institutions, law enforcement, and
   labor unions. Internal: federal employees or federal employee benefit
   recipients and federal agencies. If there are additional dissemination
   receivers that do not fit into the above categories use "other." 7.
   Number of Respondents: A rough numerical estimate of the number of
   separate agencies, persons, or entities described in #6 above. 8.
   Unique Project ID: Provide the unique ID number for the information
   system (as defined by OMB circular A-11 in section 300 and exhibit 53)
   into which the information collected under transaction is contained,
   put, or assembled. Each major or significant (and some small systems)
   have a Unique Project ID. All other IT systems are rolled up under a
   single Unique Project ID. 9. Transformation Status: Commonly the level
   of transformation produced by electronic government projects can be
   described by specific stages. Indicate which of the following most
   closely describes the transformation stage the transaction is in as
   follows: electronic forms only (e.g. fill-able on-line forms);
   electronic transactions (e.g., web services beyond electronic forms);
   process streamlining (e.g. electronic transactions tied to a
   re-engineered process); or to unify organizations or information
   technology (e.g., one stop shopping, one stop benefits, etc. across
   organizations). 10. Completion Date: Indicate when the reports or
   products will offer a fully electronic reporting or dissemination
   option (format: mm/yyyy). If there are no current plans for a fully
   electronic option, indicate "Unknown". 11. Post 10/2003: If the date in
   the Completion Date field is "Unknown" or later than 10/2003, describe
   in 1-2 sentences why it is not practicable to automate the transaction
   by 10/2003. Identify any statutory, practicability, or other barriers.
   If the date is 10/2003 or earlier then leave this field blank. 12.
   Electronic Signature: Indicate whether the agency plans to use
   electronic signatures with this transaction(s) (" YES"/"NO"). For
   guidance on electronic signatures, see Part II, Sections 2 and 7, of
   OMB Memorandum M-00-10. 10
