http://www.outreach.nimh.nih.gov/teleconferences.cfm

   NIMH

   Constituency Outreach &
   Education Program





   Program Description
   Outreach Partners
   Outreach Newsletter
   Annual Meetings
   Prior Solicitation
   Tip Sheets
   Media Materials
   Publications
   Contact Us
   NIMH Home
   Links

Tip Sheets

   As part of the technical assistance provided to Outreach Partners, NIMH
   periodically conducts training teleconferences. "Tip Sheets" are
   provided to Partners as a supplement to each teleconference. These
   sheets include resources, statistics, and other pertinent, related
   information. The NIMH Education Network and other groups and
   individuals interested in mental health may find these materials
   helpful.
   Anxiety Disorders (held Sept. 20, 2001)


     Tip Sheet #1  "Anxiety Disorders Scientific Update" (*PDF Format)

   Latino Outreach (held Nov. 20, 2000)


     Tip Sheet #1  "Suggestions for Mental Health Outreach to Latinos"
                   (*PDF Format)

     Tip Sheet #2  "Some Latino Web Resources" (*PDF Format)

     Tip Sheet #3  "Latino Cultural Values: Brief Primer for Health
                   Providers and Educators" (*PDF Format)

   Bipolar Disorder (held Sept 29, 2000)


     Tip Sheet #1  "Bipolar Disorder Scientific Update" (*PDF Format)

   *PDF (Portable Document Format) files can be read using Adobe's (TM)
   Acrobat (TM) Reader. This program, which you must install once on your
   computer, allows you to view, navigate and print PDF documents as they
   were published. You will need to download and install a copy of the
   Acrobat Reader in order to use this files. In addition, you can view
   PDF files through your browser by installing the Web browser plug-ins.
   You must install the Acrobat Reader first.

   For information about the Constituency Outreach and Education Program,
   please e-mail us at outreach@mail.nih.gov.

   For information about NIMH and its other programs, please e-mail,
   write, or phone us.

   NIMH Public Inquiries
   6001 Executive Boulevard, Room 8184, MSC 9663
   Bethesda, MD 20892-9663 USA
   Voice (301) 443-4513; Fax (301) 443-4279

   For technical assistance with the site, please e-mail the webmaster.

   This site was last updated January 2002.
