http://cleancity.dc.gov/whats_been_done.htm

   [USEMAP:header.gif]

   Home

   Clean City Initiative

   Agencies Action People
   Top 10 Focus Items
   Current Issues
   Legislation
   What's Been Done
   Regulations
   What you can do
   How to get help
   Strategy Briefing
   Volunteer
   Clean City Summit


   What's Been Done
   Quarterly Cleanliness Assessments
       See Cleanliness Maps by ward.
       See Clean City Trend Analysis.

   Cleanliness assessments are conducted by citizen-based survey teams on
   a quarterly basis for the 8 Wards and the 16 major corridors and
   interstate highways. The outcome of the clean city ratings are plotted
   by the Office of Planning on Geographic Information System maps.
   Clean City Promotion and Events
       Great American Cleanup 2001
       Great American Cleanup 2000
       Clean City Summit, December 1999
       See Upcoming Volunteer cleanup events
       See Past volunteer cleanup events
       See Court Services and Offender Supervision cleanup events

   Discourage Illegal Posters in Public Space
       See letter to political candidates
       See what citizens are saying

   Multi-agency Task Force - Established a multi-agency task force which
   includes representatives from the Metropolitan Police Department,
   Department of Public Works, Corporation Counsel, U.S. Attorney's
   Office, Department of Consumer & Regulatory Affairs and the Environment
   Crime Unit, to develop recommendations to discourage the placement of
   advertisements not in compliance with District Municipal Regulations.
   See Current Issues for additional information regarding the "Signs,
   Posters, and Placard Nuisance Abatement Task Force" which is chaired by
   the Clean City Coordinator. Some actions the task force have pending
   include:
     * 61D Form - Revising the 61D form, which is the ticket used by the
       police to write quality of life offensives, to help the officer
       issuing the violation to :

     1. better know the violations covered by the 61D,
     2. better remember the event,
     3. and facilitate giving the prosecutors a clearer picture of the
     violation sufficient to prosecute.

     * Mayor's Order - Working with the Department of Public Works member
       of the task force in the preparation of a proposed Mayor's Order to
       authorize an agent of the Mayor to accept copies of signs,
       advertisements, and posters for approval as per 24 DCMR section
       108.
     * MPD Enforcement - Encouraging MPD to be more proactive in the
       enforcement of poster regulations.

       Status as of September, 2000
     * 61D Form - Revised the MPD 61D to make it police officer user
       friendly by listing the most typical "quality of life offensives"
       which includes "Placards/Signs/Poster". The proposed revision also
       includes adequate information on the 61D to allow the Corporation
       Counsel to proceed with criminal prosecution, when appropriate.
       Status: Prepared the revised 61D ticket, obtained MPD commitment to
       print and implement the new ticket. Presently addressing remaining
       issues.
     * Mayor's Order - Initiated action for preparation of a Mayor's Order
       to have the Public Space Permits and Records Branch at DPW
       identified as the Mayor's agent for accepting two copies of posters
       pursuant to 24 DCMR, section 108.11, w/in 24 hours of posting
       signs. Status: Mayor's Order prepared on Sept. 11, 2000 and
       submitted to the Administrator, Office of Documents and
       Administrative Issuance. DPW-DDOT identified as the Mayor's agent
       to receive posters.
     * Recriminalize Littering - Initiated action to re-criminalize
       littering in the District of Columbia to allow placing littering on
       the revised 61D. Status: Corporation Council and Attorney in the
       legal office at DPW are preparing an amendment to the current law
       to criminalize littering in the District. Plan to submit to City
       Council for passage as emergency legislation.
     * Letter to Political Candidates - Sent letters and e-mail to all
       candidates for political office encouraging them to adhere to the
       3-block-per-poster rule and to remove their posters after the
       election. Status: Letters and e-mail sent Aug 30, 2000.
     * Public Information Campaign - Developing public information
       campaign to advise citizens of adverse impact of illegal posters
       and encouraging their removal by citizens. Status: Work in
       progress.....Sent articles to several newspapers and civic
       associations for including in their news letters
     * MPD Training Program - Developing training program and performance
       standards for police officers regarding enforcement of poster/signs
       laws in the District. Status: Work in progress.
     * Citizens' Participation - Organizing citizens to testify in support
       of pending bill before the city council completely disallowing the
       affixing of posters/signs/placards on public lamp posts, etc.
       Status: Bill before the City Council and have started to get
       information on pending bill.

   Promote Clean City Legislation

   City Council Testimony - The Clean City Coordinator testified before
   the city council in support of the following bills and recruited
   community support and testimony during the hearings:
     * The Litter Control Administration Amendment act of 1999
     * The Keep Washington, DC Beautiful Inc. Grant Authorization Act of
       1999
     * Submitted written comments to the City Council on the Anti-graffiti
       Amendment Act of 1999.

   Great American Cleanup (GAC)

   District's Participation in GAC - Working in partnership with
   representatives from DPW and Keep Washington DC Beautiful, developed a
   plan of action for the District's participation in the Great American
   Cleanup of April-May, 2000. See Photo Gallery and Events Calendar for
   specific events. The 2-month effort included 112 community cleanups
   involving 6541 hours of volunteer time.

   City-wide Cleanup - Working in partnership with the Department of
   Public Works, the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, The
   Department of Parks and Recreation, Keep Washington DC Beautiful, and
   community representatives, planned a city-wide cleanup to symbolized
   the kickoff of Washington DC's participating in the Great American
   Cleanup. The city-wide cleanup occurred on April 1, 2000.

   Cleanup DC Bike Ride - Working in partnership with Washington Area
   Bicyclists Association, KWDCB and DPW, developed a plan of action and
   implemented a Cleanup DC Bike Ride on Earth Day, April 22, 2000. The
   14-mile bike ride through Wards 2, 6, 7 & 8 was organized as a special
   event during the Great American Cleanup to promote cleaning up of DC.

   Anti-litter Poster Contest - Working in partnership with the DC Public
   Schools Art Content Specialist, KWDCB and DPW, developed a plan of
   action and implemented a student poster contest for grades K through 12
   students. The purpose of the poster contest was to promote personal
   responsibility in keeping Washington, DC, clean and beautiful. The
   students were instructed to design a poster that depicts an anti-litter
   and beautification message.

   District Agencies Participation in GAC - In addition to the 112
   community cleanups involving 6541 volunteer hours, over 60 public
   housing projects through out the city had volunteers do curb appeal
   cleanups. Additionally, now-retired Fire Chief Thomas Tippett ordered
   all of the fire station personnel to participate in the Great American
   Cleanup by cleaning up around their fire station.

   Gateway and Boundaries Regional Cleanup - Working in partnership with
   the representatives from Montgomery County and Prince George's
   counties, KWDCB, and DPW, developed a plan of action and implemented a
   gateway and boundaries regional cleanup of Montgomery and Prince
   George's Counties. The objective of this event was to encourage
   community pride and economic development and to create an opportunity
   for neighbors to know one another and build stronger ties. Montgomery
   County Executive Douglas Duncan and D.C. Mayor Anthony Williams
   participated.

   GAC Photo Gallery - In order to encourage citizens to participate in
   community cleanups during the Great American Cleanup, the Clean City
   Office made pictures of citizens participating in community clean-ups
   and posted these on the Clean City Photo Gallery. The community
   cleanups were encouraged by the Clean City Office to promote community
   pride and participation in the cleaning of the city and maintaining its
   cleanliness.

   Clean City Summit

   Working in partnership with representatives from the Department of
   Public Works and "Keep Washington DC Beautiful", participated in
   planning the Clean City Summit held December 9th, 1999, during which
   Washington DC officially joined Keep America Beautiful.

   Clean City Web Site

   Recruited a citizen volunteer webmaster Kathy Chamberlain who
   established and maintains a Clean City Initiative web site
   (cleancity.washingtondc.gov) containing information on the clean city
   initiative and educational and community engagement information. Within
   the first 6 weeks of the Clean City Initiative website being converted
   over to the Mayor's DC Blue format, there were over 56,000 hits at the
   various locations contained on the web site.

   Fundraising Strategy for Clean City Initiatives

   Developed a fundraising strategy with "Keep Washington, D.C. Beautiful,
   Inc." (KWDCB) and the Mayor's Development Office to solicit corporate
   and foundation contributions towards Clean City Initiatives including,
   but not limited to "adopt-a-block" programs, supplemental funds for the
   Clean City assessments, clean city publications such as brochures and
   flyers, and education programs.

   Neighborhood Services Coordinator

   Participated in the development of the Position Descriptions for the
   Neighborhood Services Coordinators and the development of performance
   indicators. Provided input from the perspective of the Clean City
   Office.

   Community Outreach

   Since being appointed as the Clean City Coordinator Mr. Spaulding has
   attended a variety of ANC, community and civic association meetings and
   has spoken to over 3500 citizens about the Clean City Initiative.

   Other Accomplishments
     * NATO Cleanup - In preparation for a NATO Conference, April 22-24,
       1999, coordinated the cleaning of the city, with concentration on
       the 16 gateways and Federal Triangle area.
     * Clean City Initiative - Established New Initiative for Street
       Cleaning Programs
     * Mount Pleasant Project - >Initiated a pilot program in the Mount
       Pleasant neighborhood to develop a holistic approach to cleaning a
       neighborhood and keeping it clean, with community and DC agencies
       acting in partnership. Similar pilots are being conducted in other
       heavily trafficked areas of the city. (See article from Mt.
       Pleasant Neighborhood Alliance Newsletter.)
     * DC Agencies Workshop - Conducted a workshop to bring together
       representatives from the key DC agencies whose cooperation is
       essential to implementing the Clean City initiative effectively. At
       the workshop, participants identified where agencies interact and
       overlap, made recommendations for improving efficiency, performance
       standards, and sustainability.
     * City Council - Discussed with each City Council member the
       objectives of the Clean City Initiative in order to solicit their
       involvement and to identify opportunities for their support of the
       program.
     * ANC's - Met (and continue to meet) with Advisory Neighborhood
       Commissions and numerous civic associations and business owners to
       get their recommendations and support for the Clean City
       Initiative.
     * DCPS - Introduced the Clean City Initiative to the school system.
       Representatives from the Department of Public Works and the
       Metropolitan Police Department and concerned citizens perform skits
       designed to encourage youth to participate in keeping the city
       clean.
     * Clean City Equipment - Working with the Department of Public Works,
       developed a list of equipment for street sweeping and leaf
       collection at cost of approximately $2 million. This equipment was
       approved by the mayor for acquisition. This equipment will allow
       the introduction of introducing new approaches to cleaning the city
       and will elevate public perception.
     * Latino and Asian Affairs - Established a partnership between the
       Clean City Coordinator's Office and the Mayor's Office of Latino
       Affairs and Office of Asian and Pacific Islanders Affairs to
       solicit their involvement and support. Working with these two
       offices, developed a plan of action for introducing the Clean City
       program into Latino and Asian communities.
     * KAB - Working with DPW and the private sector, took the necessary
       steps to establish a District of Columbia chapter of Keep America
       Beautiful, Inc. This organization will be the catalyst for the
       public-private partnership necessary to educate, develop, and
       support the sense of pride, and promote the programs needed to keep
       our city clean and beautiful.
     * Agency Task Force - Established a task force of agency
       representatives who operationally have a role to play in the
       cleaning of the city.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Homepage Government of the District of Columbia
   441 4th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20001
   Phone (202) 727-1000     Feedback & Comments
