http://religiousfreedom.house.gov/rqa.htm


                                  home

                                     [space.gif]

                                                                              Reading Room


   The Text
   Fact Sheets
   Reading Room
   Q and A
   Press Releases
   Testimonies
   Legal Analysis
   Viewpoints
   Congressional
   Endorsing Groups
   Opinion Polls
   The Process
   Cosponsors
   Committee Action
   Supreme Court
   Other Links
   Comments
   [space.gif]

                             Question and Answer
                                 [gray.gif]

   What is the Religious Freedom Amendment?

   The Religious Freedom Amendment (RFA), as contained in House Joint
   Resolution 78, is a proposed amendment to the United States
   Constitution, to read as follows:

     To secure the people's right to acknowledgeGod according to the
     dictates of conscience: Neither the United States nor any State
     shall establish any official religion, but the people's right to
     pray and to recognize their religious beliefs, heritage, or
     traditions on public property, including schools, shall not be
     infringed. Neither the United States nor any State shall require any
     person to join in prayer or other religious activity, prescribe
     school prayers, discriminate against religion, or deny equal access
     to a benefit on account of religion.*

     [gray.gif]

     *This is the text of the Religious Freedom Amendment, as modified
     and approved by the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the
     Constitution (October 28, 1997), and so differs slightly from the
     text of HJR 78 as originally introduced.

   HJR 78 provides a seven-year period for the states to ratify the RFA
   after approval by Congress. As prescribed in the Constitution (Article
   V):

     Each house of Congress must approve it by a two-thirds margin (no
   Presidential approval is involved, so it cannot be vetoed).

     The Legislatures of three-fourths of the states (38) must then ratify
   it (but within each Legislature only a simple majority vote is
   required, not a two-thirds margin).

   Over 140 members of the House of Representatives are cosponsors. Many
   more are supporting it. More cosponsors are always desired and needed.
   Principal sponsor is Congressman Ernest J. Istook, Jr. (R-OK). The
   measure is bipartisan; the principal sponsor from the other party is
   Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA).

   Questions, Comments, and Answers on the RFA

   1 Does this violate ‘separation of church and state’?

   No, not in the proper meaning of that term. Unfortunately, those who
   are intolerant of other people’s religion have distorted what this
   phrase correctly should mean, and have persuaded our courts to distort
   the First Amendment in the process. Under their approach, as government
   expands into more aspects of life, religion must be pushed aside, to
   assure that ‘separation.’

   The Chief Justice of the U. S. Supreme Court, William Rehnquist, has
   dissented from what the full court has done. As Rehnquist wrote in his
   official dissent, the wrongful focus on the term ‘separation of church
   and state’ has caused a ". . . mischievous diversion of judges from the
   actual intentions of the drafters of the Bill of Rights. . . . The
   ‘wall of separation between church and State’ is a metaphor based on
   bad history, a metaphor which has proved useless as a guide to judging.
   It should be frankly and explicitly abandoned."

   Rather than ‘abandon’ the term, the Religious Freedom Amendment focuses
   on the original and correct meaning of it. The correct standard is the
   First Amendment, which states "Congress shall make no law respecting an
   establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof."
   Unfortunately, the First Amendment’s true meaning has been corrupted
   and ruined by decades of bad Supreme Court interpretations.

   As Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote of the First Amendment: "The evil to
   be aimed at, so far as [its drafters] were concerned, appears to have
   been the establishment of a national church, and perhaps the preference
   of one religious sect over another, but it was definitely not concern
   about whether the Government might aid all religions evenhandedly."

   The Religious Freedom Amendment follows this correct and original
   meaning of the First Amendment, whose elegant language has been
   hopelessly corrupted by court misinterpretations.

   (All quotations are from Chief Justice Rehnquist’s dissent in Wallace
   v. Jaffree, 472 U.S. 38 (1985), in which the Supreme Court invalidated
   a law to permit a moment of silence at public school, because it
   expressly permitted silent prayer.)

   2 We don’t need another constitutional amendment. Freedom of religion
   is already protected under the First Amendment. Students already can
   pray, and can meet in thousands of school Bible clubs. We already have
   the highest degree of religious liberty of anyplace in the world. This
   violates the constitutional principle of separation of church and
   state.

   In recent decades, the Supreme Court and other courts have stripped
   away much of Americans’ rights to religious expression. The issue is
   not how much remains, but instead is how much we have lost.

   In 1962, the Court struck down not just mandatory and
   government-composed prayers, but also prayers overlapping with a school
   activity, even, they said "when observance on the part of the students
   is voluntary." School Bible clubs have restrictions that don’t apply to
   other school clubs. (They cannot meet during school hours, or have an
   advisor, etc.) Many students have been punished for seeking to pray or
   otherwise express their faith.

   Prayer and religious speech are restricted when other speech is not. A
   1992 ruling (Lee v. Weisman) said a graduation prayer was
   unconstitutional, because students shouldn’t be asked to respect
   religious expression. In 1985 (Wallace v. Jaffree) the Court voided a
   moment of silence law, saying it was unconstitutional because it would
   have permitted silent prayer. The phrase "separation of church and
   state" does not come from the Constitution. The Constitution simply
   affirms that America never should make any faith an official or
   required religion, as many other nations do.

   3 This allows government to favor majority religions at the expense of
   others. One faith could be made the official religion, designating us a
   ‘Christian Nation’.

   The RFA does not permit any faith to be given "official" status. The
   First Amendment’s text remains unchanged. ("Congress shall make no law
   respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
   exercise thereof;") The RFA does not repeal this, but simply corrects
   its faulty interpretation by the courts.

   The Bill of Rights was intended to protect not only minorities, but
   instead to protect all of us, minority and majority. The RFA guarantees
   that government must be truly neutral toward religion, rather than
   suppressing it under the pretense of being neutral. People of faith are
   being censored in the name of "freedom"!

   The Supreme Court has ruled the Constitution does not permit the
   banning of symbols of hate, such as a Nazi swastika. Yet it bans
   symbols of love and hope, such as a cross, or a Nativity scene on
   public property. Government agencies have also banned religious items
   and symbols from workers’ desks, including Christian and non-Christian
   items.

   4 How would school prayer work? Who would pray? Who would compose the
   prayers? Would we have only Christian prayers? What about those who
   object and complain that they are a "captive audience"?

   We don’t ask "How could free speech work?" because we know that neither
   the courts nor our government should make that decision for us. The
   same is true with prayer and other religious speech--individuals and
   groups can work together however they see fit, so long as they don’t
   compel anyone else to take part. But contrary to what the ‘political
   correctness’ movement seeks, there is NO constitutional protection from
   hearing something we don’t like. In schools and public settings, we
   learn to be tolerant by respecting differing views.

   The best model to follow is how we conduct the Pledge of Allegiance.
   Most students recite it, but some sit silently, and a few even leave
   the room. The Supreme Court ruled that no student can be compelled to
   say the Pledge, BUT those who object were not permitted to silence
   those who wish to say it. This is the best model for voluntary school
   prayer. Students who wish could rotate and take turns just as they do
   on everything else. It is something simple, just as it was in America’s
   schools for almost 200 years, except that government would not be
   permitted to select a prayer for students, nor require joining in any
   prayer.

   5 Aren’t we just inviting cults, witches and Satanists to come into
   public schools and influence our children?

   Just as free speech does not give a student the right to interrupt and
   change topics in class, the RFA does not permit disruptions. And it
   does not let outside groups come into our schools. Some
   highly-unpopular groups might want an equal chance to offer a prayer on
   extremely rare occasions at some school, but this is no reason to
   censor all prayers across America. It is extremely rare that we hear a
   truly offensive prayer; it would remain that way.

   Those who object strongly may always leave rather than listen to
   somebody’s free speech, but equal treatment does not permit us to
   silence someone simply because we disagree, even in a public place.
   Only normal rules of orderly behavior need be applied, just as free
   speech does not allow someone to yell, "Fire!" in a crowded theater.

   6 Children should be taught religion at home and church, not at school.
   They have plenty of time and opportunity to pray in other places; they
   don’t need to do so at school.

   The RFA is not about teaching religious doctrine, but about permitting
   people to keep their faith as a normal part of everyday life. If we
   only have freedom of religion when we are at home or at church, we do
   not have true freedom of religion. We would never give up the right to
   free speech except at home, church, or some other limited places.

   7 This is about money, not about prayer or religion. The federal
   Treasury should not be funding churches and religious groups, or
   vouchers for church schools.

   We have a long history of cooperative efforts for the common good, and
   religious groups have a solid established place, which is now being
   attacked. Students attending church colleges and universities should
   still qualify for GI Bill benefits and student loans. Faith-based
   charities have a better record of success than most in helping people
   recover from poverty, drug or alcohol abuse, or other problems.

                                 [seal.gif]
                                  [mb1.gif]
