http://www.cslb.ca.gov/services/forms.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                           CSLB Home
                           Consumers
                           Applicants
                           Contractors
                           Laws & Regulations
                           Services & Publications
                           News & Events
                           What's New at CSLB!
                           About CSLB



                         Contact CSLB
                             Call 1-800-321-CSLB
                             or e-mail our licensing
                             or our technical staff.



          Contractors State License Board



                                             __________ search
                                            ( )  My CA    (*)  CSLB

          Order Forms & Applications


   Application for Contractor's License (to be used for 7065 waiver only -
   see criteria below)

   This application for original contractor's license is to be used for
   7065 waiver only applicants (e.g. sole owner applying for a corporate
   license). Section 7065 of the Contractors License Law states in part
   "No examination shall be required of a qualifying individual if, within
   the five-year period immediately preceding the application for
   licensure, the qualifying individual has either personally passed the
   written examination for the same classification being applied for, or
   has served as the qualifying individual for a licensee whose license
   was in good standing at any time during the five-year period
   immediately preceding the application for licensure and in the same
   classification being applied for."

   At any time WITHIN THE LAST FIVE YEARS, has the applicant/qualifying
   individual:

   been listed on Board records as the qualifier for a license which was
   in good standing in the same class being applied for, OR

   personally passed both the law and trade portions of the written exam
   in the same class being applied for.

   If yes, this application is appropriate.

   If no, please order an Application for Original Contractors License.

                    Application for Contractor's License

        This application for original contractor's license is for new
        applicants when experience and/or an examination is required.

               Section 9 Continued (for additional personnel)

   This form is to be completed and submitted along with the Application
   for Contractor's License when there are additional personnel to report
   on behalf of the applicant.

                  Application for Additional Classification

   The application for additional classification is to be used only for
   adding classifications to an existing license. You can add any
   classification to an existing license for which you have qualifying
   experience and for which you pass the applicable examination.

   Qualifiers are limited in the number of additional licenses which they
   may qualify. Factors such as common ownership between or among the
   entities being qualified are considered. Starting in 1992, persons
   granted qualifier status were restricted to qualifying no more than
   three firms in any one-year period.

   A responsible managing employee must inactivate his or her sole
   proprietor license to qualify for another license, and meet certain
   employment requirements. On a sole proprietor license, the RME may be
   replaced by the owner or by another RME. On a partnership license the
   RME may be replaced by a general partner or by another RME. Note,
   however, than an additional general partner may not be added to an
   existing partnership license. On a corporate license, the RME may be
   replaced by a responsible managing officer or employee.

             Application for Replacing the Qualifying Individual

   The application for replacing qualifying individual is to be used only
   for replacing the qualifying person on a license. You can replace
   qualifying individuals on a sole proprietorship with the owner or
   another qualified responsible managing employee; on a partnership with
   a partner or another qualified responsible managing employee; and on a
   corporation with another qualified responsible managing employee or
   another qualified responsible managing officer.

   Replacement of the qualifier must be made within 90 days of
   disassociation to avoid a suspension of the license. Notification can
   be made by the owner, partner or officer, or the qualifier who is
   leaving. Notification may be by letter or by using the Notice of
   Disassociation. Replacement of the qualifier may be made by submitting
   the Application for Replacing the Qualifying Individual, and
   appropriate fees.

   Qualifiers are limited in the number of additional licenses which they
   may qualify. Factors such as common ownership between or among the
   entities being qualified are considered. Starting in 1992, persons
   granted qualifier status were restricted to qualifying no more than
   three firms in any one-year period.

   A responsible managing employee must inactivate his or her sole
   proprietor license to qualify for another license, and meet certain
   employment requirements. On a sole proprietor license, the RME may be
   replaced by the owner or by another RME. On a partnership license the
   RME may be replaced by a general partner or by another RME. Note,
   however, than an additional general partner may not be added to an
   existing partnership license. On a corporate license, the RME may be
   replaced by a responsible managing officer or employee.

   Failure to replace the disassociated RME or RMO within 90 days from the
   date of his or her disassociation will result in the automatic
   suspension of a license which is on active status. If the license has
   more than one classification, and the qualifier for the other class or
   classes remains on the license, the licensee may continue to operate in
   the remaining class or classes. The class qualified by the person who
   disassociated will be removed at the end of the 90 days unless
   replacement is made within that time.

    Changing Business Name and/or Address or Certified Wall and/or Pocket
                                 Certificate

   The application for changing business name and/or address is for use by
   licensees or applicants to report changes in their mailing addresses or
   to make allowable changes to their business names. Business name style
   changes generally may be made to those names which do not indicate that
   a licensee is operating in a classification not on the license, or to
   names indicating a different licensed entity; for example, a sole
   proprietorship license cannot add the word "Corporation" to the
   business name.

   Certified copies of the wall certificate and/or renewal pocket
   certificate may be ordered by the license holder only. Use the
   appropriate section of the name and address form. There is a $2 fee for
   each certified copy requested.

                  Report Current Officers of a Corporation

   The application to change officers of corporations should be completed
   to report officers who are to be removed from the Board's records for
   existing corporate licenses and to report all current officers. It
   cannot be used to change or disassociate a responsible managing officer
   or employee.

                             Cancellation Notice

   This form is to be used to cancel an individual, partnership, corporate
   or joint venture license. The request must be received at the Boards
   Headquarters office within 90 days of the effective date of
   cancellation.

   TO CANCEL AN INDIVIDUAL LICENSE: The signature of the owner is
   required. TO CANCEL A PARTNERSHIP LICENSE: The signature of a partner
   is required. TO CANCEL A CORPORATE LICENSE: Your cancellation request
   must EITHER BE: (a) signed by the president and another officer listed
   on our records; (b) signed by two officers listed on our records; or
   (c) accompanied by a copy of the companys final dissolution documents
   filed with the California Secretary of State. TO CANCEL A JOINT VENTURE
   LICENSE: The signature of an individual listed on one of the entities
   is required.

                       Duplicate or Delinquent Renewal

   The application to renew a contractors license is sent to current
   licensees by the Board about 60 days before expiration date. However,
   if, by 4 weeks before the expiration date, you have not received your
   renewal, request a duplicate renewal. This often happens if you move
   without providing the Board with a current mailing address for the
   license or if the Post Office is not forwarding your mail. If you order
   another renewal, please be sure you indicate a current address where it
   should be sent. A license can be renewed as a delinquent renewal for up
   to 3 years after it expires, as long as there is no change of ownership
   of the license--that is, the same owner, or same partners, or same
   corporation as was previously licensed will be renewing. When ordering
   a renewal, you will be asked for the business name of the license, the
   license number and license expiration date, so please have this
   information ready.

   If the license you wish to renew expires in a couple of months the
   renewal will be mailed to the address of record. Please do not order a
   duplicate renewal unless you have not received the renewal by 3 to 4
   weeks before your license expiration date.

                        Application for Reactivation

   A license which is currently renewed but is on inactive status may be
   restored to active status by filing the Application to Reactivate
   Inactive State Contractor's License. Some restrictions apply--these are
   explained on the application. If you consider your license to be
   "inactive" but it has actually expired and the expiration date is
   within 3 years, order a renewal application. If your license expired
   more than 3 years ago, you must file an original application to
   reassign the license number.

        Responsible Managing Officer or Qualifying Partner Exemption
                                 Certificate


           Application to Inactivate a State Contractor's License

    To inactivate a license, order an application to inactivate state
    contractor's license. There is no fee for inactivation. You must turn
    in your active pocket license with the request for inactivation.

             Application for Joint Venture Contractor's License

   A joint venture license may be issued to any combination of two or more
   licenses issued to sole proprietors, partnerships, corporations or
   other joint licenses which are currently in effect and in good
   standing. The joint venture license may be issued in any classification
   held by at least one of the entities.

                            Disassociation Notice

   If the responsible managing officer or responsible managing employee
   disassociates from the licensed entity, the licensee or qualifier may
   use the notice of disassociation to make a signed statement of the
   exact date the RMO or RME left. Note that notice must be given, and the
   qualifier replaced, within 90 days from the date of disassociation to
   avoid suspension of the license. Use the application for additional
   classification or replacing the qualifying individual to replace the
   RMO or RME.

                              Contractor's Bond

   You may obtain a bond form from either the bonding company or the
   Contractors State License Board. Certificates of deposit or assignments
   from banks, savings and loan firms or credit unions may be submitted as
   cash alternatives to meet the bonding requirements. There are several
   special requirements for the deposits, as well as special assignment
   forms which are usually available at the issuing banks or savings
   institutions. Please note that all cash alternatives to bonds must be
   retained by the Contractors Board for 2 years after the end of the last
   license period they cover, or for 2 years following the completion of
   the requirement. You must obtain an exemption certification to
   establish an exemption to the bond of qualifying individual for a
   responsible managing officer on a corporation license. To qualify for
   an exemption from this bonding requirement, the qualifying officer must
   own 10% or more of the voting stock or equity of the corporation.

          Request for Current Bond Information (Bond Status Letter)

   A Bond Status Letter provides information on current surety bonds on a
   license plus some current status information about the license. A fee
   of $5 must accompany the request. Persons who intend to make a claim
   against a contractor's bond or cash deposit should request a Bond
   Status Letter. Allow about 4 weeks for a response.

                        Bond of Qualifying Individual


                    Exemption from Workers' Compensation

   All licenses on active status, and all applicants for issuance of the
   license, must file evidence of workers' compensation or exemption from
   the requirements. The Certificate of Workers' Compensation Insurance is
   provided by the workers' compensation insurer. A certificate of consent
   to self-insure is secured from the Director of Industrial Relations. If
   the license is on inactive status with the board, the certificate does
   not have to be filed. Contractors who do not hire employees and who are
   exempt from this requirement should file the "Exemption from Workers'
   Compensation".

               Request for Legal Action Disclosure Information

   The Contractors State License Board can provide the public with the
   nature of complaints which have been investigated and referred for
   legal action, and any legal action which has been taken by the Board
   against a license.

   The fact that a complaint against a contractor has been referred for
   legal action does not mean that the contractor has necessarily
   committed a violation of the contractors license law; no conclusion or
   judgments as to the validity of the charges should be assumed until the
   legal action has been completed.

   After you have checked the license information for a particular
   contractor and if the status information indicated a past or pending
   legal action, you can call the Board's legal action disclosure number
   nearest your construction location for further details.
   Northern Case Management    (916) 255-4041
       Southern Case Management   (562) 466-6021

                   Application for Asbestos Certification

   The application for asbestos certification is to be used by currently
   licensed contractors who bid for or do asbestos-related contracting.
   When a licensee has qualified for this certification, it will be added
   to the license much like an additional classification. In order to
   obtain the asbestos certification, a contractor must be registered with
   the Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA).

   Please note that this application is not for the asbestos open-book
   examination which is required for asbestos awareness purposes by all
   applicants for license. That booklet is furnished to applicants with
   their notices to comply with issuance requirements.

          Application for Hazardous Substance Removal Certification

   Contractors who perform hazardous substance removal work at specific
   sites and/or who bid for the installation or removal of, or install or
   remove, underground storage tanks, must complete the application for
   hazardous substances certification to add the certification to their
   existing licenses. Eligibility for this certification is basically
   limited to licenses having the class A, general engineering, or class
   C-12, earthwork and paving, or, in some instances, the class B, general
   building license. The certification may also be applied for by
   licensees holding the class C-36, plumbing, or the class C-61, limited
   specialty category for service station equipment and maintenance.

   Note: On the pdf file the instruction sheet (page 2) of the Hazardous
   Application is of poor quality. As soon as a new one becomes available
   this will be fixed.

                           Consumer Complaint Form

   Complaints against contractors may be filed with the Contractors State
   License Board by homeowners, other contractors, subcontractors and
   employees. Other public agencies may also file complaints. Complaints
   within the Board's jurisdiction involve failure of a licensed
   contractor to fulfill the terms of an agreement. Failures include poor
   workmanship; abandonment of a project; failure to pay subcontractors,
   material suppliers or employees; or building code violations. Other
   failures are lack of reasonable diligence in executing a construction
   project; use of false, misleading or deceptive advertising; and
   violations of the Home Improvement Act or Swimming Pool Act.

   The Board also investigates complaints involving unlicensed contracting
   activities. It is illegal for an unlicensed person to perform
   contracting work on any project for which the contract price is $500 or
   more, including labor and materials.

   In general, the Board has jurisdiction over licensed and unlicensed
   contractors for up to 4 years.

   Complaints must be filed in writing with the Board. The Board's
   standard complaint form may be obtained by calling the Board's
   toll-free automated information phone line 1-800-321-CSLB; writing P.O.
   Box 269116, Sacramento, CA 95827; or ordering on-line. When you have
   filled out the complaint form, you can print it and attach copies of
   contracts, canceled checks or other information pertinent to your
   complaint and mail it to one of the following addresses:
   For complaints on work performed in the counties of Imperial, Los
       Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego, send the
       complaint form to the Norwalk Intake/Mediation Center, 12501 East
       Imperial Highway, Suite 620, Norwalk, CA 90650.

   For complaints on work performed in all other counties in California,
       send the complaint form to the Sacramento Intake/Mediation Center,
       P.O. Box 269116, Sacramento, CA 95826-9116.

   If you wish to file the complaint electronically, you can click on the
   button at the end of the complaint form. Please retain your documents
   until you receive a letter with your unique complaint number and the
   name of the CSLB staff person who will be handling your complaint. You
   can send the contracts, canceled checks, etc., when you return this
   contact letter.

   Complaints are processed according to their degree of severity and
   their date of receipt. A consumer services representative will contact
   both the complainant and the contractor to attempt to mediate the
   complaint. If mediation is not successful, the complaint may either be
   referred to the CSLB's arbitration program or assigned to a deputy
   registrar for investigation.

             CSLB Client Services Complaint and Suggestion Form

       Form for making suggestions or filing complaints concerning the
       services provided by the Contractors State License Board.

       Application for Registration as a Home Improvement Salesperson

    The application for registration as a home improvement salesperson is
    for persons employed by a licensed contractor to solicit, sell,
    negotiate or execute home improvement contracts. A home improvement
    salesperson must register separately for each contractor he or she
    represents.

          Information on Alternatives in Lieu of Bond Requirements


        Request for Certified License History (Verified Certificate)

   A Verified Certificate is a certified license history covering a
   specific time period. The Verified Certificate is used mainly for court
   actions involving contractors. It is admissible in court as prima facie
   evidence of the facts stated on the certificate. The document covers
   the last 3 years of the license status unless otherwise requested. The
   Verified Certificate contains the contractors business name and
   address, trade classifications held, license issue date, the license
   personnel, bonding information if requested, any legal actions taken
   against the license, and the standing of the license at all times
   during the period covered by the certificate.

   Recent California legislation requires any contractor who brings a
   court action for the collection of compensation, to provide a Verified
   Certificate as proof of valid licensure during the time of the contract
   or work. Upon request, the Board also prepares statements of the
   absence of a license during a given time period, that is, a "no record
   verified certificate". To identify the non-licensed subject, you will
   need to provide the person's full name, business name if applicable,
   address or location where the work is being done, type of work being
   performed, and the time period of the contract or work.

   The fee for each Verified Certificate is $14, which must accompany your
   request. A large number of requests are backlogged. It may take 3
   months to receive your certificate. If you have a court date coming up
   sooner, please provide proof of your court date with your request.

              Request for Verification of License (Reciprocity)

   The Request for Verification of License form is for contractor's who
   have been licensed in a state which has a reciprocal license agreement
   with California. Currently, California has "reciprocity" with Arizona,
   Nevada and Utah. If a contractor has held a valid license in one of
   these states for the past five (5) years and is applying for a similar
   license in California, he/she may be eligible for a waiver of the trade
   exam. The bottom portion of the Request for Verification of License
   form must be completed by the licensing agency in the state where the
   contractor was previously licensed.

      Home Improvement Salesperson Certified License History (Verified
                                Certificate)

   A Verified Certificate of Home Improvement Salesperson provides the
   salesperson's registration number, the business name and license number
   of the home improvement contractor with whom the salesperson is
   registered, and the issuance and expiration dates of the registration.
   If the person is not registered as a home improvement salesperson, or
   not registered with a specific contractor, a "no record" certificate is
   issued. This document is admissable in court as prima facie evidence of
   the facts stated in the history.

   A fee of $4.00 and a written request is required for a Verified
   Certificate of Home Improvement Salesperson. Your written request
   should include as much information as you have on the salesperson
   (name, address, registration number, etc.). Allow about 3 weeks for a
   response.

                      Request for General Status Letter

   A General Status letter provides current information about a license. A
   fee of $2 must accompany your request for a General Status Letter. The
   Information includes the business name and address, classifications
   held, owners, partners, or officers and qualifying persons, and current
   standing. The General Status Letter does not contain license history or
   bonding information. Please allow 2 or 3 weeks for a response.

                Special Accommodation Request for Examination


                         Copies of Public Documents

    The Board can provide copies of public records or other records from
   which personal or confidential information, such as birth dates, Social
   Security numbers, residence addresses, experience records and financial
                        information will be deleted.

    Copies of investigation reports normally cannot be released. However,
       copies of legal actions, such as the formal case accusation and
                  decision, or citations, may be provided.

    Copies of the contractors bonds and other documents, with personal or
     confidential information deleted, may be obtained from a licensee's
   file. There is a 10-cent-per-page charge for copies. Certification of a
       copied document costs $2 more. Licensees may request copies of
     documents from their own files without charge unless they want the
   copies certified. Subpoenas for any of the Board's documents or records
        must be personally served on the Custodian of Records of the
    Contractors Board at the headquarters office location, 9821 Business
       Park Drive, Sacramento, 95827. If you want to request copies of
   documents or inquire about the availability of copies of specific types
    of documents, send a written inquiry to the Contractors State License
                 Board at P.O. Box 26000, Sacramento, 95826.

             Public Sales Order Form - List, Labels, & Diskettes

   Special information requests for lists, labels (avery or cheshire) and
   diskettes are available. With this form, you may request information
   from a variety of parameters which include a selection criteria from
   geographical areas, license status and/or contractor's classifications.
   All lists, labels and diskettes include license number, business name
   and business address. Lists and diskettes will also include license
   classification(s) and other additional data. NO TELEPHONE NUMBERS WILL
   BE PROVIDED.

   Special information charges vary depending upon the type and amount of
   information requested. The minimum fee for this service is $100.00
   (non-refundable), which includes the Data Services set-up fee and up to
   the first 2,500 contractor's business names. The charge for each name
   after the first 2,500 is:
   $.04 for each name after 2,500 for lists and labels and
       $.02 for each name after 2,500 for diskettes.

   For more information contact CSLB Data Services Unit at (916) 255-3975
   or send e-mail.

                 CSLB Order Form for CD Rom/Cartridge Tapes

      CSLB license information is available on CD rom and 38k cartridge
      formats. Both CD's and cartridges are produced once a month. The price
      for this service is:

   License Master Full File


                                          $4,000.00

   Business Principle Full File


                                          $2,000.00

   License Action and Citation Full File


                                          $2,000.00

   Monthly updates per file is:


                                          $250.00

      For more information contact CSLB Data Services Unit at (916) 255-3975
      or send e-mail.

   Back to Top of Page
   © 2001 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
