http://www.ott.doe.gov/whats_new.shtml

   Skip Navigation to Main Content

   OTT Logo Office of Transportation Technologies
   Home What's New? Calendar of Events Site Map/Index
   About Us Partnerships Technologies Search ____________ Search

   What's New


   This page provides news and information regarding the latest activities
   in the alternative fuels industry and describes new items added to this
   Web site. You can view some publications as text-only (HTML) and others
   as fully formatted documents with graphics in Adobe PDF. Download
   Acrobat Reader.
   New Documents in the Database AFV Periodicals
   January 2002
     * SCAQMD Funds CNG Taxi Purchases
       California's South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD)
       agreed to provide almost $3 million in funding to encourage the
       purchase of compressed natural gas (CNG) taxis. These new
       alternative fuel vehicles will serve regional airports and allow
       cab operators to comply with the January 1, 2002 ruling which
       requires all new airport taxi purchases to be clean burning
       vehicles. SCAQMD funding will enable taxicab operators to purchase
       more than 300 new Ford Crown Victoria CNG sedans. Full Story.
     * CEC Funds Natural Gas and Propane Refueling Stations
       The California Energy Commission (CEC) announced that it would
       provide grants to help build natural gas and propane refueling
       stations for public vehicle fleets in the state. CEC grant money
       will cover up to one-fifth the total cost of city, corporate, and
       other independent agency alternative fuel infrastructure projects
       estimated at approximately $13 million. Projects covered by CEC
       grant money are part of the agency's Alternative Fuels
       Infrastructure program, which is designed to help the state meet
       air quality standards and reduce the consumption of petroleum based
       fuels. For more information on the CEC Alternative Fuels
       Infrastructure program please visit the CEC Web site or contact:
       Percy Della
       Phone: (916) 654-4989
       E-mail: pdella@energy.state.ca.us
     * New York Spending $4.2 Million On Clean-Fueled Buses
       On December 26, 2001, Governor George E. Pataki announced that the
       state will use $4.2 million in Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act funds
       to purchase 128 compressed natural gas buses and 35 hybrid-electric
       buses for use in New York City, Syracuse, and Long Island. The
       Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act funding is targeted at reducing
       pollution in urban areas and curtailing the state's greenhouse gas
       emissions. Purchase of the buses also will provide significant
       economic benefits for a number of upstate manufacturers. More
       information is available at www.nyserda.org/pressother2001.html.
     * FuelMaker Corporation and Honda have teamed up to make a special
       offer to Clean Cities Coordinators and stakeholders. Details about
       the offer are on the FuelMaker Web site.
     * Bush Administration Backs Fuel Cells, Cuts Fuel Efficient Vehicle
       Program
       Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham announced that the Bush
       Administration plans to help American automakers develop fuel cell
       cars that run on hydrogen. Abraham's announcement was made at the
       Detroit Auto Show where the big three U.S. automakers rolled out
       their futuristic fuel cell concept cars. Bush's Freedom Car program
       will help U.S. auto manufacturers to produce less expensive, more
       efficient, and more reliable versions of their fuel cell concept
       vehicles. If successful, the program could bring an end to the
       internal combustion engine that has dominated American roads for
       more than a century. The shift to a hydrogen-based transportation
       economy would also mean an end to U.S. dependence on foreign oil,
       and the elimination of pollution caused by vehicle emissions. Fuel
       cells produce energy from a chemical reaction that occurs when
       hydrogen is combined with oxygen. When pure hydrogen is used, heat
       and water are the only byproducts of the reaction.
       The Freedom Car project will be pursued at the expense of a Clinton
       era program designed to quadruple the fuel economy of U.S. cars by
       2004. The Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles was
       established in 1993 as a joint venture between the government and
       the big three domestic automakers. Although the program resulted in
       significant innovations in aerodynamics, new engine technologies,
       and lighter composite materials for vehicles, Bush officials say
       that promoting the production of fuel cell cars is the right choice
       for America's future. Full Story.
     * Millenium Cell Hydrogen System Powers DaimlerChrysler Minivan
       DaimlerChrysler unveiled its new fuel cell Town and Country Natrium
       mini-van at the Electric Transportation Industry Conference and
       Exposition in Sacramento, California. This third-generation fuel
       cell-powered automobile is the first of its kind to integrate an
       on-demand hydrogen system that is contained onboard the vehicle. It
       is also the first fuel cell vehicle capable of traveling as far as
       300 miles without refueling. The production of the fuel cell
       Natrium involved over 18 months of collaboration between
       DaimlerChrysler's Liberty and Technical Affairs Group and
       Millennium Cell Inc., developers of the on-board hydrogen fuel
       system.
       Millennium Cell's on Demand™ fuel system uses a material derived
       from sodium borate (more commonly known as borax), to produce the
       hydrogen used to power the fuel cell. Electricity generated from
       the chemical reaction that takes place inside the fuel cell is then
       used to run the vehicle's electric motors. Borax is an
       environmentally friendly material that can be found in abundant
       quantities throughout the world. Full Story.
     * AVS Electric Buses to Begin Service in Lower Manhattan
       Advanced Vehicle Systems (AVS) of Chattanooga, Tennessee announced
       the sale of eight UltraPower™ electric buses to New York City.
       These zero emission vehicles will provide shuttle service to roots
       in lower Manhattan, and improve access to businesses and
       restaurants in the area devastated by the Word Trade Center
       bombings. The AVS UltraPower™ bus uses a new energy storage
       technology that combines traditional batteries with
       ultracapacitors. This combination of batteries and ultracapacitors
       will help increase both the life and efficiency of the system by
       allowing the bus to go through more charging cycles. Use of the new
       energy storage system will also increase the amount of "free"
       energy that can be recovered from regenerative braking in
       stop-and-go city traffic. New buses are expected to begin service
       in the downtown area by next summer.

   2001 News
   2000 News
   1999 News
   1998 News
   1997 News

   Skip Footer Navigation to End of Page
   OTT Home | DOE | Webmaster | Feedback
   Last updated: 10/26/01
