http://www.natice.noaa.gov/home.htm

                                  NIC Logo


                                 NIC Banner


   Navigation Bar
   New Press Release

      In Memory of AG1(SW) Edward T. Earhart and AG2 Matthew M. Flocco
     WARNING: U.S. Government Automated Information Systems and Related
   Equipment are intended for the communication, transmission, processing,
   and storage of U.S. Government Information. These systems and equipment
     are subject to monitoring to ensure proper functioning, to protect
      against improper or unauthorized use or access, and to verify the
   presence or performance of applicable security features or procedures,
       and for other like purposes. Such monitoring may result in the
    acquisition, recording, and analysis of all data being communicated,
        transmitted, processed or stored in this system by a user. If
       monitoring reveals evidence of possible criminal activity, such
     evidence may be provided to law enforcement personnel. Use of this
               system constitutes consent to such monitoring.
   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Government nor any of its employees,
    makes any warranty, expressed or implied, including the warranties of
    merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any
    legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or
        usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process
     disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately
                                owned rights.



       NOAA Privacy Notice
                          Freedom of Information Act
                                                    Directions to NIC


                             National Ice Center
                             Federal Building #4
                             4251 Suitland Road
                            Washington D.C. 20395
                               (301) 457-5303

   Email comments regarding Products and Services to: National Ice Center
                                   Liaison
      For problems with the website (broken links, etc.), please email
                   comments to: webmaster@natice.noaa.gov
                          Updated on June 25, 2001
