http://cwc.anl.gov/ch7.htm



     CHAPTER 7

   DECLARATIONS

               [cwc.jpg]

      Table Of Contents

      CHAPTER 1 -- GIVING THE CWC FORCE AND EFFECT
      CHAPTER 2 -- THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY
      CHAPTER 3 -- DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
      CHAPTER 4 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CHEMICALS
      CHAPTER 5 -- PENAL LEGISLATION
      CHAPTER 6 -- LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

      CHAPTER 7 -- DECLARATIONS
      7.1 Relevant CWC Provisions

      7.1.1 Declarations Regarding Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
          7.1.2 Declarations Regarding Scheduled Chemicals and Facilities
          Used for Purposes Not Prohibited

      7.1.2.1 Declarations for Schedule 1 Chemicals and Related Facilities
          7.1.2.2 Declarations for Schedule 2 Chemicals and Related
          Facilities
          7.1.2.3 Declarations for Schedule 3 Chemicals and Related
          Facilities
          7.1.2.4 Declarations for Other Chemical Production Facilities

   7.2 State Party Implementation Options: Collecting Information for
   Declarations
   7.2.1 Inter-Governmental Transfers of Information
       7.2.2 Chemical Industry Reporting

   7.2.2.1 Options to Require Reporting
       7.2.2.2 Options to Penalize Non-Compliance with Reporting
       Requirements

   Conclusions CHAPTER 8 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF SITES
   AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS
   CHAPTER 9 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II -- ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND CONDUCT
   OF INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 10 -- CHALLENGE INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 11 -- CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   CHAPTER 12 -- REMEDIES
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation


                                  CHAPTER 7
     __________________________________________________________________

                                DECLARATIONS

   The CWC requires each State Party to make a series of "declarations" to
   the OPCW regarding items and activities relevant to chemical weapons.
   The declaration requirements are contained in two articles of the
   Convention. Article III obligates each State Party to make various
   declarations about chemical weapons, abandoned chemical weapons, old
   chemical weapons, chemical weapons production facilities, various other
   facilities, and riot control agents. Article VI requires declarations
   for activities involving scheduled chemicals that are not prohibited
   under the CWC. The Verification Annex contains additional obligations.

   This Chapter contains two sections. Section 1 summarizes the
   declaration requirements; for the most accurate understanding of these
   obligations, the text of the CWC should be consulted. Section 2
   presents several options States Parties may consider in order to make
   compliance easier and more accurate.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   7.1 Relevant CWC Provisions

   Declarations to the OPCW include initial declarations and annual
   declarations. Initial declarations must be made when the CWC enters
   into force for each State Party. For a State Party with neither
   chemical weapons nor chemical weapons production facilities and no
   chemical industry, initial declarations may be the only declarations it
   must ever make. Depending on the content of a State Party's initial
   declarations, it may have to make annual declarations about materials,
   activities, or facilities for which it is responsible. Some
   declarations may need revision to keep them up to date. For example,
   Article III, para. 1(e) requires any State Party that initially
   declares that it holds riot control agents to update its declaration
   within thirty days of any changes in the types of agents in its
   inventory.

   Broadly viewed, declarations relate to two distinct types of
   activities: (1) possession and destruction of chemical weapons and
   their production facilities, and (2) production and possession of
   chemicals listed on the CWC's Schedule of Chemicals and used for
   purposes not prohibited by the CWC.

   7.1.1 Declarations Regarding Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities

   Regardless of whether a State Party possesses chemical weapons, Article
   III requires it to make a series of initial declarations with respect
   to its chemical weapons inventory and infrastructure. These initial
   declarations include information regarding chemical weapons, old and
   abandoned chemical weapons, chemical weapons production facilities,
   various other facilities, and riot control agents. As to some of these
   items, the declarations must trace the State Party's activities back to
   1 January 1946. If a State Party declares that it owns or possesses
   either chemical weapons or any chemical weapons production facility,
   its declaration must also provide its general plan for their
   destruction. All of these declarations must be made to the OPCW within
   thirty days after the Convention enters into force for each State
   Party.

   7.1.2 Declarations Regarding Scheduled Chemicals and Facilities Used
   for Purposes Not Prohibited

   Article VI requires declarations of relevant chemicals and facilities
   used for purposes not prohibited in accordance with the Verification
   Annex. These declarations will probably make up the bulk of what States
   Parties declare to the OPCW. Not later than thirty days after the CWC
   enters into force for it, each State Party shall make an initial
   declaration to be followed by annual declarations.

   Compliance with the Convention's declaration obligations requires
   understanding the three "Schedules" in the Annex on Chemicals.
   Developed in accordance with the "Guidelines for Schedules of
   Chemicals" in Section A of the Annex on Chemicals, each schedule
   includes chemicals that are subjected to CWC requirements, including
   declarations.

   The information to be declared varies with the schedule triggering the
   declaration as specified in Parts VI-IX of the Verification Annex. More
   detailed information must be provided about Schedule 1 chemicals and
   related facilities than about Schedule 2 chemicals, and even less about
   Schedule 3 chemicals. For example, declarations regarding Schedule 1
   chemicals and related facilities include considerable detailed
   information about the chemicals and related facilities, while
   declarations regarding Schedule 2 and Schedule 3 chemicals and related
   facilities focus on aggregate national data, on plant sites, and on
   past production of these chemicals that were used for chemical weapons
   purposes. Similarly, declarations of Schedule 2 chemicals and related
   facilities must include the quantities of Schedule 2 chemicals produced
   or consumed at each plant site, whereas Schedule 3 declarations only
   require declarations of plant sites where these chemicals are produced.
   In addition, declarations must be made regarding facilities that
   manufacture organic chemicals beyond certain threshold quantities.

   7.1.2.1 Declarations for Schedule 1 Chemicals and Related Facilities

   The Verification Annex, Part VI, Section D sets out the requirements
   for declarations applicable to the production, acquisition,
   consumption, use or storage of Schedule 1 chemicals and the operation
   of allowed production facilities. In general, initial declarations must
   contain information that identifies facilities allowed to produce
   Schedule 1 chemicals and that provides the precise location and a
   detailed technical description of each facility. Moreover, initial
   declarations on new facilities must be provided 180 days before
   operations begin. Each State Party must notify the OPCW of planned
   changes related to its initial declaration not less than 180 days
   before changes are to take place.

   Annual declarations must include detailed information regarding the
   past year's activities and must be submitted not later than 90 days
   after the end of that year. Furthermore, annual declarations regarding
   the projected activities and the anticipated production for the coming
   year must be made not less than 90 days before the beginning of that
   year. Finally, the Verification Annex, Part VI, Section B, para. 6
   requires both a transferring and receiving State Party to notify the
   Technical Secretariat of any transfer of Schedule 1 chemicals between
   them not less than 30 days before the transfer, and requires annual
   declarations regarding these transfers not later than 90 days after
   year's end.

   7.1.2.2 Declarations for Schedule 2 Chemicals and Related Facilities

   The Verification Annex, Part VII, Section A sets out the requirements
   for declarations that apply to the production, processing, consumption,
   import and export of each Schedule 2 chemical. These declarations are
   of three types.

   Declarations of Aggregate National Data for the quantities of each
   Schedule 2 chemical produced, processed, consumed, imported, and
   exported. Information must (1) identify the chemical, (2) specify
   quantities, and (3) indicate the purposes for the chemical including a
   specification of the final product types. In regard to imports and
   exports, these declarations must list the countries to and from which
   Schedule 2 chemicals were traded. These declarations must be submitted
   initially within 30 days after entry into force for the State Party;
   annual declarations for the previous calendar year must be submitted
   within 90 days after the end of the previous calendar year.

   Declarations for Plant Sites for each plant site that comprises one or
   more plant(s) that produced, processed or consumed during any of the
   previous three years or is anticipated to do so in the next calendar
   year more than the threshold amounts of Schedule 2 chemicals.^(101)
   These declarations must report each plant's production capacity as well
   as processing and consumption quantities for each Schedule 2 chemical;
   the activities of the plant in relation to Schedule 2 chemicals; and
   whether the plant's purpose is for CW purposes, exclusively for
   Schedule 2 purposes, or is multi-purpose. Design information is not
   required, but information must be provided that identifies the owner
   and location of the plant site. Information concerning each plant's
   sale or transfer of Schedule 2 chemicals, including its destination and
   final product type (if known), must be reported. The deadlines for
   these declarations are the same as for aggregate national data except
   that annual declarations on anticipated activities must be submitted
   not later than 60 days before the beginning of the following calendar
   year.

   Declarations on Past Production for CW Purposes for each plant site
   comprising plants that produced at any time since 1 January 1946 a
   Schedule 2 chemical for chemical weapons purposes. These declarations
   must report each plant's production quantities and the delivery
   destinations for the Schedule 2 chemicals. These declarations must be
   submitted not later than 30 days after the CWC enters into force for
   the State Party.

   7.1.2.3 Declarations for Schedule 3 Chemicals and Related Facilities

   The Verification Annex, Part VIII, Section A sets out the requirements
   for declarations that apply to each Schedule 3 chemical. The
   requirements for these declarations, including the deadlines for
   submission are virtually identical to the requirements for declarations
   of Schedule 2 chemicals. Again, initial and annual declarations of
   Schedule 3 chemicals and related facilities must be made including
   aggregate national data for the previous calendar year's activities,
   and within 30 days after the CWC enters into force for it, declarations
   must be submitted of all plant sites comprising plants that produced at
   any time since 1 January 1946 a Schedule 2 chemical for chemical
   weapons purposes.

   Initial and annual declarations of plant sites are also required for
   all plant sites that comprise one or more plants that produced during
   the previous calendar year or are anticipated to produce in the next
   calendar year more than 30 tonnes of a Schedule 3 chemical. While the
   deadlines for submitting these declarations regarding Schedule 3
   chemicals and related facilities are identical to those regarding
   Schedule 2 chemicals, the information to be reported includes only the
   plant name, location, and its main activities. Information about the
   plant's production capacity, its activities with respect to Scheduled
   chemicals, and its sale or transfer of Scheduled chemicals need not be
   reported.

   7.1.2.4 Declarations for Other Chemical Production Facilities

   The Verification Annex, Part IX, Section A sets out the declaration
   requirements that apply to the other specified chemical production
   facilities. Each State Party must submit, within 30 days after the CWC
   enters into force for it, as part of its initial declarations, a list
   of its "other" chemical production facilities.^(102) The reported
   information must include the plant name, location, and main activities;
   the aggregate amount of production must also be expressed in stipulated
   ranges. Thereafter, annual declarations must provide the information
   necessary to update the list, including data on the approximate
   aggregate amount of production of the unscheduled discrete organic
   chemicals in the previous calendar year also expressed in ranges. As
   with annual declarations for Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals, these
   declarations must be submitted within 90 days after the beginning of
   each following calendar year.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   7.2 State Party Implementation Options: Collecting Information for
   Declarations

   As each State Party develops its implementing measures, it should
   consider how it will acquire information concerning Scheduled chemicals
   and related facilities for declaration to the OPCW. If the chemicals or
   facilities are owned by the government, then internal arrangements must
   be made. If the chemicals or facilities are privately owned or
   operated, then the State Party may want to enact an appropriate measure
   to make reporting of the necessary information a legal requirement.

   7.2.1 Inter-Governmental Transfers of Information

   The CWC calls for some information that may concern government-owned
   chemicals and facilities. In many states, Schedule 1 chemicals and
   facilities are either government-owned or closely regulated; relevant
   information is already available;^(103) it must be gathered and
   organized for declarations. If a single government agency is
   responsible for these chemicals and facilities, that agency may be made
   responsible for assembling the declarations. If several agencies are
   involved, it may be more efficient to assign a single agency to collect
   relevant information from all agencies and develop declarations.^(104)
   These considerations may bear on how a State Party chooses to structure
   its National Authority, a subject that is discussed in Chapter 2.

   Some of the information that the CWC calls for may concern
   privately-owned facilities but nevertheless already be in the
   government's possession.^(105) In this regard, it may be appropriate to
   undertake a review of existing information acquisition mechanisms that
   are in place for other purposes (e.g., health and safety regulation,
   census data, import/export control). As with information concerning
   government-owned facilities, this information must be gathered and
   organized for declarations by a specifically authorized agency.

   7.2.2 Chemical Industry Reporting

   For many states, to obtain accurate and timely information for
   declarations, especially regarding Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals, it may
   be necessary to legally obligate private persons or entities to report
   to the government relevant information that they possess. Consequently,
   States Parties should enact implementing measures to compel private
   chemical enterprises to maintain and report appropriate records.

   7.2.2.1 Options to Require Reporting

   Implementing measures to require private firms to report CWC-relevant
   information should address the following issues:

   1. Identification of information-collection agency: A variety of issues
   concern which agency of the State Party (e.g., the National Authority
   or the Ministry of Commerce or Industry) is appropriate to collect
   relevant information.^(106) Although the National Authority may have
   responsibility for delivering declarations to the OPCW, it may have
   comparatively little experience in working with private industry. These
   issues may pertain to matters regarding the National Authority, which
   are discussed fully in Chapter 2.

   2. Record-keeping uniformity: The obligation to prepare reports
   suggests an obligation to maintain relevant information in a uniform
   format.^(107) Each facility's information must be aggregated with the
   information from every other facility so that national declarations can
   be prepared; uniform formats greatly simplify that process. If such
   requirements do not already exist, consideration should be given to
   developing such formats either in cooperation with affected persons or
   on their behalf.

   3. Comprehensiveness: The reporting requirements should be
   comprehensive, applicable to all those who produce, process, consume,
   export, or import any Scheduled chemical or related facility under the
   CWC, those who propose to do so, and those who discover or come into
   possession of declarable chemicals or facilities that have not been
   declared. Consideration should be given to how all relevant facilities
   can be made to report.

   4. Coordination with other regulatory obligations: It may be desirable
   to try to coordinate the information required for the CWC with
   information required to be reported for other regulatory purposes so
   that duplication with those other reporting requirements is minimized.
   Consideration should be given to how to take most efficient advantage
   of reporting mechanisms already in place.

   5. Timeliness: It is important to require that information be reported
   to the government sufficiently in advance of the CWC deadlines so that
   the

   responsible agency will have time to use that information to prepare
   the required declarations in compliance with the CWC's deadlines.^(108)

   6. Protection of Confidentiality: Special attention should be given to
   the risk that, by requiring the declaration of detailed information
   from the chemical industry, there will be a loss of confidential
   business information. This risk, and the possible steps that may be
   undertaken to secure such information, are discussed fully in Chapter
   11.

   Each State Party has a variety of options in responding to these
   issues, depending on its government organization and the size of its
   chemical industry. The simplest option, and the one that most States
   Parties choose, is to authorize an agency to collect necessary
   information by whatever means it deems appropriate.^(109) Other States
   Parties' implementing measures, in addition to delegating authority to
   an agency, incorporate the CWC's definitions and requirements into
   detailed specifications contained within statutory obligations.^(110)
   Whether implementing measures offer a blanket delegation of regulatory
   power or specify what such authority is to cover with more precision,
   such measures serve only to identify who is responsible for collecting
   information without clarifying issues as to how information will be
   collected.

   A few States Parties have adopted more sophisticated mechanisms based
   on a permitting system. Pursuant to these measures, any facility having
   Scheduled chemicals must obtain a permit to operate; as a condition
   thereof, the operator must maintain required records and give them to
   the appropriate government agency on a specified timetable.^(111) A
   permitting system may be bureaucratically complex and even onerous, but
   it offers advantages for identifying facilities that must report as
   well as helping to ensure record-keeping uniformity, coordination with
   other regulatory obligations, and timeliness.

   7.2.2.2 Options to Penalize Non-Compliance with Reporting Requirements

   A most important question for the implementing measures to address in
   the context of declarations is whether to penalize a failure to report
   information in an accurate and timely manner. Without a penalty
   provision, reporting obligations are merely hortatory, and compliance
   will likely be insufficient. If such a provision is implemented, then a
   State Party may have greater assurance that its nationals will comply,
   but only if the government is willing to devote the necessary law
   enforcement resources.

   Implementing measures to penalize private firms for failing to report
   CWC-relevant information should address the following issues:

   1. Intent: Consideration should be given to issues concerning the level
   of intent necessary to constitute a violation (e.g., whether negligent
   infractions should be punished, or only intentional violations). Some
   States Parties penalize only intentional or reckless non-submission,
   without reasonable excuse.^(112)
   Some States Parties extend penalties to negligent non-submission.^(113)
   Some States Parties enumerate different penalties depending on the
   deliberateness of the non-submission.^(114)

   2. Extent of penalties: Consideration should be given to questions
   concerning whether non-submission should be penalized by fines, permit
   denial, imprisonment, or some other reprimand.^(115) Also,
   consideration should be given to whether a penalty should be inflicted
   only on an offending commercial entity or whether individuals employed
   by that offending entity may be personally liable. These questions may
   pertain to issues raised in regard to the CWC's penal provisions which
   are discussed in Chapter 5.

   Conclusions

   Declarations must be made to the OPCW regarding chemical activities.
   Each State Party must make initial declarations. For a State declaring
   no chemical weapons or chemical weapons production facilities, and
   which have no chemical industry, these may be the only declarations it
   must ever make. States Parties with any chemicals listed on the three
   Schedules in the Annex on Chemicals, or related facilities, must make
   annual declarations. A key to each State Party's compliance will be how
   it acquires the information it must declare to the OPCW. States Parties
   may want to legally require accurate and timely reporting of such
   information to a government agency for declaration as necessary to the
   OPCW. Special attention should be given to whether and how to punish
   those who fail to report the specified information as required.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table Of Contents

   Chapter 1 -- Giving the CWC Force and Effect
   Chapter 2 -- The National Authority
   Chapter 3 -- Destruction of Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
   Chapter 4 -- Restrictions on Chemicals
   Chapter 5 -- Penal Legislation
   Chapter 6 -- Legal Assistance and Cooperation
   Chapter 7 -- Declarations
   Chapter 8 -- Routine Inspections I -- Selection of Sites and
   Arrangements for Inspectors
   Chapter 9 -- Routine Inspections II -- Access to Facilities and Conduct
   of Inspections
   Chapter 10 -- Challenge Inspections
   Chapter 11 -- Confidential Information
   Chapter 12 -- Remedies
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation
