http://spb1.spb.ca.gov/welcomerd.cfm

         Working Logo Employment for the 21st Century GO TO SPB Home

     Welcome | FastFind | Search | Calendar | SPB Home | Jobs | Services

                         Welcome to the SPB Website



Executive Officer, SPB As Executive Officer of the State Personnel Board, I
welcome you to our web site. Please take the time to explore the wide range
of public service employment opportunities available to you.

   Working for the State encompasses everything from building and
   improving our streets and highways to preventing child abuse and
   protecting public health. Information systems analysts, fire fighters,
   teachers, maintenance workers, engineers, office assistants, and many
   others provide services to our communities that contribute to
   individuals and families and improve our quality of life.

   As an employer, the State is committed to the principle of diversity.
   In that spirit, we welcome applications from all individuals. I
   sincerely hope you will find an opportunity that suits your interests
   and education, and that you will discover the rewards of a career in
   public service.

   Sincerely,

   Walter Vaughn, Executive Officer
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - -

     MEET THE SPB BOARD MEMBERS

     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
     - - - - - - -

     Strategic Plan in Adobe Acrobat for easy printing.

     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
     - - - - - - -


     [spblogo731.gif]

                      SPB Strategic Plan

     Serving the people of the State of California by
     Preserving merit within an innovative personnel system and
     Building a talented, dedicated, responsive, and diverse workforce in
     the 21st century.

Our Mission Is:

               To implement and guide the civil service system
                                     and
      ensure that employment is based on merit and free from patronage.

                                    Goals

     1. Customer Satisfaction: Goal

     The State Personnel Board (Board) will be responsive to and
     collaborative with the needs of its stakeholders.

     Strategies:
     * We will continuously ask our stakeholders what they need today and
       in the future and we will strive to be responsive within the merit
       principles^1.
     * The Board will renew its emphasis on consultative and educational
       programs as well as control and oversight and guide stakeholders in
       the practice of excellent human resources management.
     * We will develop collaborative partnerships with our stakeholders to
       assist in developing and providing excellent innovative human
       resources services, understanding of the merit principles, and
       appropriate standards promoted by the Board.
     * The Board will proactively build relationships with our
       stakeholders, promote our services, and utilize our neutral and
       independent role to bring parties together to resolve differences.

     Objectives


 A.

   The Board executives will meet quarterly with top executives in the
   departments, labor and advocate organizations, legislative leaders, academic
   leaders, and leaders of professional organizations to obtain input on major
   programs and trends, explore and develop partnerships, and establish positive
   relationships beginning April 2001. (Division Chiefs and Executive Staff)


 B.

   The Board staff will establish an appeals and policy advisory group
   (consisting of key stakeholders and customers) that will meet regularly to
   provide input and advise on the operation of major programs, provide input on
   major recommendations and proposals, and input on customer needs. The initial
   meetings will occur by September 1, 2001. We will also continue our ongoing
   participation in meetings with management, advocate, and union organizations.
   (Policy Division/Appeals Division/Legal Office)


 C.

   The Board staff will install systems for continuously measuring the quality,
   accuracy, timeliness, cost, and customer satisfaction level of major services
   provided by the Board. The first survey results will be reported to the Board
   by February 2002. (Division Chiefs)


 D.

   Within 60 days receipt of survey results, Board staff will analyze and
   develop a plan to address any critical stakeholder and customer needs, or
   dissatisfaction with services. The plan will consider staff capacity, fiscal
   resources, urgency of the need, statutory and constitutional requirements,
   and the organization's strategic plan. (Division Chiefs)


 E.

   By July 2002, Board staff will issue guidelines and manual sections to
   departments on the following topics: (Policy Division)

      1. Merit Principles
      2. Application Review
      3. Exam Security and Records Retention
      4. Bulletin Preparation
      5. List Transfer
      6. Education and Experience

 F.

   By December 2002, the Board staff will assess the effectiveness and develop
   recommendations and/or rules for public hearing by the Board on the following
   topics:



1.

Discrimination Complaint System (Personnel Resources and Innovations Division
(PRID))



2.

Bilingual Services (PRID)



3.

State Selection System (including the decentralized selection system) (Policy
Division)



4.

Appeal Procedures (Legal Office/Appeals Division)



5.

Career Executive Assignments (Policy Division)



6.

Outreach and Recruitment/Workforce Planning (PRID/Policy Division)



7.

Disproportionate Adverse Actions (PRID)



8.

Diversity Programs (pending a Prop. 209 court decision) (PRID)

     2. Excellent Recruitment, Selection, and Retention

     The Board practices will help ensure that the state attracts,
     selects, and retains a high- quality and diverse workforce.

     Strategies:
     * We will promote and market the state as an employer of choice
       including the benefits and incentives for working in state
       government.
     * We provide leadership to eliminate inappropriate barriers and
       negative constraints in competing for the best and brightest talent
       available.
     * We will promote interest in occupations where the state is
       experiencing worker shortages.
     * We will promote the training and development of existing employees
       who demonstrate interest and talent in those occupations.
     * We will ensure that state employment information is available and
       marketed to all major segments of the state's labor force and that
       potential job applicants have an opportunity to consider and fully
       explore the potential of state employment.
     * We actively partner with schools, colleges, and community
       organizations to expand the pool of qualified workers available for
       state employment.
     * We recruit from diverse and broad sources to attract applicants
       reflective of the state.
     * We will increase the speed, validity, and accuracy of recruitment
       and testing functions to compete with the private sector for top
       candidates.

     Objectives

  A.

    By June 2001, Board staff will pilot, in the clerical occupational area, a
    computer-based Human Resource Manager applicant assessment tool designed to
    assist state agencies to identify and quickly select a high-quality and
    diverse workforce. (PRID)


  B.

    By August 2001, Board staff will develop and distribute a video to
    departments that may be used with schools and community groups to market
    employment in state government. (Legislative Office)


  C.

    By August 2001, Board staff, in conjunction with the Department of
    Information Technology's staff, will develop and implement a plan to rapidly
    and aggressively recruit and select information technology employees. (PRID)


  D.

    We will audit decentralized personnel programs in the 30 largest agencies on
    a 4-year cycle and smaller agencies on a 5-year cycle, and also conduct
    special reviews when warranted. (Policy Division)


  E.

    By June 2002, Board staff, in conjunction with departments, will analyze and
    identify the state's future critical workforce shortages and develop a plan
    to address those shortages. (PRID/Policy Division)


  F.

    By July 2002, Board staff will develop and present a proposal to the Board
    designed to speed up the transition of students and retain highly-skilled
    talent among those eligible for retirement or to regain critically needed
    skills of recent retirees. (PRID/Policy Division)

     3. Fair, Impartial, Timely Dispute Resolution:

     The Board will provide fair and impartial systems that are
     efficient, cost-effective and consistent with due process, for
     investigating, adjudicating, mediating, and otherwise resolving
     merit appeals.

     Strategies:
     * We will ensure that discipline is imposed for cause, taken in a
       timely manner, and that the disciplinary process is fair and
       consistent with due process.
     * We will ensure that the disciplinary appeals process provides, as
       required by the California Constitution, Board review of
       disciplinary actions that is fair to all parties, expeditious, and
       consistent with due process.
     * The Board will encourage managers to utilize a broad array of
       options for improving employee performance and handling workplace
       conflicts including formal education, training, counseling,
       performance incentives, mediation, and discipline.
     * The Board will promote departmental establishment and communication
       of performance expectations to employees and the education of
       managers on the disciplinary process and options for dealing with
       substandard performance and conflict in the workplace.
     * We will promote mediation as one means for resolving and/or
       managing workplace disputes.
     * We will develop, install, and market new processes and systems that
       are consistent with due process, tailored to the nature of the
       appeal, and designed to meet the needs of the customers and
       stakeholders.

     Objectives

 A.

   By July 1, 2001, we will promote mediation by offering it to parties in
   reasonable accommodation and discrimination complaint appeals, giving them
   the opportunity to resolve their appeals through mediation. In January 2002,
   we will evaluate the extent of the use of mediation in this area and what
   needs to be done for full integration. (Legal Office/Appeals Division)


 B.

   By September 2001, staff will develop and offer to the parties, on a pilot
   basis, an expedited appeals process that allows parties to request expedited
   one-day hearings resulting in case closure within 30-60 days. (Legal
   Office/Appeals Division)


 C.

   By September 2001, staff will develop and offer to the parties, on a pilot
   basis, the opportunity to request full day or consecutive multiple-day
   hearings on initial sets, in lieu of the current one-half day settings used
   for most cases. (Legal Office/Appeals Division)


 D.

   By January 2002, we will develop and implement a "medical mediation model"
   that will allow for the use of experts to assist employees and departments in
   finding resolution for employees who can no longer perform their jobs due to
   medical/disability issues. (Legal Office/Appeals Division)


 E.

   By February 2002, we will develop and make available to departments,
   educational materials for distribution to all managers and supervisors
   dealing with: importance of performance expectations for a good and
   productive working relationship; training for competence and upward mobility;
   the disciplinary process; and options that can be considered for dealing with
   substandard performance and conflict in the workplace. (Legal Office/Appeals
   Division)


 F.

   By July 2002, we will fully integrate mediation into the reasonable
   accommodation and discrimination appeal processes. (Legal Office/Appeals
   Division)

     4. Improved Internal Capacity

     The Board will continuously implement changes that will increase our
     effectiveness and increase our internal capacity to deliver our
     services.

     Strategies:

     * We will examine our internal structure and organization, including
       our technology and ensure effective and responsive delivery of
       services.
     * We will promote an organizational culture where employees are
       motivated, enabled, highly skilled, proactive, and customer
       focused.
     * We will promote an organization that is principled, values driven,
       supports open communication, continuous learning and improvement,
       and encourages employees to achieve their highest potential.

     Objectives

 A.

   Within 30 days of approval of the strategic plan, the Board will conduct an
   all- staff meeting to share and explain the plan, values, objectives, and
   direction of the organization with staff. Staff will also communicate the
   final plan with the Board's stakeholders and customers. (Executive Officer)


 B.

   On a semiannual basis, beginning July 2001, the Board staff will conduct
   all-staff meetings or publish an internal newsletter to all staff informing
   them of major activities and policy decisions. (Administrative Services
   Division)


 C.

   By July 2001, each division will develop and implement a plan approved by the
   executive office for improving cross-divisional communication (the plan will
   consider at least the following: cross-functional teams and task forces,
   participation in external divisional staff meetings, and mandatory
   organizational input on divisional proposals). (Division Chiefs)


 D.

   By December 2001, Board staff will identify critical organizational training
   needs and provide training to appropriate departmental staff in areas such as
   improving customer services, process improvement, and facilitation.
   (Administrative Services Division)


 E.

   By July 2002, the Board will complete an organizational workforce planning
   process that identifies organizational competencies, assesses current and
   available staff competencies, staff tenure and potential, and identifies
   recommendations (including training staff, hiring experts, rotational
   assignments, and reassigning staff and functions) to address any resource
   gaps. (Administrative Services Division)


 F.

   By July 2002, the Board will hire a consultant to assist with the evaluation
   of the organization's structure and realignment of the organization to our
   strategic plan. (Executive Officer/Administrative Services Division)


APPENDIX A

MERIT PRINCIPLES

     * Notice of competitive selection processes shall be public and
       reasonably distributed to assure adequate and equitable notice to
       potential applicants from the applicable labor market/recruitment
       area.
     * Permanent appointment and promotions shall be based on successful
       participation in a job-related, competitive selection process,
       where eligibility and priority for appointment and promotion is
       reserved for those participants attaining the highest ranks.
       Selection processes shall be based on the knowledge, skills, and
       abilities needed for successful performance and shall be designed
       to maximize validity, reliability, and objectivity.
     * Temporary appointments shall be limited to nine months. Permanent
       status shall be attained following the completion of a specified
       time limited probationary period.
     * Permanent employees disciplined or terminated for cause shall be
       afforded due process including notice of the reasons for
       termination, an opportunity to respond to the appointing authority,
       and a hearing and review by the State Personnel Board.
     * The civil service shall include all state employees except those
       specifically exempted by the constitution. State work shall be
       performed by state employees except where the work can be performed
       more cost effectively by the private sector or where state
       employees cannot adequately perform the work.
     * Civil service positions shall be classified based on the similarity
       of the duties and responsibilities and requirements. Employment
       requirements shall be job related and essential for successful
       performance of the duties.
     * Equal employment opportunities shall exist in all aspects of the
       civil service system. Illegal discrimination shall be prevented.
       Employment decisions shall be based on job-related factors.
       Employment decisions shall not be based on the political
       affiliation or opinions of applicants or employees. Effective
       procedures shall provide for the investigation and resolution of
       allegations of violations of the civil service laws and applicable
       federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable court
       decisions. The State Personnel Board shall enforce the civil
       service laws.

                                    Back
          ________________________________________________________

   SPB Home | JOBS | Services | California Home Page | Governor's Home
   Page | DPA | EDD
       How to Contact Us
       California State Personnel Board, All Rights Reserved
