http://ahs.volpe.dot.gov/aboutahs/aboutahs.html

                                 AHS PROGRAM

  GOALS

   The AHS program is a broad national effort that is to provide the basis
   for, and transition to, the next major performance upgrade of the US
   vehicle/highway system through the use of automated vehicle control
   technology, which is further described below. The long range goal is to
   significantly improve the safety and efficiency of the nation's surface
   transportation system through a national effort that best ensures the
   early, successful deployment of automated highway systems.

  BACKGROUND OF THE AHS PROGRAM

   The highway transportation system is at a critical crossroads in its
   evolution and has started to plateau in its ability to provide
   significant new operating performance in its present form. This is
   occurring at the same time that it is under increasing stress from
   growing traffic demand and unresolved safety and air quality issues.
   The AHS program is premised on the view that the fully automated
   control of vehicles operating on dedicated lanes in high priority
   traffic corridors holds realistic promise of being the next means of
   substantially improving the performance of the highway system. Indeed,
   society's long term ability to deal with current safety and mobility
   operational problems and achieve significant breakthroughs in future
   performance of the vehicle/highway system may well be fundamentally
   dependent on the application of automated vehicle control technology.
   For example, AHS offers the potential for substantial improvements in
   throughput (both peak and average), safety, trip predictability, level
   of service, inclement weather operation, mobility and air quality.

   This "high performance" highway system, seen as the next major
   evolutionary stage of surface transportation, is expected to be the
   focus of major US implementation efforts early in the 21st century,
   much the same as the recently completed Interstate program was in the
   last half of this century. Evolution from manual to full automated
   control may transition through stages of control assistance, partial
   control and eventual full control. The potential performance gains from
   full automated control a re the primary goal of this program.

   Automated vehicle control refers to a set of lateral (steering),
   longitudinal (speed and headway), and overall system control elements
   which will be combined into what has become known as an Automated
   Highway System (AHS). AHS will provide for the operation of vehicles,
   equipped with the necessary control and communication subsystems, to be
   operated under fully automated control -- similar to an auto-pilot in
   aircraft. The vehicle's guideway will be similar in broad form to
   today's freeways, and will repre sent the next major design level of
   highways beyond the Interstate Highway System. Initial deployment and
   operation of this high performance AHS is expected to focus on high
   priority routes located in high demand, major urban and inter-city
   freeway corridors.

   Recognizing the potential of AHS, Congress included a provision on AHS
   in the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of
   1991. Part B, Section 6054 (b) of that act directs that "The Secretary
   (of Transportation) shall develop an automated highway and vehicle
   prototype from which future fully automated intelligent vehicle-highway
   systems can be developed. Such development shall include research in
   human factors to ensure the success of the man-machine relationship.
   The goal of this program is to have the first fully automated roadway
   or an automated test track in operation by 1997. This system shall
   accommodate installation of equipment in new and existing motor
   vehicles".

   To undertake and manage the AHS program, the DOT has established an AHS
   program within FHWA under the policy guidance of the DOT Intelligent
   Systems and Technology Division Program Office. The program is closely
   coordinated with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
   (NHTSA), especially their program to development performance guidelines
   for collision avoidance systems that may serve as the building blocks
   for major AHS subsystems/components. The Automated Highway System
   Program Manager and monitor of the PSA contracts is the FHWA
   Intelligent Systems and Technology Division.

   The AHS development program is broadly structured in three phases:

   Analysis Phase (1992-1994): The Analysis Phase is underway and will
       provide the analytical foundation for efforts to be conducted in
       the Systems Definition Phase. In addition to the multiple Precursor
       System Analyses discussed here, it includes and AHS Human Factors
       study that will develop an AHS human factors handbook and
       NHTSA-sponsored collision avoidance analyses that will investigate
       avoidance-oriented vehicle warning and control services that may
       someday evolve into AHS.
       Systems Definition Phase (1994-2002): The systems Definition Phase
       of the program is a multi-year effort that will: (1) establish AHS
       performance and design objectives; (2) identify and evaluate
       alternative AHS system concepts; (3) in 1997, demonstrate the
       proof-of-technical feasibility of fully automated AHS concept
       alternatives, system or subsystem designs, and key AHS technologies
       and functions, in a controlled test track environment; (4)
       select--based on broad scoped analysis, test and evaluatio n--a
       preferred system approach; (5) demonstrate, test and evaluate a
       prototype configuration of the preferred system approach; and (6)
       prepare system and supporting documentation of the preferred AHS
       system configuration. This phase is to be conducted by The National
       Automated Highway Systems Consortium. The NAHSC consists of
       stakeholders who in partnership with the US DOT is conducting this
       phase of the AHS program.
       Operational Evaluation Phase (2002-2006 - projected): During the
       Operational Evaluation Phase, one or more implementations of the
       preferred system will be operationally evaluated at selected US
       locations.
     __________________________________________________________________

                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

   THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
   AUTOMATED HIGHWAY SYSTEM PROGRAM
   REPORT TO CONGRESS BACKGROUND

   This executive summary synopsizes the status report on the U.S.
   Department of Transportations (U.S. DOT) Automated Highway System (AHS)
   program in response to Congress request for the same by April 1, 1995.

   Recent research on automated highways has clearly indicated that
   automated vehicle control technology significantly improves the safety
   and efficiency of existing highways. With this in mind, Congress
   included Section 6054(b) in the Intermodal Surface Transportation
   Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 to enhance and focus the Nation's
   research into automated highways:

   The Secretary [of Transportation] shall develop an automated highway
   and vehicle prototype from which future fully automated intelligent
   vehicle-highway systems can be developed. Such development shall
   include research in human factors to ensure the success of the
   man-machine relationship. The goal of this program is to have the first
   fully automated roadway or an automated test track in operation by
   1997. This system shall accommodate installation of equipment in new
   and existing motor vehicles.

   The AHS program responds to that Congressional guidance. The program
   involves collaborations of government, industry, and academic partners
   that explore all areas associated with bringing automated vehicle
   control technology to the U.S. highway system. Its mission is to
   greatly improve the mobility, safety, and quality of highway travel.
   Increased efficiency should also help to conserve energy resources and
   to be compatible with urban air quality goals. In many cases, these
   improvements will be made using existing highway infrastructure.

   The AHS Program will provide the stepping stone into automated
   vehicle-highway transportation in the 21st century.

   The program focuses on a planned evolution to AHS from todays
   vehicle-highway system. This transition will be simplified because some
   of the basic automated vehicle controls needed for an AHS are starting
   to appear in todays vehicles; use of this technology is expected to
   increase over the next decade. Drivers will be offered Intelligent
   Transportation System (ITS) services such as adaptive cruise control, a
   cruise control system that helps a vehicle maintain a safe following
   distance from the vehicle in front of it; collision warning and
   avoidance to help prevent both rear-end and side-swipe crashes; and,
   lane keeping, which will hold a vehicle safely in its lane. Similarly,
   ITS technologies such as infrastructure-to-vehicle communications for
   Traveler Information Services and Advanced Traffic Management Systems
   will be deployed in the coming years. The AHS program will build upon
   and integrate with the evolution of these ITS services to ensure
   overall compatibility. To this end, current AHS activities are fully
   coordinated with the ongoing development of a National ITS
   Architecture. With nationwide planning and infrastructure integration,
   AHS will become the next logical major evolutionary step in our highway
   transportation system.

   Substantial issues are associated with the role of vehicle-highway
   automation on sustainable transportation and society in general. These
   issues must be addressed along with the technology issues of
   performance, reliability, and affordability. Research focused in these
   areas is a key part of the AHS program, combined with extensive
   stakeholder involvement. The program seeks a national consensus of the
   AHS stakeholders on both the system approach and deployment strategy
   based on results of this research.

   The envisioned AHS would operate properly equipped vehicles under full
   automated control on instrumented lanes. All vehicles in the AHS lane
   would maintain a safe operating distance from the vehicle in front of
   it and stay in their lane of travel. With all vehicles in the lane
   automated, the opportunity for human mistakes and inefficiencies would
   be significantly reduced. The current assumption is that many AHS lanes
   will be adjacent to, and similar to, the other freeway lanes, and
   entering AHS lanes may be similar to entering some of todays High
   Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes or toll facilities.

   Automation is essential for our Nations surface transportation system
   in the 21st century.

   Our vehicle-highway system is expected to continue as our Nations
   primary mode of transportation for the foreseeable future. Americans
   also desire green mobility, that is, more efficient transportation with
   proper care for the environment and land use.

   Our Nations vehicle-highway system presently carries 89 percent of all
   passenger miles of travel and 32 percent of the Nations ton-miles of
   freight revenue. It is a primary and essential link to our Nations
   economy; the infrastructure in place and transportations role in
   society is expected to continue.

   It is increasingly difficult for our vehicle-highway system to meet the
   growing travel demands.

   The reality is that the Nations highway transportation system is
   rapidly reaching the limit of its ability to handle additional demand
   and serve the publics and commerces increasing transportation needs.
   The growing daily congestion of our Nations highways reflects this
   problem, and the demand for travel on our highways is projected to
   magnify in the future.

   Automation is one of the most promising approaches for improving
   vehicle-highway system performance.

   The ITS program is investing substantial resources to improve the
   performance of our current transport systems. ITS is focused on such
   areas as improving information flow among vehicles, travelers, and the
   infrastructure; enhancing safety and security; and dismantling
   institutional barriers. Over the next decade or so, deployment of the
   ITS services within a coherent national architecture will result in
   traffic safety gains and transportation efficiency. Vehicle-highway
   automation is the natural evolution of these technology investments,
   integrating crash avoidance enhancements on vehicles and communication
   capabilities in our highway systems. AHS holds the promise of expanding
   collision avoidance safety benefits and providing a major performance
   gain in flow capacity for a given right-of-way compared to todays
   systems based on manually driven vehicles.

   In fact, AHS is capable of providing a level of performance and service
   that is a generation beyond other ITS services. An AHS can double or
   triple the efficiency of todays most congested highway lanes while
   significantly increasing safety and trip quality. An AHS would serve
   all highway users, opening up new opportunities for transit bus
   operation, enhancing the safety and productivity of heavy trucks, and
   offering improved convenience and dependability to the traveling
   public. Its efficiency would help reduce both fuel consumption and
   individual vehicle emissions and ensure maximum use of our existing
   highway infrastructure investment.

   The AHS also provides near-term spin-off safety and efficiency
   improvements.

   The AHS program is addressing automated vehicle control technology.
   This technology is increasingly being used in other ITS services to
   help save lives, reduce crashes, and enhance trip quality. Research and
   development for the AHS program is enabling the earlier introduction of
   these near-term crash avoidance safety products. Further, the AHS
   program is providing a framework so that near-term use of automated
   vehicle control technology in ITS services will be consistent with
   their potential transition to AHS.

   A long-term strategic program and partnership is necessary to
   accomplish highway automation.

   U.S. DOT plays an essential role in exploring highway automation and in
   supporting long-term, high-risk R&D that industry and the States cannot
   undertake alone. The AHS program is the most comprehensive long-range
   R&D effort within the U.S. DOT focused upon an efficient and safe
   highway system to carry us through the 21st century. A strategic
   program for automated vehicle control R&D has been defined, and U.S.
   DOT has formed a public/private partnership to research and define the
   AHS approach.

   The U.S. DOT partnership is with the National AHS Consortium (NAHSC), a
   team of the Nations major vehicle/highway system stakeholders industry,
   State and local governments, user representatives who will eventually
   build, own, operate, and use AHS. If AHS is to be successfully
   developed and implemented as a large-scale effort, this partnership
   must continue. Neither the public nor the private sector alone can
   implement AHS or provide all the needed expertise. The vehicle
   manufacturers must cooperate with the highway builders and operators to
   develop vehicle and highway instrumentation and equipment that
   complement each other and gain the full benefits of automation.

   The U.S. DOT will continue to facilitate the partnership on a cost
   share basis with non-Federal partners and represent the Nations
   transportation and societal needs in the NAHSC.

   Automated highways would enhance our Nations international
   competitiveness in the next century.

   The U.S. program in highway automation is by far the most focused and
   comprehensive internationally. This program puts our industry and
   Nation in a global leadership position. Deploying AHS as part of a
   robust surface transportation system should increase transportation
   productivity and strengthen our Nations ability to compete effectively
   in a global economy. It would provide rapidly expanding new markets for
   the U.S. automobile, vehicle electronics, and highway construction
   industries. The markets would grow first by introducing more near-term
   ITS products and services and then continue to increase with full
   highway automation. The 20 percent cost sharing commitment by
   non-Federal consortium partners shows the promise of these new markets.

   Results have already shown that AHS holds great promise for addressing
   most of our Nation's highway transportation needs early in the
   nextcentury.

   The Analysis Phase of this Program has been underway for more than 2
   years. Part of this Phase included the precursor Systems Analyses
   (PSAs) studies that involved in-depth research by 15 industry teams
   during 1993-1994. The findings show that the promise of AHS is real,
   although clearly many substantive issues and challenges lie ahead. The
   unanimous opinion of this research community is that no show stoppers
   were found. Many challenges were addressed, particularly in societal
   and institutional areas, which are now receiving further attention by
   the NAHSC, and will be key to national consensus discussions.

   KEY FINDINGS

     * Travel safety should increase significantly. Some estimates show up
       to 80 percent improvement. Findings are based on analysis of causal
       factors in crashes, and on automated reactions that would help
       avoid inadequate and inconsistent human responses that often result
       in crashes. However, more investigation is needed to determine how
       the human driver will interact with the automated system. Ongoing
       human factors studies are specifically targeted to understanding
       how drivers will interact with AHS technology.
     * Efficiency - AHS can double or triple the number of vehicles
       traveling on a highway lane and also eliminate driver merging,
       weaving, unsafe car following, and lane changing. By tailoring the
       AHS for transit vehicle, commercial trucks, and HOV operation, AHS
       can have a dramatic impact on movement of people and goods. AHS
       supports transit vehicle operations. The best means of integrating
       the volume of vehicles carried by AHS into a regional traffic
       network to increase transport efficiency is a challenge that was
       addressed extensively in the PSA work, and will be the focus of
       continued NAHSC investigations. For AHS to decrease overall
       congestion, it must be part of a regions integrated transportation
       plan that includes demand management in those urban areas where it
       may be needed.
     * User comfort and access - Focus group participants anticipated that
       highway travel on AHS would be far less stressful in an AHS
       environment than on current (non-AHS) highways. Some participants
       expressed concern that AHS may not be accessible to everyone.
     * Reliability of trip time - Travel times on AHS should be more
       dependable because of the consistent AHS traffic flow. Traffic
       volumes at AHS entry and exit points must be carefully addressed to
       avoid congestion. The researchers concluded that an AHS deployment
       must be integrated with a regions other transportation resources.
     * Air quality - AHS could reduce tailpipe emissions of individual
       vehicles during travel due to fewer rapid accelerations and reduced
       congestion. AHS can also fully support alternate fueled vehicles.
       However, the capacity and attractiveness of an AHS may encourage
       single occupancy vehicle (SOV) travel and potentially create more
       congestion. Researchers recommend making AHS deployment responsive
       to comprehensive land use planning. In dense urban areas, they
       recommend employing demand management policies to ensure reduced
       congestion and to discourage increased SOV traffic. They also
       recommend considering environmental impact when larger volumes of
       vehicles travel in a concentrated corridor.
     * Mobility - The AHS may attract drivers who avoid todays freeways
       (e.g., senior citizens and persons with disabilities). A national
       AHS network would enhance the Nations mobility for all users,
       including truckers. System aspects that require resolution include
       making a smooth transition to full vehicle control, defining a
       highly reliable and safe system that is affordable, and
       accommodating nationwide compatibility along with local/regional
       tailoring.
     * Acceptance - Introducing new approaches and technologies often
       creates tensions. AHS deployment will face the same challenges that
       other transportation improvement programs have encountered in the
       planning and approval process. In addition, an AHS deployment will
       face challenges unique to the integration of this new technology
       into the community.

   The NAHSC, a public/private partnership, will objectively choose the
   approach to highway automation that best meets the Nation's needs.

   AHS PROGRAM STRUCTURE

   The AHS program is planned around three broad phases as shown in figure
   1. The NAHSC is responsible for conducting the second phase, Systems
   Definition. This phase has been underway since late 1994. The talent
   and perspective of the many stakeholders are fundamental to the program
   approach in all phases.

                             Undisplayed Graphic

     * The Analysis Phase establishes an analytic program foundation. It
       consists of:
       - Precursor Systems Analyses by 15 contractor teams that addressed
       automated vehicle control requirements and issues in 16 topic areas
       - A human factors study effort to develop an AHS human factors
       design handbook
       - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) analyses
       to investigate other ITS automated vehicle control-based services
       that avoid collisions through warning and control. These services
       may be part of the planned evolution into the AHS.
     * The PSAs identified issues and risks associated with various AHS
       concepts and design areas. PSA researchers held a final conference
       in November 1994, and all contract teams have submitted final
       reports. The NAHSC is actively using these findings in their
       research.
       In addition to being publicly available through the National
       Technical Information Service (NTIS), all PSA research reports will
       soon be available on CD-ROM and accessible through a World Wide Web
       page (http://ahs.volpe.dot.gov/).
     * The Systems Definition Phase is underway. The NAHSC is working in
       partnership with the Federal Government. The consortium includes
       representatives from the vehicle industry, highway industry, State
       and local governments, regional and metropolitan transportation
       agencies, and electronics/communications industries associated with
       the vehicle and communications market.
       The milestones of the consortium program are as follows: (1)
       establishment of performance and design objectives, (2) a 1997
       proof-of-technical-feasibility demonstration, (3) identification
       and description of multiple feasible AHS system concepts, (4)
       selection of the preferred AHS system configuration, (5) completion
       of prototype testing, and (6) completion of system and supporting
       documentation including a planned evolution from other ITS
       services.
       The AHS prototype will demonstrate the potential of automation
       applied to vehicles and highways as a system, as well as the
       potential benefits of a deployed system. The NAHSC is focused on
       the joint goals of sustainable transportation and improved mobility
       through prudent and innovative use of technology.
       NAHSC activities are in full swing. A Stakeholder Participation
       program, as part of the broader outreach effort, has accepted more
       than 60 organizations as Associate Participants to date, with many
       more expected to join as the program progresses. Systems
       requirements development, concept definition and evaluation,
       planning for the 1997 demonstration, societal and institutional
       analyses, and exploration of the potential of automation for
       commercial freight movement and bus transit, are examples of the
       man y areas of intense activity.
     * The Operational Test and Evaluation Phase is currently not funded.
       It would logically follow a successful completion of the Systems
       Definition Phase and include (1) integrating the preferred AHS
       system configuration into the existing institutional,
       technological, regulatory, and highway environment; (2) evaluating
       this configuration in a number of operational settings; and (3)
       establishing guidelines by which the U.S. DOT will support AHS
       deployment.
       RECOMMENDATIONS
       Continue Congressional support for the AHS Program through Phase II
       until AHS feasibility is determined and the system for the Nation
       has been chosen.
       The ISTEA legislation mandated that the NAHSC complete the proof of
       technical feasibility demonstration by 1997. This demonstration has
       been framed in a full program of six major milestones over 7 years.
       For this reason, it is imperative that the support for the program
       go beyond the demonstration milestone.
       Therefore, continued Congressional support for AHS in subsequent
       authorizing legislation is necessary to maintain consistent
       investment by the non-Federal partners, and to determine the
       preferred feasible configuration for the Nation.
       Establish Congressional support for AHS Operational Test and
       Evaluation (Phase III)
       Phase III involves selection and prototype testing of the preferred
       AHS configuration. Upon completing the systems definition phase,
       the preferred configuration will next undergo operational test and
       evaluation. The support for this phase of the program is crucial to
       the successful deployment of AHS. Only through operational testing
       can the public understand, experience, and appreciate the promise
       of AHS. Much of the cost associated with the operational test and
       evaluation phase will be shared by private sources through
       public/private partnerships.
       FOR MORE INFORMATION
       The following sources are available:
       National Automated Highway System Consortium (NAHSC)
       3001 West Big Beaver Road, Suite 500
       Troy, MI 48084
       (810) 816-3400
       NAHSC World Wide Web site: http://nahsc.volpe.dot.gov/
       FHWA AHS World Wide Web site: http://ahs.volpe.dot.gov/
       FHWA AHS Program Manager:
       Mr. J. Richard Bishop, Jr.
       Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center
       6300 Georgetown Pike, T-202
       McLean, VA 22010-2296
       (703) 285-2680
         ______________________________________________________________

      Home Feedback About AHS Precursor System Analyses AHS Consortium
                    What's New AVCS Related Sites Human Factors
