http://txwww.cr.usgs.gov/data/other_hydro.html



   Non-USGS Sources of Hydrologic Data

   International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC)
          The IBWC is a joint United States/Mexican authority responsible
          for the management and oversight of the Rio Grande River Basin.
          The IBWC provides access to PROVISIONAL flow data on the Rio
          Grande River, updated on a regular basis on its website at:

        http://www.ibwc.state.gov/wad/flowdata.htm

   Lower Colorado River Authority (LCRA)
          The LCRA is a conservation and reclamation district that has six
          dams on the lower Colorado River. They help in flood control and
          serve as a water supply for municipal, industrial, agricultural
          and recreational users throughout a 10-county area. This area
          includes Blanco, Burnet, Llano, Travis, Bastrop, Fayette,
          Colorado, Wharton, San Saba and Matagorda counties.

          The LCRA posts a discussion of current conditions in its Daily
          River Report at:

        http://www.lcra.org/water/riverrep.html

          and provides access to PROVISIONAL flow and lake stage data in
          basin at:

        http://www.lcra.org/water/riverdat.html

          In addition to the flow and lake data, the LCRA also provides a
          weather discussion/forecast page at:

        http://www.lcra.org/water/lcrasaf.html

   National Weather Service (NWS)
          The mission of the NWS is "To provide weather and flood
          warnings, public forecasts and advisories for all of the United
          States, its territories, adjacent waters and ocean areas,
          primarily for the protection of life and property."

          The NWS provides internet access to selected hydrologic data
          collected by the USGS and other agencies in Texas via the
          Interactive Weather Information Network (IWIN). Some stations
          are not available from the USGS Current Conditions pages,
          including stage data along the Rio Grande and a few other good
          boating rivers, and reservoir elevations and release data.

     General River and Reservoir Summary Reports may be found at:

     http://iwin.nws.noaa.gov/iwin/tx/hydro.html

   US Army Corps of Engineers -- Fort Worth District
          The Fort Worth District posts reservoir stage, contents, and
          discharge at Corps of Engineers and other lakes in the Fort
          Worth District via a searchable interface at:

        http://www.swf-wc.usace.army.mil/reports2.htm



   US Army Corps of Engineers -- Tulsa District
          The Tulsa District Water Control Data System posts reservoir
          conditions, stream gage information, and weather images.

        http://www.swt-wc.usace.army.mil/stations.htm

   Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission (TNRCC)
          Rio Grande Border Issues



   Texas Water Development Board
          Bays and Estuaries

   Texas Coastal Ocean Observation Network (TCOON)

   Edwards Aquifer Research and Data Center



   Texas Water Resources Institute, Texas Waternet



          The Texas Water Resources Institute (TWRI) responds to numerous
          inquiries from people all over Texas and elsewhere who want to
          know about the latest developments in water and environmental
          research.

          TWRI provides searchable on-line information about current
          research and water researchers at Texas universities. Their
          database 'Researchers with Water-Related Expertise at Texas
          Universities' identifies individuals that are actively
          researching specific topics and will provide a way for people to
          contact them.

          In addition to the researcher database, the full text of many
          articles that TWRI publishes are also on line. These articles,
          which describe research individual scientists have conducted,
          were previously published in TWRIs four quarterly newsletters
          [Texas Water Resources, New Waves, Texas Water Savers, and Texas
          On-Site Insights].
