http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/sbregistr.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   U.S. Savings Bonds FAQ Area
   line divider

                      FAQs - Savings Bond Registration

   This is a series of Frequently Asked Questions about registering
   savings bonds.
   1) GENERAL QUESTIONS

   1.1) What is savings bond registration?
       1.2) Why do savings bonds have to be registered?
       1.3) What does "registration is conclusive of ownership" mean?
       1.4) What information is required to register a savings bond?
       1.5) Why do you need a Social Security Number to register a savings
       bond?
       1.6) Who can own savings bonds?
       1.7) Can a minor own a savings bond?
       1.8) What are the rules for registering savings bonds in the name
       of someone who isn't capable of managing his or her own affairs?

2) FORMS OF REGISTRATION

   2.1) What are the different ways to register savings bonds?
       2.2) Are there different rules for registering I Bonds and Series
       EE Savings Bonds?
       2.3) Is a co-owner or beneficiary required?
       2.4) I understand that only two names can appear on a savings bond.
       Why?
       2.5) Can there be both a co-owner and a beneficiary on the same
       savings bond?
       2.6) What's the difference between registration and delivery
       information on the savings bond order form?
       2.7) How do I register a savings bond that's to be delivered
       outside the United States?

3) SOME PRACTICAL EFFECTS OF THE DIFFERENT FORMS OF REGISTRATION

   3.1) How do the different forms of savings bond registration affect
       ownership?
       3.2) If I'm the sole owner, what happens to my savings bonds if I
       die before cashing them? What if there's a co-owner? What if
       there's a beneficiary?
       3.3) What's the difference between being a co-owner and a
       beneficiary?

4) GIFT SAVINGS BONDS

   4.1) How do I register a savings bond that I'm buying as a gift?
       4.2) Can I show on a gift savings bond that it's a gift from me?
       4.3) How can I find out who bought a gift savings bond for my child
       or me?
       4.4) If a family member or I receive a savings bond as a gift with
       the giver's Social Security Number on it, what should we do?

5) THE EDUCATION SAVINGS BOND PROGRAM

   5.1) How do I register savings bonds to take advantage of the Education
       Savings Bond Program?
       5.2) Is there another way I can register savings bonds to pay for
       my dependent's education?
       5.3) Where can I get more information on the Education Savings Bond
       Program?

6) CHANGING THE REGISTRATION INFORMATION ON SAVINGS BONDS

   6.1) Can I change the registration of savings bonds after I buy them?
       If so, how?
       6.2) What do I do if the Social Security Number or the spelling of
       the name is incorrect on a savings bond?
       6.3) What should I do if my name or address changes to something
       other than what's shown on my savings bonds?
       6.4) Can I change the registration on my savings bonds to leave
       them to my children or grandchildren? Are there tax consequences?
       6.5) Can I change the registration on my savings bonds to change
       their denomination?
       6.6) What are the rules for changing the registration of savings
       bonds to put them in the name of a personal trust?
       6.7) Do I need the approval of the co-owner or beneficiary to
       change the registration on savings bonds?
       6.8) How can savings bonds registration be changed after a divorce?
       6.9) Can I change the registration of my savings bonds to give them
       to a religious or charitable organization?
       6.10) How can changing the registration on my savings bonds affect
       my taxes?

7) REGISTRATION FOR TRUSTS AND ORGANIZATIONS

   7.1) What is fiduciary savings bond registration and what types are
       available?
       7.2) How can I include savings bonds in a living trust or an IRA?
       7.3) I want to leave my saving bonds to a religious or charitable
       organization. How do I register them?
       7.4) Can savings bonds be registered in the name of an executor or
       administrator?
       7.5) Can savings bonds be registered in the name of an institution,
       government or other organization?

                          Updated December 28, 2001
