http://matheson.house.gov/issues2.cfm?id=953

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |



     Matheson Gains Funding for City After School Project

     At Risk Youth Will Benefit


     Washington, D.C.Rep. Jim Matheson said today that $1.2 million for
     Salt Lake Citys YouthCity Empowerment Project is included in the
     Labor and Health and Human Services Appropriations measure that
     passed today.


     Matheson fought for funding for the project, which serves large
     numbers of young people left alone during after-school hours, with a
     particular focus on Salt Lake Citys growing ethnic population.


     Salt Lake City School District serves more than 25,000 students who
     speak 82 different first languages.  Half of these students live at
     or below the federal poverty level, with 30% coming from single
     parent households, said Matheson.  Good after school programs are a
     vital form of support for these working families who want structure
     and supervision for their children, but may not be able to provide
     it on their own.


     Matheson said that most existing after-school programs are targeted
     at young children, under the age of 11.  The YouthCity project aims
     to serve large numbers of young people between the ages of 11-17.
     Young people will design many of the components of the project and
     oversight will come from the youth City Advisory Board, made up of
     youth from the communities throughout the city and their adult
     partners.


     Matheson said   Youth Programs would partner with the University of
     Utah College Bound Program to develop college readiness.  YouthCity
     buildings will be open every weekday after school and Saturdays.






                       Send To Printer Email to Friend

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
