http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/mmi.experiment0.pdf

   A MEDLINE® Indexing Experiment Using Terms Suggested by MetaMap The
   MetaMap Indexing Project Team: Alan R. Aronson James Marcetich Toby G.
   Port October 9, 1997
   IndexingbiomedicalliteratureforNLM'sMEDLINEdatabaseisalabor-intensiveta
   skrequiring highly trained professionals. Indexers must not only be
   familiar with a substantial area of biomed- icine but also the indexing
   policy which defines the standard for indexing at NLM. For non- English
   journals, there is the additional complication of language translation.
   An aid to indexing which facilitates the selection of indexing terms
   without hindering the intellectual task of charac- terizing the
   literature would benefit indexers, NLM and the users of MEDLINE. The
   experiment described here constitutes an initial assessment of whether
   indexing terms suggested by MetaMap, a program which maps biomedical
   text to terms in the UMLS® Metathesaurus,® con- stitutes such an
   indexing aid. The experiment was conducted by the MetaMap Indexing
   (MMI) Project as part of NLM's Indexing Initiative together with the
   assistance of six experienced index- ers from Bibliographic Services
   Division (BSD) and technical support for the AIMS system from the
   Office of Computer and Communications Systems (OCCS). The following
   sections describe the design of the experiment, details of conducting
   the experiment, the results, and a discussion with suggestions for
   future work. 1. Experimental Design 1. Experimental Design A simple way
   to determine the usefulness of MetaMap-suggested indexing terms is to
   present such terms to indexers actually performing indexing. This
   observation provided the impetus for the design of the experiment. The
   main components of the design are discussed below: * Scope of the
   experiment: For the initial indexing experiment, it was clear that the
   number of articles to be indexed and the number of indexers
   participating in the experiment should be rela- tively modest. It
   served no purpose to strain NLM's indexing capacity with a large
   experiment when much could be learned from a small experiment.
   Furthermore the simplicity of the experi- ment allowed for easily
   conducting further experiments as necessary. * Indexer participation:
   Because the experiment would add minor but non-trivial intellectual
   effort to the indexing process, it was decided to use experienced
   indexers in the experiment. Such indexers could be expected to maintain
   focus on the indexing task and at the same time be well able to report
   the effect of the experiment on the indexing process. * Journal
   selection: In order to keep the experiment as simple as possible, each
   indexer participat- ing in the experiment would index all articles from
   a single issue of a journal on a subject within his/her area of
   expertise. * MetaMap processing: After each of the articles to be
   indexed was entered into the PREMED- LINE database, the title and
   abstract fields would be obtained and processed by MetaMap. The result
   would be a ranked list of concepts representing MetaMap's suggested
   indexing terms. * Indexing and completion of survey: The indexers would
   index the articles in their assigned jour- nal issue as usual using the
   AIMS system. The one difference is that the MetaMap-suggested indexing
   terms were pre-loaded into the MeSH field which is normally empty at
   the beginning of indexing. After indexing all articles the indexers
   would complete a survey designed to cap- ture their observations on the
   experiment. * Analysis: The last step in the experiment would consist
   of both a technical analysis comparing the MetaMap-suggested indexing
   terms with those actually chosen by the indexers and also an informal
   analysis of the completed surveys. The technical analysis would provide
   an objective evaluation measure, and the informal analysis would
   attempt to assess user satisfaction with the experimental indexing
   process. 2. Conducting the Experiment 2.1 Indexers and Journals The
   experiment was conducted as outlined above. Six experienced indexers
   volunteered for the experiment: * Monika Devay (Technical Information
   Specialist, BSD) * Esther Lawrence (Chemist, BSD) * Rebecca Stanger
   (Technical Information Specialist, BSD) * German Tello (Technical
   Information Specialist, BSD) * Janice Ward (Technical Information
   Specialist, BSD) * Joe Thomas (Technical Information Specialist, BSD)
   MEDLINE Indexing Experiment 2 2. Conducting the Experiment The
   following six journal issues containing fifty-four articles were chosen
   by James Marcetich: * Clin Physiol 1997 May; 17(3). 10 articles. * Int
   J Immunopharmcol 1996 Dec; 18 (12). 11 articles. * Int J Clin Pharmacol
   Res 1996; 16 (4-5). 6 articles. * Psychiatry Res 1997 Apr 18; 70 (1). 6
   articles. * J Reprod Med 1997 May; 42 (5). 14 articles. * Cancer Gene
   Ther 1997 May-Jun; 4 (3). 7 articles. 2.2 MetaMap Processing Consider
   the following example of a PREMEDLINE record for an article in Clinical
   Physiology: UI - 97315978 TI - Post-exercise depression of baroreflex
   slowing of the heart in humans. AU - Ulman LG AU - Potter EK AU -
   McCloskey DI AU - Morris MJ AD - Prince of Wales Medical Research
   Institute, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Sydney, Australia. AB -
   In normal human subjects, we tested whether a 20- to 30-min period of
   rhythmic exercise, intended to provoke strong activation of the
   sympathetic nerves, would lead to prolonged inhibition of vagally
   mediated bradycardia evoked reflexly by stimulation of the barorecep-
   tors by neck suction. Negative pressure within the neck cuff (-40 to
   -80 mmHg) reflexly evoked a reproducible increase in pulse interval.
   Following exercise, this increase in pulse interval was reduced from
   444 +/- 104 ms to 76 +/- 57 ms (mean +/- SEM). Recovery time was 42 +/-
   9 min. These findings demonstrate a prolonged attenuation of cardiac
   vagal action following rhythmic exercise in normal human subjects. It
   is known that neuropeptide Y (NPY) is released from cardiovascular
   sympathetic nerves, that it attenuates cardiac vagal action and that
   plasma levels of NPY are elevated for a prolonged period after
   exercise. Therefore, it is proposed that NPY, released from sympathetic
   nerves during exercise, atten- uates reflexly evoked cardiac vagal
   action for a prolonged period after exercise ends. SO - Clin Physiol
   1997 May;17(3):299-309 The complete ranked list of MeSH terms found by
   MetaMap is: 39.8 Baroreflex 34.0 Exercise 34.0 Depression 31.6
   Neuropeptide Y 23.1 Heart 18.0 Menstruation 12.7 Multiple Sclerosis
   12.6 Pulse 10.9 Pressoreceptors 7.7 Bradycardia MEDLINE Indexing
   Experiment 3 2. Conducting the Experiment 6.6 Inhibition (Psychology)
   6.5 Lead 6.5 Plasma 6.4 Neck 5.0 Pressure 5.0 Suction 3.3 Time Note
   that terms with a ranking score less than 10.0 appeared to be very
   unhelpful as suggested indexing terms. In order to avoid overwhelming
   the indexers with such terms, only terms achiev- ing a ranking score of
   10.0 or greater were presented to them. In addition since suggested
   terms were actually entered into the MeSH field of the online system,
   the ranking scores were omitted so that the indexers would not have to
   manually delete them. Thus for the example above, the list of
   MetaMap-suggested terms was: Baroreflex Exercise Depression
   Neuropeptide Y Heart Menstruation Multiple Sclerosis Pulse
   Pressoreceptors 2.3 The Indexing We met with the indexers to explain
   the overall experimental methodology and in particular that the
   indexing terms suggested by MetaMap would appear in the MeSH field of
   the online system. They were to index as they normally would except
   that they could consult the suggested terms. They could add additional
   terms and also subheadings, and they could delete inappropriate sug-
   gested terms. We also warned them that the 1997 edition of the UMLS
   Metathesaurus contains some unfortunate synonyms which are common
   words. For example, the synonyms Changing and Changed of the concept
   Menopause causes MetaMap to suggest Menopause for text containing any
   form of the verb to change. Similarly Dose is a synonym of Gonorrhea,
   so that text concern- ing drug dosages maps to Gonorrhea. 2.4 The
   Survey The MetaMap survey completed by each of the indexers after
   finishing the experimental indexing was primarily developed by Toby
   Port. It consisted of the following questions: 1. What is the MRI for
   the journal indexed? 2. Was this a helpful tool in indexing? ___yes
   ___no Please explain why you answered yes or no. 3a. What did you like
   about having the supplied subject headings list? 3b. What didn't you
   like about having the supplied subject headings list? MEDLINE Indexing
   Experiment 4 3. Experimental Results 4. Was the supplied list of terms:
   ___too short ___too long ___just about right 5. Did using the metamap
   supplied terms change the way you indexed the article? ___yes ___no
   Please describe any changes. 6a. Were the instructions for this project
   clear? ___yes ___no 6b. What comments, suggestions, do you have for
   revising the instructions? 7a. The next phase of this indexing
   experiment will involve more INDEXERS and journals. Do you think this
   is warranted at this time? 7b. Do you have any suggestions or concerns
   for implementing the next phase? ___yes ___no 3. Experimental Results
   Continuing with the example article introduced above, the MeSH field
   defined by the indexer for the article is: MH - Adult MH -
   Baroreflex/*PHYSIOLOGY MH - Blood Pressure MH - Exercise/*PHYSIOLOGY MH
   - Female MH - *Heart Rate MH - Human MH - Male MH - Neuropeptide
   Y/BLOOD MH - Pressoreceptors/PHYSIOLOGY MH - Pulse MH - Respiration MH
   - Support, Non-U.S. Gov't Recall that the terms suggested by MetaMap
   are: *Baroreflex *Exercise Depression Neuropeptide Y Heart Menstruation
   Multiple Sclerosis Pulse Pressoreceptors where those terms accepted by
   the indexer appear in bold face, and main headings are starred. This
   result looks quite good; several of the suggested terms were used in
   the actual indexing and the main points are at the top of the suggested
   list. An example in which the list of suggested terms was not
   particularly useful consists of the MeSH field: MEDLINE Indexing
   Experiment 5 3. Experimental Results MH - Animal MH - Antibodies,
   Helminth/ANALYSIS MH - Antigens, Helminth/IMMUNOLOGY/THERAPEUTIC USE MH
   - Female MH - Granuloma/PATHOLOGY MH - IgG/IMMUNOLOGY MH -
   IgM/IMMUNOLOGY MH - Immune Tolerance MH - Immunotherapy,
   Active/*STANDARDS MH - Liver/PATHOLOGY MH - Liver Diseases/PATHOLOGY MH
   - Lung/PATHOLOGY MH - Lung Diseases/PATHOLOGY MH - Mice MH - Mice,
   Inbred C57BL MH - Parasite Egg Count MH - Praziquantel/THERAPEUTIC USE
   MH - Schistosoma mansoni/IMMUNOLOGY MH - Schistosomiasis mansoni/*DRUG
   THERAPY/*PREVENTION & CONTROL MH - Support, Non-U.S. Gov't MH -
   Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S. and the suggested MetaMap terms:
   Schistosomiasis Ovum Gonorrhea Granuloma Vaccines Drug Therapy Mice IgG
   Injections Infection Menopause Helminthiasis Helminths Eggs
   *Schistosoma mansoni Here, many of the suggested terms are not used in
   actual indexing, only one term used is main, and the used terms are not
   grouped toward the top of the list. 3.1 Formal Results The degree to
   which the ranked lists of suggested indexing terms match the terms
   chosen by the indexers can be estimated by computing the average
   precision of the one to the other. This was MEDLINE Indexing Experiment
   6 3. Experimental Results done for each indexed article. Then an
   average for each journal and an overall average were com- puted. They
   are displayed in the following table: Journal Average Precision (%)
   Clin Physiol 64.0 Int J Immunopharmcol 77.6 Int J Clin Pharmacol Res
   76.6 Psychiatry Res 71.0 J Reprod Med 82.3 Cancer Gene Ther 68.8 All
   74.2 Table 1. Technical Measure of the Quality of Suggested MetaMap
   Index Terms The values in Table 1 are quite high compared to normal
   average precision values of 60% or less. Unfortunately these optimistic
   values are not echoed in the survey results below. 3.2 Survey Results
   Perhaps the most succinct summarization of the indexer's reaction to
   the experiment is that it seemed like revising examples of (poor)
   novice indexing. Indeed many of the indexers tried to understand and
   correct the suggested indexing rather than using the suggested terms in
   an advi- sory way. This added an additional intellectual burden to the
   normal indexing process and for some of the indexers transformed the
   task from a purely creative one to a less desirable revision task.
   Specific comments made by the indexers have been organized by type and
   listed below: * Comments on suggested terms: "Mostly unrelated terms
   supplied, or only remotely related." "Obviously needed terms not
   supplied." "... some of the terms seem to come up from nowhere in the
   article. GONORRHEA was sup- plied in 3 articles although it was not
   mentioned." "The specificity was lacking." "The terms provided were not
   accurate in many cases. Many were wrong while others were not specific
   enough. The terms that were correct were obvious indexing terms so it
   didn't help in coming up with the more obscure terms." "The root word
   of the MeSH term was there, but not necessarily the most specific term,
   or even the proper category (tree). ... This could be a potential
   disaster for an indexer going very quickly, or unfamiliar with all of
   MeSH." "The key words in the articles were more precise and correct
   than the MetaMap terms." "Most of the time the terms were not terms I
   wanted to index. They were either inappropriate or lacked specificity
   or were third tier." * Comments on time or effort: "Potentially
   confusing, makes indexing more difficult because of need to eliminate
   not-needed, too general, faulty concepts." "The list saves the indexer
   some time typing and looking-up of terms." MEDLINE Indexing Experiment
   7 4. Discussion and Future Work "[The presence of spurious terms]
   cancelled out the time saved mentioned above." (see the immediately
   previous comment) "The time saved in having the terms printed was lost
   in deleting and modifying other terms." "It seemed to take me longer in
   general." * Miscellaneous comments: "I see the usefulness of this
   MetaMap more for CHEMICALS than anything else." "Include a broader
   range of journals-more pre-clinical." "The MetaMap did not take into
   consideration the MeSH annotations, which tell you how to use the
   term." In general the indexers found many problems with the suggested
   terms and disliked the change in the nature of the task from original
   indexing to revision. Nevertheless, they were intrigued by the
   experiment and provided cautious encouragement for further
   experimentation. A final recommen- dation from the indexers is
   represented by the following comment made by one of them: "I think
   improvement in the indexing should be made and this current exercise
   repeated before any further implementation of a next phase." 4.
   Discussion and Future Work The most important conclusion to be drawn
   from this experiment is that indexing terms suggested by MetaMap are
   far from being adequate in supporting the current indexing effort at
   NLM. The suggested terms are often too general or completely
   inappropriate. Improving the accuracy and specificity of MetaMap
   becomes the most important first step in correcting this situation.
   This has been a long-term goal for MetaMap anyway; this experiment
   reinforces the need for more accu- rate MetaMapping. Examples of ways
   to accomplish this include * Accounting for global frequency of terms.
   The current ranking function relies heavily on MeSH tree depth to
   estimate term specificity. It does not penalize frequently occurring
   terms which tend to also be general in nature. Adequately accounting
   for global term frequency should reduce the ranking score of general
   terms enough so that they would not even be presented to the indexers
   for consideration; * Providing special-case processing for indexing.
   Many of the completely inappropriate terms result from mappings that
   are correct only within a limited context that does not include index-
   ing the biomedical literature. The most common examples of these
   spurious mappings can be enumerated and prevented in much the same way
   as stop word lists are used. * Improving MetaMap's tokenization.
   Currently MetaMap pays no attention to case of the text it processes
   and little attention to organizational clues provided by punctuation.
   An improved, hierarchical tokenization regime which will be able to
   accurately detect acronym/abbreviation definitions and other
   higher-level constructs such as numeric expressions or bibliographic
   cita- tions is being developed. Despite the fact that short-term
   efforts must focus on improving MetaMap's accuracy, it is worth
   mentioning some future work that is suggested by comments made by the
   indexers: * Full text processing. The efforts suggested above may not
   adequately improve the specificity of MetaMap processing. It may be the
   case that titles and abstracts of articles contain more general MEDLINE
   Indexing Experiment 8 4. Discussion and Future Work terms and that the
   specific terms appropriate for indexing mainly occur in the full text
   of the article. Full text experiments may be warranted in the future. *
   Accounting for MeSH annotations. The MeSH annotations define the usage
   for MeSH terms. MetaMap would be far more successful if it respected
   these annotations. Although automatic processing of the annotation
   fields by computer is a wildly ambitious suggestion, it is likely that
   some of the more stereotypical annotation information could be
   processed and made available for use by MetaMap. MEDLINE Indexing
   Experiment 9
