http://ippex.pppl.gov/mission.htm

   #ToC Home



              THE INTERNET PLASMA PHYSICS EDUCATION EXPERIENCE

             home | contact | search | privacy & security notice



                 [spacer.gif]
                 Education
                 [spacer.gif]

                 [bullet.gif] About Fusion
                 [bullet.gif] Interactive Shockwave Physics
                 [bullet.gif] Virtual Tokamak
                 [bullet.gif] Ask a Physicist
                 [bullet.gif] Fusion Data Analysis
                 [spacer.gif]
                 Information
                 [spacer.gif]

                 [bullet.gif] Home
                 [bullet.gif] Mission
                 [bullet.gif] Science Education At PPPL
                 [bullet.gif] PPPL Home
                 [spacer.gif]
                 Support
                 [spacer.gif]

                 [bullet.gif] Search
                 [bullet.gif] The Crew
                 [bullet.gif] Site Map
                 [bullet.gif] Privacy & Security
                 [spacer.gif]

                           IPPEX Mission Statement

             what IPPEX is all about - stuff you should know...

    The Internet Plasma Physics Education eXperience (IPPEX) site on the
   World Wide Web (at http://ippex.pppl.gov/) allows students and teachers
   to participate remotely in scientific research at the country's largest
                          fusion energy laboratory.
    The approach to the scientific material in IPPEX is, as Paul De Hart
   Hurd ("Reforming Science Education: The Search for a New Vision", 1984)
   recommends, "holistic, ecological, qualitative, inductive, complex, and
                                value-laden."
    All students should develop a basic understanding of the principles,
   methods and vocabulary of science. Unfortunately, only one-fifth of US
      high school students enroll in physics courses. It is hoped that
        hands-on, discovery-based approaches to science will generate
           enthusiasm for science and dispel fears of difficulty.
     IPPEX uses interactive multimedia over the World Wide Web to engage
    students in formulating questions and creating meaning from their own
   experiences. Rather than passively learning facts and following routine
   instructions, students solve problems and learn how to find information
     and solutions in complex, non-linear material (as actual scientists
       must). Some activities are similar to a video game or a CD-ROM
   presentation. Abstract concepts, such as nuclear energy, are developed
          from concrete experience and examples from everyday life.
   Engaging background material on energy, matter, electricity, magnetism
   and the laws of motion is woven into a scenario that motivates today's
   plasma scientists: "By better understanding the forces of the universe
   we can harness the energy of the sun and stars to improve human life in
                    an environmentally responsible way."
     Students create a knowledge base that helps them operate a virtual
      tokamak (a fusion energy device) and analyze data from the actual
    experiment (which may have been acquired just minutes before) in the
                  same way that professional physicists do.
   While motivation from and discussions with teachers and other students
   is vital to learning, interactive web-based learning can be individual
      and self-paced. Students who feel threatened by the complexity of
    science may find web-based learning more appealing. The path through
    the knowledge web can be tailored to individual needs, whether for a
    special project in a gifted-and-talented program or for students who
                     need more time to digest material.

                                     top

      IPPEX addresses 5 of the NJ Core Curriculum Content Standards for
                  Science (from the February, 1996 draft):
       5.1 All students will learn to identify systems of interacting
   components and understand how their interactions combine to produce the
                       overall behavior of the system.
     5.2 All students will develop problem-solving, decision-making and
        inquiry skills, reflected by formulating usable questions and
    hypotheses, planning experiments, conducting systematic observations,
   interpreting and analyzing data, drawing conclusions, and communicating
                                  results.
          5.5 All students will integrate mathematics as a tool for
       problem-solving in science, and as a means of expressing and/or
                        modeling scientific theories.
      5.8 All students will gain an understanding of the structure and
                             behavior of matter.
     5.9 All students will gain an understanding of natural laws as they
            apply to motion, forces, and energy transformations.
        IPPEX uses a variety of presentation approaches. For example,
   open-ended questions are used in some cases and, in others, answers to
     multiple choice questions can be e-mailed in. Some modules require
     students to proceed screen by screen, while others present overview
      material at the top level and students can delve into areas that
     interest them via "hot-links" in the text. Feedback from teachers,
   students and formal educational assessments may help us understand what
                       works best for which students.
       Personal background material is presented on the physicists and
        engineers to make the science more personal and value-laden.
     Version 1 of IPPEX was produced during the fiscal year 1996 at the
    Princeton University Plasma Physics Laboratory as part of a National
      Science Foundation grant, administered by the Center for Improved
    Engineering and Science Education (CIESE) at the Stevens Institute of
     Technology. In fiscal year 2001 (which started October 1, 2001) the
     IPPEX web site will be in Version 7. This version of IPPEX web site
       will be field tested and extended to fit better with classroom
                curricula and with science education reforms.

                       back to homepage back top next

    home - about fusion - interactive physics - ask a physicist - virtual
                                   tokamak

                 fusion data analysis - the crew - site map


   Please email ekaiser@pppl.gov with any website concerns/problems.


   Copyright © 2001 IPPEX ONLINE

   all rights reserved.





   to view the interactive plasma display research website click here.
