http://www.kpl.gov/ya/royalreads.html

   HOMEPAGE
   KPL Catalog
   ABOUT THE LIBRARY
   REFERENCE DESK
   ONLINE RESOURCES
   LOCAL HISTORY
   CHILDRENS SERVICES
   YOUNG ADULT SERVICES
   AUDIOVISUAL
   PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
   FRIENDS OF THE LIBRARY
   [bottom.gif]

   ROYAL wpeA.gif (3339 bytes) READS [backbutton.gif]

   Royal Reads

               Selected by Kevin King, Teen Services Librarian


                           wpe2.jpg (33558 bytes)


                       2002 WB01430_.gif (6251 bytes)


             backWORDS – Book Discussion Group for Grades 10-12

          Thursdays, 5:00-6:15 pm, Central – Teen Services Office



   Kalamazoo’s only book group for older teens!  Talk "back" about the
   "words" you read! Join other teen readers in an interactive gabfest of
   the latest cutting edge novels. Food will always be provided.

   Below are the first five books we will be reading! Pick up a free copy
   of each month’s book at the Teen Desk. Five lucky participants will get
   to keep the book! Registration required.
     * January 24, The Perks of Being A Wallflower, Stephen Chbosky

     This is the story of what it's like to grow up in high school. More
       intimate than a diary, Charlie's letters are singular and unique,
       hilarious and devastating. We may not know where he lives. We may
       not know to whom he is writing. All we know is the world he shares.
       Caught between trying to live his life and trying to run from it
       puts him on a strange course through uncharted territory. The world
       of first dates and mixed tapes, family dramas and new friends. The
       world of sex, drugs, and The Rocky Horror Picture Show, when all
       one requires is that perfect song on that perfect drive to feel
       infinite.


     * February 21, Downers Grove, Michael Hornburg

     * Downers Grove is the haunting and tender story of Chrissie Swanson,
       a paranoid high school senior for whom graduating has become a
       matter of life or death. She's an unusual girl in an ordinary town
       and her eccentric grandmother is the only source of wisdom in a
       rapid downward spiral. As Chrissie tries to take control of the
       events that shape her life, she finds the events beginning to take
       control of her, until she is finally cornered by choices with
       everlasting consequences. Full of humor, wit, and the sacrilegious
       worldview of a savvy teenager, Downers Grove paints a searing
       portrait of the American dream in all its broken glory.

     * March 21, Diamond Dogs, Alan Watt

     * Star quarterback Neil Garvin is the envy of other students in his
       Nevada high school-and is almost as cruel to them as his abusive
       father is to him. Then one night on a dark, isolated road outside
       of town, a random act of violence takes a life. Nothing, Neil
       swears, could ever be worse...until his father, the local sheriff,
       takes control and masterminds a cover-up. Emotionally deadened and
       wrestling with the mystery of his mother's disappearance years ago,
       Neil must somehow find his way out of his prison of fear...and
       discover the one thing that can truly set him free.

     * April 11, The Body of Christopher Creed, Carol Plum-Ucci

     * Chris Creed grew up as the class freak-the bullies' punching bag.
       After he vanished, the weirdness that had once surrounded him began
       spreading. It was as if darkness reached out of his void to grab at
       the most normal, happy people-like some twisted joke or demented
       form of justice. It tore the town apart. Sixteen-year-old Torey
       Adams's search for answers opens his eyes to the lies, the pain,
       and the need to blame when tragedy strikes, and his once-safe world
       comes crashing down around him.


     * May 23, Staying Fat for Sarah Byrnes, Chris Crutcher

     * When Sarah Byrnes was three years old, her condition became
       synonymous with her surname. Her face and hands were badly burned
       in a mysterious accident, and her father refused to allow
       reconstructive surgery. She developed a suit of cold, stainless
       steel armor to defend herself against the taunts of a world
       insensitive to her pain. You enter into Sarah Byrnes's world on her
       terms, or you don't enter. Enter Eric Calhoune--Moby to his
       friends. Eric passed through his early years on a steady diet of
       Oreos and Twinkies and root beer floats and he sports the girth to
       prove it. Because of their "terminal uglies," he and Sarah Byrnes
       have become true masters in the art of underhanded revenge directed
       at anyone who dares to offend their sensibilities. When Eric turns
       out for the high school swimming team, he begins to shed layers of
       extra poundage. Fearing the loss of the one friendship he
       treasures, he gorges to "stay fat for Sarah Byrnes," who discovers
       his motive and threatens to beat him more senseless than she thinks
       he already is. Then the truth of Sarah Byrnes's horrific past
       finally catches up with her.


   [aquabar.jpg]
