http://www.nih.gov/about/aboutweb.html

   Skip Over Navigation Links

   NIH National Institutes of Health, DHHS
   Health Information Grants & Funding Opportunities News Scientific
   Resources Institutes, Centers & Offices About NIH Building 1
     Back to NIH Home Page

   Recent Changes to This Site

   WWW.NIH.GOV serves as the principal Web site and home page for the
   National Institutes of Health. The site was established in 1993 and has
   grown to serve as an important resource in helping NIH accomplish its
   mission. The purpose of the main NIH site is to:
     * provide an overview of NIH, serve as a point-of-entry to the many
       individual organizations make-up NIH,
     * assist our users in finding relevant information and services, and
     * highlight important items of interest to the public and the medical
       research community.

   Oversight and direction for this site are provided by the NIH World
   Wide Web Coordinating Committee, which includes members from both
   individual NIH Institutes as well as different components within the
   Office of the Director, NIH. The Committee is chaired by the Associate
   Director for Communications. Technical support, design services and
   administration of the NIH Web server are provided by the Center for
   Information Technology.

   For more information about the NIH World Wide Web Coordinating
   Committee, questions concerning the management and content of this
   site, site accessibility, graphic and design issues, and technical
   questions about the NIH server, write to olib@od.nih.gov.

   Below is a chronology of selected, major additions to the on-line
   services offered by NIH that can be accessed via the NIH home page.

   December 28, 2001
   Redesigned Spanish Language Web site
   The Institutos Nationales de la Salud site http://salud.nih.gov/ has a
   new look and more navigation options to help users find information
   easily. The list of Health Publications (in Spanish) has been updated
   and the online ordering system is easier to use. Features include more
   institute and center information, and links to news, current research,
   and radio.

   December 19, 2001
   New NBRSS site
   The NIH Business and Research Support System (NBRSS) site has been
   developed to provide you with information about the new NIH Business
   System (NBS), which will be implemented over the next 3-4 years. This
   site includes extensive background information as well as on-line
   access to their monthly newsletter, NBRSS Today.

   September 18, 2001
   New NIDCD logo
   The logo was designed to give a sense of both the microcosm and the
   macrocosm of communication. Award wining artist and designer Salvador
   Bru created the logo in collaboration with the NIDCD Office of Health
   Communication and Public Liaison and staff of the NIDCD. The logo was
   to incorporate visual dynamism to give a sense of movement and
   progress, as well as reflecting qualities of all the seven areas of the
   science of human communication. It has been designed to be usable in
   both print and electronic formats.

   September 4, 2001
   National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases
   (NIAMS) Web Site Redesigned
   The content has been reorganized into five major categories: Health
   Information, Research and Training 충 Around the Country, Research and
   Training 충 Bethesda Campus, News & Events and About NIAMS. There is a
   new look and more navigation options to help users find information
   easily.

   April 27, 2001
   New Features added to NIH Home Page
   The NIH Home page will now include more current items. Included are a
   "What's New" section which will feature selected NIH News Releases, and
   other items of interest and will change daily; and a "Featured Site".

   February 6, 2001
   National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Web Site Redesigned
   As part of their ongoing commitment to provide you with access to the
   latest research on substance abuse, NIDA has redesigned their Web site.
   The site has been organized based on audience while making general
   information about NIDA easier to find. For example, information and
   features that are most interesting to Researchers and Health
   Professionals, Parents and Teachers, and Students, are now organized
   under these headings.

   February 5, 2001
   New Consolidated NIH Jobs Website
   The NIH now has "one-stop-shopping" for employment information. Links
   such as CareerHere, Summer Internships for Non-Scientific Positions,
   Senior Job Opportunities, Research Training Opportunities and Summer
   Internships in Biomedical Research may now be found on this website.
   Quick links take you to job applications, which must now be submitted
   online.

   January 4, 2001
   Office of Administration
   The Office of Administration is pleased to introduce its new official
   website. The site promises to be a complete interactive tool for
   electronic information and support assistance for OA programs and
   services. A few examples of information you can find include: contracts
   and contract support, acquisition management, property, NIH
   Manuals/Delegations of Authority, and organizational support.

   View Archive

   This page was last reviewed on July 5, 2000.

   [ Q&A About NIH | Employment Opportunities | Visitor Information | FOIA
   ]
   [ Recent Changes to This Site | Information for Employees | Informaci칩n
   en espa침ol | Search ]
   [ Contact Us | Privacy Notice | Disclaimer | Accessibility]

  NIH Logo National Institutes of Health (NIH)
           Bethesda, Maryland 20892               DHHS Logo Department of Health
                                                            and Human Services
