http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/news-release/releases/2002/02-006.htm

   [spacer.gif]

   Contact:
   William Steigerwald
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
   Phone: 301/286-5017

   [spacer.gif] NASA News Header [spacer.gif]

   Jan. 7, 2002 - 9:20 a.m. EST - RELEASE NO: 02-006

   THE "BIG GLITCHER" PULSAR REVEALS A LONG-HIDDEN, EXOTIC INTERIOR

   Scientists see a few glitches in an otherwise flawless spin of a
   pulsar, and this is a good thing. These glitches, a term given to the
   sudden change in pulsar spin frequency, are revealing the strange
   physics of the high-pressure interior of the pulsar, a long-standing
   mystery.

   A pulsar named PSR J0537-6910 appears to have the highest rate of
   glitches of any known pulsar, according to a team led by Frank Marshall
   of NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. These glitches
   occur seven times more frequently than in the Vela pulsar, the former
   "glitcher king," and are also among the strongest ever observed.

   The high rate and strength of these glitches suggest that they are
   caused by movements in a frictionless superfluid of neutrons in the
   pulsar's interior. These results, the product of a 2.6-year
   observational campaign with NASA's Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer, are
   presented today at the 199th Meeting of the American Astronomical
   Society in Washington, D.C.

   A pulsar is a neutron star that emits steady pulses of radiation with
   each spin. A neutron star is the core remains of a star once several
   times more massive than our Sun. In an event called a supernova, such a
   large star -- having expended its nuclear fuel -- expels its outer
   shell of gas into the surrounding medium. The core, still containing
   about the mass of Sun, collapses to form a densely packed sphere no
   wider than about 10 miles.

   Pulsars spin with clock-like precision, keeping time to within a
   millisecond over the course of a year as the spin very gradually slows
   down. During a glitch, the pulsar suddenly starts to spin a little
   faster. Rarely do astronomers see more than one or two big glitches in
   a pulsar over many years of observation. Yet PSR J0537-6910 has had six
   big glitches in about two-and-a-half years. Each glitch releases more
   energy than our Sun does in 3,000 years. All these glitches make PSR
   J0537-6910 a "pretty horrible clock," according to Marshall. Yet there
   is a plus side: "Observing glitches is one of the few ways we have to
   study the interior of a neutron star," he said.

   Scientists say that the crust of the pulsar, a dense plate of
   crystalline matter, spins more slowly and slows down at a different
   rate than the immediate interior, a superfluid of neutrons. (A
   superfluid is a fluid without friction. Certain liquids can become
   superfluid under tremendous pressure and heat; other liquids, such as
   helium, become superfluid at extremely cold temperatures.) As the value
   of the two speeds widens, the superfluid reaches a critical moment and,
   like a flywheel, suddenly transfers its built-up angular momentum to
   the crust, causing the "exterior" of the neutron star to spin faster.

   The glitch's size -- that is, how much it quickens the pulsar spin --
   is a reflection of the mass, density and other characteristics of the
   theorized superfluid within. The Rossi team has also observed tiny
   changes in the pulsar spin rate just before a glitch, which has never
   been recorded before, and this too may provide new insight to the
   glitch phenomenon.

   What scientists know about pulsar interiors so far has come largely
   from the study of a handful of "glitchers," particularly the Vela
   pulsar, which has exhibited 13 glitches in the past 25 years. Newcomer
   PSR J0537-6910, discovered by the Rossi Explorer in 1998 and now known
   to glitch so frequently, will likely become a major source for
   exploration into the subsurface of pulsars to understand how the
   pressure of pulsar matter depends on its density. This is called the
   equation of state, a long-standing mystery for pulsars that would
   reveal the pulsar's mass-to-radius characteristic.

   PSR J0537-6910 is already in the record books as the fastest young
   (5,000 years old) pulsar, spinning once every 16 milliseconds, 6
   million times faster than the Earth's spin. PSR J0537-6910 is also an
   X-ray pulsar not visible in other wavelengths. It is located in our
   neighboring Large Magellenic Cloud, an irregular galaxy visible to the
   naked eye from the Southern Hemisphere.

   Other members of the observation team -- the same team that discovered
   this pulsar in 1998 -- are William Zhang of NASA Goddard, Eric Gotthelf
   of Columbia University, John Middleditch of the Los Alamos National
   Laboratory, and Q. Daniel Wang of the University of Massachusetts.
   Continued observations of PSR J0537-6910 with the Rossi Explorer are
   planned for 2002.
