http://www.cap.bnl.gov/spexp/

      Smith-Purcell Radiation at the Brookhaven Accelerator Test Facility

   Privacy and Security Notice

Principle of Smith-Purcell Radiation

   Smith-Purcell radiation occurs when a charged particle passes close to
   a periodically varying metallic surface. In the most simple terms one
   can imagine that an electric dipole is formed from the beam particle
   and its image in the metal. Since the surface height is periodic, the
   dipole oscillates and thus produces radiation at a wavelength
   determined by the period, particle velocity, and angle of emission of
   the radiation.

Description of the Experiment

   The experiments were conducted with a 2.8 MeV/c electron beam from the
   ATF RF gun. The beam shape was measured using a phosphor coated beam
   flag at the grating location. The beam charge could be measured using a
   Faraday cup located downstream of the grating. A series of blazed
   gratings were used with periods around 1 cm. The distance of the beam
   to the grating surface could be remotely adjusted. The optical
   collection system consisted of a remotely rotatable plane mirror, off
   axis parabodial mirror, and a light pipe. The wavelength of the
   radiation was determined with a Czerny-Turner monochromator. The
   radiation power was measured with a liquid helium cooled InSb
   bolometer.

Experimental Results

   This experiment detected Smith-Purcell radiation over the wavelength
   range from 0.6 to 6.0 mm. The wavelengths of the measured Smith-Purcell
   radiation agree with theoretical predictions. The emitted power from
   the electron beam is expected to peak in the forward direction (small
   angles with respect to the beam direction). The experiment observed
   this forward peaking for the first time in Smith-Purcell radiation. The
   radiation was detected with grating period to wavelength ratios as high
   as 16. The measured intensities were much higher than those predicted
   from incoherent emission.

Future Plans

   A new experiment is under construction to measure Smith-Purcell
   radiation in the wavelength region 10 - 100 microns using the high
   energy, 50 MeV beam from the ATF linac.

Additional Information

     * List of collaborators
     * Local documentation
     * Publications

   Privacy and Security Notice

   J. Scott Berg <jsberg@bnl.gov>
   3 April 2000.
