http://www.100.nist.gov/industry.htm

                              Industry Impacts


    Radio stations could reach their audiences with a clearer signal after
                              NIST established a
    standard of frequency and began broadcasting precise frequency signals
    in 1923. NIST frequency services continue to serve radio and television
                 stations, power and telephone companies, the
                       financial community, and others.

     Aerospace, medicine, and manufacturing are among the beneficiaries of
    NIST’s century of research on cryogenics, a branch of physics dealing
    with the production and effects of very low temperatures. For instance,
     in 1931, NIST produced America’s first liquefied helium, the coolant
                   later used in magnetic resonance imaging.

      Financial services, telecommunications companies, and hardware and
     software products rely heavily on the data encryption standard issued
    by NIST in 1977, the first publicly available standard of this type and
     the first cryptographic algorithm endorsed by the federal government.
        Today, NIST is coordinating the development of a more powerful
                              successor standard.

     The semiconductor industry has saved millions of dollars annually and
                               improved product
   quality thanks to the increasingly tiny “rulers” that NIST provides for
    measuring the widths of integrated circuit features. NIST issued its
   first photomask linewidth standard in 1979 and is currently developing
        new measurement approaches, such as direct counting of atoms.

    U.S. companies compete in a fair marketplace today in part because of
    NIST, which convened the first meeting of state weights and measures
   officials in 1905. Accuracy and uniformity in weights and measures have
     improved considerably over the past century, and NIST continues to
          support the National Conference on Weights and Measures.

    Small manufacturing firms gained an important advantage in 1996, when
                                NIST’s Manu-
      facturing Extension Partnership reached its goal of completing a
       nationwide network, enabling all of the more than 361,000 small
    manufacturers in the 50 states and Puerto Rico to gain access to MEP
   assistance centers. MEP services have been boosting smaller companies’
                         competitiveness since 1989.

    The air conditioning and refrigeration industry has saved millions of
       dollars thanks to a computer standard reference database of the
        thermophysical properties of alternative refrigerants (i.e.,
   alternatives to ozone-depleting compounds), introduced by NIST in 1989.
   NIST has provided industry with refrigerant property data for more than
                                  50 years.

     The emerging field of “DNA chips”—miniaturized laboratories that
    quickly analyze the genetic makeup of blood or tissue samples and are
   expected to revolutionize medicine—is among the new industries nurtured
    by NIST funding and research. Other U.S. industries launched in part
      with NIST assistance include optical glass and synthetic rubber.

   Companies that sell bullet-resistant armor to law enforcement agencies
    and military forces worldwide rely on NIST’s standard for ballistic
        resistance of police body armor, one of more than a dozen law
    enforcement standards issued by the Institute since the early 1970s.
        Not a single police officer wearing body armor made to these
   specifications has been killed by penetration or blunt trauma. NIST has
            been involved in forensic work since the early 1900s.

     Since it began in 1987, the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award
     program has helped thousands of organizations improve their overall
   performance. In a survey, CEOs said the Baldrige program was extremely
    or very valuable in stimulating quality improvements (79 percent) and
     competitiveness (67 percent). The Baldrige Criteria for Performance
   Excellence has been called the “single most influential document in the
                   modern history of American business.”

    The once-troubled $7 billion U.S. printed wiring board industry, with
   its 200,000 jobs, was saved by a research project co-funded by NIST’s
      Advanced Technology Program. According to a 1997 study, the joint
      venture led to dramatic efficiencies in research and development,
   accelerated research, and produced significant technological advances.

     In 1999, over 23,000 firms took advantage of NIST’s Manufacturing
   Extension Partnership (MEP) services. In a survey of MEP clients served
    in the last three quarters of FY 1999, 2,942 companies reported that,
      as a result of NIST MEP services, they increased or retained $1.4
   billion in sales, realized $364 million in cost savings, and created or
                            retained 18,153 jobs.

                            Date created: 2/9/01
                            Last updated: 2/9/01
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
