http://www.swpa.gov/interconnection.htm

   [001.gif]

Interconnecting Utilities

Southwestern Power Administration

   Privacy and Security Notice


                                                                      HOME
                                                                  About Us
                                                              Acquisitions
                                                                   Careers
                                                            Competing Uses
                                                                Contact Us
                                                                Generation
                                                           Interconnecting
                                                                     Links
                                                              Organization
                                                              Publications
                                                                 Questions
                                                                     Rates
                                                               System Maps

Interconnection Requests

   Interconnecting Southwestern accepts requests from wholesale entities
   (Requesting Party) to make interconnections with its transmission
   system. Generally, the Requesting Party is responsible for all costs
   incurred by Southwestern associated with the proposed interconnection,
   including those associated with initial planning, detailed design and
   construction activities. Funds for such costs shall be provided to
   Southwestern by the Requesting Party prior to any work being performed
   by Southwestern. Any advance of funds not expended by Southwestern will
   be returned to the Requesting Party. Southwestern will generally
   require ownership of all facilities associated with the proposed
   interconnection which form an integral part of Southwestern’s
   transmission system and/or affect the reliability of Southwestern’s
   system.

   Direct interconnections do not guarantee transmission capacity on
   Southwestern’s system. Southwestern is currently participating in the
   Open Access Transmission Tariff of the Southwest Power Pool. All
   transmission service requests other than those for the delivery of
   Federal power over Southwestern’s transmission system must be made
   through the Southwest Power Pool.

   Initially, the Requesting Party will be required to execute an
   agreement with Southwestern for Southwestern to do a conceptual design
   of the proposal which satisfies Southwestern’s technical* and property
   requirements. As part of the agreement Southwestern will also complete
   its environmental documentation requirements.** The estimated cost for
   work by Southwestern will generally be $35,000, but may be increased
   depending on the level of work required such as the development or
   review of Environmental Assessments or Environmental Impact Statements.
   Upon completion of work, Southwestern will provide the Requesting
   Party:
     * a one-line diagram and table consisting of the general facilities
       requirements including, operation, ownership and maintenance
       responsibilities;
     * property requirements, and
     * Southwestern’s estimated cost and time requirements to proceed with
       the actual design/design review and construction/inspection phase
       of the proposed interconnection.

   The Requesting Party may use this information to determine its
   estimated cost and time requirement to establish the proposed
   interconnection. The Requesting Party shall then advise Southwestern if
   it desires to proceed with the detailed design and construction of the
   proposed interconnection under a subsequent agreement to be executed
   between Southwestern and the requesting party. All design and
   construction is subject to approval and inspection by Southwestern.
   Also, Southwestern shall require additional funds from the Requesting
   Party for all work performed under the subsequent agreement.

     * For more detailed information on Southwestern’s requirements for
     interconnections please refer to Southwestern’s General Requirements
     for Interconnections which is available upon request by contacting
     the Division of Engineering and Planning at 918-595-6706.

     ** Southwestern is required to follow the U.S. Department of
     Energy’s National Environmental Policy Act Implementing Procedures
     10 CFR 1021. If the interconnection request does not involve:
     integration of a new source of generation, change in the operation
     limits of existing generation, provide service to new discrete
     loads, or cause major system changes (new transmission greater than
     10 miles or reconstructing existing transmission lines greater than
     20 miles) and there are no adverse environmental impacts identified,
     Southwestern may be able to prepare a categorical exclusion (CX) and
     proceed with the interconnection. If a CX does not apply, then
     Southwestern will be responsible for the preparation of either an
     environmental assessment (EA) or an environmental impact statement
     (EIS) before the interconnection can proceed. Preparation of a CX,
     EA or EIS can be very costly and take from 6 months to 24 months to
     complete. An EA or EIS may also encompass an environmental review of
     non-Federal facilities additions, such as merchant plants, as well
     as Federal facilities additions required for the interconnection.

   Interconnections may be requested from Southwestern by contacting the
   Division of Customer Service at 918-595-6690.

           Text-Only Version - View Disclaimer - E-mail Webmaster
