http://www.geo.nsf.gov/adgeo/intern_l.htm

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Geo Home Geoscience Staff Site Map and Search Contact Webmasters
   www.nsf.gov
   Atmospheric Sciences Earth Sciences Ocean Sciences

   International Activities

   About the Directorate About the Directorate
   Overview
   Vacancies
   Directorate Activities Directorate Activities
   Advisory Committee
   Interdisciplinary
   International
   Initiatives
   Budget
   Initiatives Initiatives
   GEO 2000
   GEO DIversity
   GEO ITR
   GEO NANOTECHNOLOGY
   International
   GEO Education
   Funding Funding
   Opportunities
   Proposal Information
   Dates and Deadlines
   Awards Search
   What is Geoscience? What is Geoscience?
   Important Announcments Important Announcements
   Research Highlights Research Highlights
   Share Research Results

   S ince the nature of geosciences research is global, the Directorate
   for Geosciences (GEO) also supports international collaborations and
   partnerships. In addition to the research programs supported through
   GEO's three Divisions – Atmospheric, Global Image Earth and Ocean
   Sciences – the Directorate also supports several international,
   multi-disciplinary activities. This support is "in kind" as well as
   financial, and ranges from small planning grants to administrative
   support to full research projects.
   In addition to supporting research, many of the organizations supported
   by the Directorate for Geosciences help facilitate the open exchange of
   data, assist in the movement of scientific equipment across borders,
   provide a fora for the exchange of ideas and a means for international
   planning and costsharing.

     REGIONAL INSTITUTES FOR GLOBAL CHANGE RESEARCH

   The three regional institutes for global change research –
   Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research, European Network
   for Research on Global Change and Asia-Pacific Network for Global
   Change Research – were created to facilitate the integration of global
   change research programs on a regional basis. Each of the various
   institutes/networks are at a different point in their evolution and
   U.S. participation also varies.

   The Inter-American Institute for Global Change Research (IAI) was
   designed to facilitate the flow of scientific resources and data across
   borders for the benefit of all participants, and ultimately to enrich
   the information available to policymakers in all member countries to
   assist in the formulation of policies related to global change. The
   scientific agenda of the IAI is currently focused on four themes that
   were selected as being regionally relevant and globally significant,
   while lending themselves to a multinational research program.

   The IAI current research themes are:

   1. Understanding Climate Variability in the Americas
   – ENSO and Interannual Climate Variability
   – Ocean/Land/Atmosphere Interactions
   – Hydrology

   2. Comparative Studies of Ecosystems, Biodiversity, Land Use, and Water
   Resources in the Americas
   – Tropical Ecosystems and Biogeochemical Cycles
   – Impacts of Climate Change on Biodiversity
   – Comparative Studies of Oceanic, Coastal, and Estuarine Processes
   – Comparative Studies of Terrestrial Ecosystems
   – Changes in Land Use, Land Cover, and in Hydrology and Water Resources

   3. Changes in the – Compoisition of the Atmosphere
   – High Latitude Processes and Ozone
   – Biogeochemical Cycles
   – Comparative Studies of Regional Air and Water Pollution

   4. Integrated Assessments, Human Dimensions, and Applications
   – The National Science Foundation was designated as the lead funding
   agency of the U.S. Government.

   The NSF Program Director for IAI is Dr. Paul Filmer and he can be
   reached via e:mail at pfilmer@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703)
   306-1515.

   The European Network for Research on Global Change (ENRICH) was
   established to pursue a major coherent European contribution to
   international actions on global change research. While considering the
   needs of the European Community (EC), and the European Union (EU) and
   EFTA Member States, ENRICH aims to support the knowledge base for the
   development of EU policy objectives. It intends to do so by acting as a
   clearinghouse for the exchange of information and by promoting
   cooperation in research and capacity building. In addition to promoting
   collaboration in Western Europe (EU and EFTA), ENRICH also aims to
   encourage the endogenous research capabilities in developing countries
   mainly, but not exclusively in Africa and the Mediterranean Basin and
   to promote support for relevant research initiative in the countries of
   Central and Eastern Europe and the New Independent States of the former
   Soviet Union (NIS).

   The NSF liaison to ENRICH is Dr. Paul Filmer and he can be reached via
   e:mail at pfilmer@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703) 306-1515.

   The Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research (APN) is an
   intergovernmental organization recently established to promote global
   change research within the region with emphasis on the need for close
   relations with the global change research programs, for understanding
   the different ways in which priorities should be expressed across the
   region, for ensuring that APN activities have a value-added approach
   and for avoiding any suggestion of duplication. The Environmental
   Agency of the Government of Japan has been providing resources for the
   preparatory process for launching APN. The APN Interim Secretariat can
   be contacted via e:mail at airies@rim.or.jp

   The NSF liaison to APN is Mr. Lou Brown and he can be reached via
   e:mail at lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703) 306-1516.

     OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

     * The Arctic Ocean Sciences Board
       Mr. Lou Brown is the Secretary to the Arctic Ocean Sciences Board
       and he can be reached via e:mail at lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone
       at (703) 306-1516.
     * Global Change SysTem for Analysis, Research and Training (START)
       The Directorate for Geosciences provides support for the Global
       Change System for Analysis, Research and Training (START)
       Mr. Lou Brown is the point of contact for START and he can be
       reached via e:mail at lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703)
       306-1516.
     * IASC
       Mr. Lou Brown is the point of contact for IASC and he can be
       reached via e:mail at lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703)
       306-1516.
     * The International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU)
       The International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU) is a
       non-governmental organization founded to bring together natural
       scientists in international scientific endeavor. ICSU comprises 94
       multidisciplinary National Scientific Members (scientific research
       councils or science academies) and 23 international,
       single-discipline Scientific Unions to provide a wide spectrum of
       scientific expertise enabling members to address major
       international, interdisciplinary issues. ICSU also has 30
       Scientific Associates.
       The point of contact for ICSU within the Directorate for
       Geosciences is Mr. Lou Brown and he can be reached via e:mail at
       lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703) 306-1516.
     * The International Group of Funding Agencies (IGFA)
       The International Group of Funding Agencies (IGFA) is an informal
       partnership of national agencies which fund global change research
       programs and other activities supporting such research. The purpose
       of IGFA is to facilitate international global change research in
       the natural, social and economic sciences by bringing the
       perspective of these national funding agencies to strategic
       planning and implementation of research programs.
       Mr. Lou Brown is the Chair of the IGFA Secretariat and can be
       reached via e:mail at IGFA@nsf.gov or lbrown@nsf.gov or by
       telephone at (703) 306-1516.

     INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION ACTIVITIES

   The Global Learning to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) Program is an
   international program designed to develop links between scientists and
   schoolchildren through a global information network.

   The National Science Foundation participates in GLOBE by providing
   on-going support for research, curriculum development and workshops.
   Funding support is provided through the Directorate for Education and
   Human Resources and the Directorate for Geosciences.

   Dr. Paul Filmer is the point of contact for GLOBE. He can be reached
   via e:mail at pfilmer@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703) 306-1515.

   The SysTem for Analysis, Research, and Training (START) program aims to
   develop a system of regional networks of collaborating scientists and
   institutions that will conduct research on regional aspects of global
   change; assess the causes and impacts of that change; provide relevant
   information to policy makers and governments; enhance the scientific
   capacity in developing countries by strengthening and connecting
   existing institutions by training global change scientists and by
   providing them with improved and enhanced access to data, communication
   technology and research results. The International Human Dimensions
   Programme, International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme and the World
   Climate Research Programme are joint sponsors of START.

   In some parts of the world, particularly the developing regions, the
   ability to conduct regional research is hampered by a lack of
   scientific personnel and adequate infrastructure. The START initiative
   is intended to enhance the indigenous capacity of these regions to
   participate in the various global scientific change research programs.
   A world-encompassing set of regions was initially identified through
   the START initiative some of which are being developed under other
   initiatives such as the IAI and ENRICH. All of the regions are
   important to understanding global change because each has distinctive
   environmental and socio-economic characteristics. Priority is given by
   START to establishing regional research networks in the developing
   world where the needs are greatest.

   Mr. Lou Brown is the NSF liaison to START can reached via e:mail at
   lbrown@nsf.gov or by telephone at (703) 306-1516.

  NSF Celebrating 50 Years Directorate for Geosciences, NSF
  4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 705N, Arlington, Virginia, 22230
  Tel: 703.292.8500 | FAX: 703.292.9042                           Last Modified:
                                                              Jan 7, 2002
                                                              NSF Privacy Policy
