http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/News/NewsReleases/2001/farmablewetlands2.htm

   Iowa NRCS

            2001 News Release

                             [USEMAP:smallbuttons.jpg]

   October 23, 2001

   Good Time to Consider Farmable Wetlands Pilot Program

   "Now is an excellent time to consider enrolling land in the Farmable
   Wetlands Program," says Leroy Brown, State Conservationist for the Iowa
   Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture (USDA) agency that provides technical assistance for the
   new pilot program.

   "We have received applications for less than 1/4 of the 100,000 acres
   slated for Iowa in this pilot," says Brown. "That means there's lots of
   opportunity for landowners to enroll." According to Brown, this is an
   ideal time for farmers to consider the program because they have a good
   chance to see the lay of their land as they're out in the fields this
   fall. "Landowners may come across wet spots in their fields that could
   work well as small restored wetlands," says Brown. Through the Farmable
   Wetlands Program landowners may enroll wetlands up to five acres in
   size and adjoining grass buffers in the continuous signup of the
   Conservation Reserve Program (CRP).

   Brown encourages landowners to visit their local USDA office to see if
   the program will meet their resource needs and operation goals. "NRCS
   staff is available to help landowners complete conservation planning,
   including an economic analysis of entering the program," says Brown.
   "NRCS and FSA staff can then help landowners complete the application
   process."

   Signup for the Farmable Wetlands Program began June 4, 2001, and will
   be continuous through December 31, 2002, says Derryl McLaren, State
   Executive Director for the Iowa Farm Service Agency (FSA), one of the
   USDA agencies administering CRP and the new program. Iowa is one of
   just six states included in the pilot program, and can enroll up to
   100,000 acres.

   "Iowa has been a national leader in conservation buffers as well as
   wetlands restoration for several years. Hopefully this fall Iowa
   landowners will continue the positive trend by enrolling in this pilot
   program for wetland restoration," said McLaren.

   According to McLaren, program participants who enter 10 to 15 year
   contracts will receive financial assistance that includes: rental
   payments based on the county soil rental rate; a
   20 percent incentive payment; and a maintenance payment. These three
   payments can total up to $185/acre/year. Landowners will also receive a
   one-time practice incentive payment and a one-time sign-up incentive
   payment. Cost-share for installation of practices is also available.

   Eligible land must have been cropped or considered cropped in at least
   3 of the past 10 years, and be physically and legally capable of being
   cropped. Land must be wetlands, farmed wetlands or prior converted
   cropland, 5 acres or less in size. Wetlands in the floodplain of a
   perennial stream will not be eligible.

   The acreage needed for wetland protection through buffers is not to
   exceed 3 times the wetland acres, or the maximum buffer width of 150
   feet from the wetland edge, whichever is greater. The minimum buffer
   width is 30 feet. Wetland and practice maintenance will be required
   through the life of the contract. Incidental grazing will be allowed
   after harvest but will involve a 25 percent payment reduction.

   Landowners and operators should contact their local USDA Service Center
   for more details and to sign up in the Farmable Wetlands in CRP.

   -30-

   Contacts: Derryl McLaren, FSA State Executive Director, (515) 254-1540
   Ext. 600

   Mike Musel, FSA (515) 254-1540 Ext. 650

   Mark Lindflott, NRCS, (515) 284-4370

   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
   all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
   origin, sex, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
   orientation, or marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
   apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
   alternative means for communication of program information (Braille,
   large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA*s TARGET Center at
   202-720-2600 (voice and TDD). To file a complaint of discrimination,
   write USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten
   Building, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410
   or call (202) 720-5964 (voice and TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity
   provider and employer.
