http://www.inel.gov/major-programs/science.shtml

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory
   Security/Privacy
   HOME | Site Index | Staff Directory | Jobs | Contact Us
   _______________ [go.gif]


   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory Home Page

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   Click for our plan for the future Click for our mission and vision
   Click to learn more about the INEEL [shim.gif]

   Major Programs
   Science Programs at the INEEL


   The INEEL supports DOE's research and science activities - Fueling the
   Future, Protecting Our Living Planet, Exploring Matter and Energy, and
   Extraordinary Tools for Extraordinary Science. Notable expanded areas
   of science emphasis in FY 2001 provide the INEEL with the opportunity
   to use its existing and emerging scientific expertise in support of DOE
   and include the following: Nanoscale science, advanced scientific
   computing, bioengineering sciences, microbial cell research, climate
   change technology research, university-based research in robotics and
   intelligent machines.

   A centerpiece of the INEEL's R&D and operations integration theme is
   the Subsurface Science Initiative, the major science initiative of the
   laboratory. This initiative has as its primary driver DOE's need to
   execute its Environmental Management cleanup and long-term stewardship
   missions at the INEEL as well as the rest of the DOE complex. In
   addition, an analysis of the Research Challenges and Opportunities
   sections of the DOE "Science R&D Portfolio" (February 2000) indicates
   that the Subsurface Science Initiative is (and will be) supportive of
   the four themes of the Office of Science.

   The Environmental Systems Research and Analysis program sponsors core
   and problem-driven directed research that focuses on DOE Environmental
   Management technical needs, and paradigm shifting approaches to dealing
   with DOE complex-wide environmental remediation, and long-term
   stewardship issues. This program was initiated at a limited scale in FY
   1997 and fully implemented in FY 1998. The program (funded through the
   DOE EM Office of Science and Technology) consists of a number of
   activities that support EM and the role of the INEEL as the EM Lead
   Laboratory. The activities are divided into two categories: (1)
   environmental R&D with components addressing both core- and
   problem-driven research needs and (2) roadmapping and complexwide
   integration/planning.
   The INEEL supports multiple programs under the Office of Science
   umbrella, ranging from fusion safety to biologically enhanced
   decontamination. The diversity of talent required to do this work has
   enabled the INEEL to effectively respond to United States industrial
   needs.

   Fusion Safety. The INEEL is the lead laboratory in the Fusion Safety
   area. The research conducted is aimed at resolving critical safety
   issues for near-term fusion test facilities, such as the International
   Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER).

   Boron Neutron Capture Therapy Program. INEEL's Nuclear Physics work
   ranges from high-quality evaluation of radionuclides for the
   international community to Advanced Medical Therapy Research. The INEEL
   has had a long-standing historical interest in the development of
   Neutron capture therapy (NCT). The INEEL, in collaboration with
   Brookhaven National Laboratories (BNL), is conducting a clinical trial
   using NCT with boron as the neutron capture agent (BNCT) to treat
   glioblastoma multiforme, a highly malignant primary brain tumor. The
   INEEL is also working with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
   (MIT) to use BNCT as a treatment for brain tumors and malignant
   melanoma.

   Radioecology Program. Environmental research is also conducted at the
   INEEL covering a wide spectrum of activities from microbial activity in
   contaminated subsurface environments to the effects of global warming
   and pollution as a part of DOE's Radioecology program. The INEEL
   applies biotechnology to reduce energy usage and the environmental
   impacts of industrial processes. Examples include remediating
   hydrocarbon vapors from leaking fuel tanks, reducing the sulfur
   compounds and heavy hydrocarbon vapors associated with asphalt
   processing and control of nitrogen oxide compounds, and reducing
   volatile organics released by wood drying.

   Current INEEL science research projects and capabilities directly
   support the goals and objectives identified in the DOE Strategic Plan.
   Linkages are shown in the table below:

                   INEEL linkages to DOE science programs
   DOE Objective 1 - Fuel the future with science for clean and affordable
                                   energy
   INEEL Science Programs: Engineering Research Program Elastic, Plastic
        Fracture Mechanics Research, Thermal-Plasma Process Modeling

         DOE Objective 2 - Protect our living planet with scientific
        understanding of energy impacts on people and the bioshpere.
   INEEL Science Programs: Subsurface Science Initiative, Hydropower
       Program, Fractured Rock Science Team, Teton-Yellowstone Project
             (Mapping Initiative), Global Climate Change Project

                             DOE Objective 3 -
   INEEL Science Programs: Materials science Program, Chemical Sciences
      Program, Metallurgy Microstructural Research, Surface Ionization
     Analysis Techniques, Composite Materials, Microstructureal Research

     DOE Objective 4 - Provide the extraordinary tools, scientific work
      force, and infrastructure that ensure national leadership in the
          physical, biological, and computational sciences, and in
                        multidisciplinary research.
      INEEL Science Programs: Boron Neutron Capture Therapy, Scientific
   Computing Systems, Environmental Systems Research and Analysis (ESRA),
   EM Science Program, Site-Specific Technologies for Agriculture (EERE),
                   INEEL Robotic and Intelligent Machines.

   INEEL's
   Environment and Technology Engineering and Environmental and Energy
   Science divisions execute and manage many of these programs.

   Page contact: Deborah Hill, dahill@inel.gov.

   [pixel.gif] [pixel_blk.gif]
   [pixel.gif] [pixel_grn.gif]
   Updated: Friday, December 14, 2001
   For general inquiries about the INEEL, please call 1-800-708-2680.
   © 2002 Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC. All rights reserved.
   Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC is an EEO/AA employer.
   Feedback
   The INEEL is operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   Click to visit DOE's website.
