http://www.mocbhe.gov/Acadafrs/k16fd.htm

   If you do not have JavaScript enabled or are using an older browser you
   will not be able to view our page correctly. Please proceed to our Text
   Only Version.

   Higher Education Seal jpg Missouri Department of Higher Education gif
   banner gif
   About Us | Calendar | Employment  | Text Only  |  Contact Us | MO State
   Page
   Home | Help Desk/FAQ | Life Sciences in Higher Education

   dividing_line

                            Report on Mathematics
                                 in Missouri

                                   by the
                           Missouri K-16 Coalition
                              October 26, 1999
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  Preamble

   In December 1997, three of Missouris key educational boards, the State
   Board of Education, the Coordinating Board for Higher Education, and
   the University of Missouri Board of Curators, created a historic
   partnership among business, education, and political leaders. Known as
   the Missouri K-16 Coalition and composed of prominent Missourians
   committed to quality education at all levels, the partnership signifies
   an exceptional and necessary mode of cooperation among Missouris
   education policymakers. Since its formation, the Coalition has focused
   its discussions on ways to bring about a more coordinated system of
   education and raise the performance levels of all Missouri students.

   Missouris K-16 initiative, along with similar K-16 initiatives in
   several other states, has emerged as an effort to raise performance
   standards for all students and to improve the alignment of curriculum
   between K-12 and higher education. K-16 work acknowledges the reality
   that students proceed at different paces through the educational system
   and have different career or life objectives. K-16 efforts have
   emphasized the need for high school and college collaboration,
   encouraging improved connectivity and alignment between the two levels,
   which will allow students to advance through the system in a more
   integrated and efficient way.

   Focusing initially on grades 11 and 12 and the first two years of
   higher education, the Coalition has concentrated on ways to increase
   Missouri students' success in mathematics. The Coalition was charged by
   its sponsoring boards with:
     * promoting quality performance standards that reduce the need for
       remediation,
     * encouraging faculty agreements on content and expectations in the
       major disciplines, beginning with mathematics,
     * increasing public awareness of the importance of improved student
       performance,
     * supporting full articulation within and across educational sectors,
     * identifying strategies for enhanced student performance based upon
       preparation and ability, and
     * developing policy recommendations to be shared with the
       Coordinating Board for Higher Education, the State Board of
       Education, and the UM Board of Curators.

   The Coalition reviewed a number of research documents and technical
   reports. This information provided a comprehensive background regarding
   a range of issues, including the importance of mathematics, the
   performance of U.S. and Missouri students, and the relationship of
   mathematics performance to individual productivity and economic
   viability.

   This report reflects a sense of urgency about the tasks yet ahead as
   well as a sincere appreciation for what Missouri's high schools and
   colleges have already accomplished to improve achievement levels. The
   issues identified are not aligned with those of a particular group of
   stakeholders; they are public issues that cut across the educational
   system. The problems are systemic and relate to diverse elements, e.g.,
   parental attitudes toward the importance of rigorous mathematics
   curricula, the preparation of K-16 faculty as colleagues who
   effectively participate in teaching and learning, the funding of school
   districts, and the selection of textbooks.

   The Coalition was assisted and supported in its work by several staff
   members from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, the
   Department of Higher Education, and the University of Missouri system.
   In addition, the Coalition established a Mathematics Technical Advisory
   Committee (MTAC). The chair of the Missouri K-16 Coalition (a
   mathematician) also chaired MTAC. MTAC included faculty representatives
   from several of Missouris two- and four-year colleges and universities
   as well as teachers from the K-12 mathematics community. Throughout its
   deliberations, MTAC had significant contact with standing professional
   groups in mathematics, e.g., the Mathematics Association of America,
   the Missouri Mathematics Association for Two-year Colleges, and the
   National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

   The conclusions and specific recommendations contained in this report
   reflect what the Coalition believes to be necessary to reach critical
   objectives for Missouri. What students need to learn and how to equip
   novice and veteran teachers at all levels to facilitate new standards
   are major concerns. More direct collaboration within and between K-12
   and higher education is identified as a key strategy. Finally, the
   report addresses the need for a comprehensive and sustained public
   information effort to support the systemic change. Listed in Appendix I
   are the official charge to the Coalition by the three boards and the
   list of Coalition members. Appendix II contains a list of resources
   considered by the Coalition over the past 21 months, while Appendix III
   provides a list of supplemental resources.

   In its recommendations, the Coalition identifies important actions for
   all Missouri's citizens that will result in increasing student
   expectations and improving achievement in mathematics. The vision
   includes all students reaching their potential through cooperation,
   reinforcement, dedication, and hard work.

                                Introduction

   Many people have a limited understanding of the fundamental nature of
   mathematics. Mathematics is not simply the calculation of numbers or
   the manipulation of abstract symbols. Mathematical thinking is key to
   being able to analyze and solve problems of all kinds. When the
   essentials of many problems are abstracted into a mathematical
   framework, solutions become more apparent. Mathematics helps students
   develop critical-thinking skills. Indeed, it is the essence of
   mathematics to think logically, to be able to draw sound conclusions,
   and to understand relationships and causalities. Those who have strong
   backgrounds in mathematics are able to think more clearly and
   critically about all aspects of life and develop skills that are useful
   in almost all occupations. Mathematics is especially crucial for
   participation in technologically advancing societies. Reflective of
   this reality, the Missouri Assessment Program (MAP), the statewide
   testing program in Missouri schools under the authority of the State
   Board of Education (SBE), began its assessment of Missouris high school
   students by examining their mathematics skills. In so doing, the SBE
   has underscored the importance of monitoring the mathematics
   performance of Missouri students.

   Missouris work in raising expectations for all students and
   accelerating improvement in mathematics education is centrally
   important to the states economic future. Because the nature of the
   workforce is continuously changing and becoming more technologically
   sophisticated, mathematics has a direct impact on Missouri's economic
   future and the well-being of its people. Instead of standing at
   assembly lines, workers now rely on technical competence to manage
   complex machinery and to solve complex technical problems. Mathematics
   is important to Missouris economic future because business and industry
   look for an educated workforce when deciding upon communities in which
   to locate. An increased reliance on advanced technology in the
   workplace suggests that individuals without sound competence in
   mathematics will be denied economic opportunities and that the states
   economic security will be inherently linked to the mathematical skills
   of Missouri's citizenry.

   Because mathematics is a cumulative discipline involving all levels of
   formal education, it is a compelling focus of K-16 work. The basics of
   mathematics must be learned well because it forms the foundation for
   more advanced study. That is why it is essential that curricula in the
   early grades adequately prepare students for later work in mathematics,
   why it is important to correct students deficiencies in mathematics
   before it is too late, why it is important that students and parents
   make wise choices about the kinds of mathematics courses to be taken,
   and why it is important that the college-level curriculum be sensitive
   to the experiences that students bring with them. In fact, there is
   good evidence that adequate preparation in mathematics is the single
   best predictor of college completion.

   For all these reasons, the Coalition believes it is vital that
   Missourians share a sense of urgency about accelerating progress in
   mathematics and raising mathematics standards even higher not just at
   the K-12 level but at the college level as well. At the same time,
   there are many other areas in which work across grades K-16 is
   essential. Missouris education boards should continue to establish
   structures that will improve academic performance in areas other than
   mathematics, e.g., reading, writing, science, and history. The
   Coalition believes that many of the principles and policy
   recommendations growing out of its work in mathematics will apply to
   these other fields as well.

                              Student Learning

   The need to accelerate the rate of improvement

   During the 1995-96 academic year, the Department of Elementary and
   Secondary Education (DESE) established high standards for mathematics
   achievement of Missouri students. Such high standards in mathematics
   are critical because of the increasingly vital role that mathematics
   plays in effective decision-making and economic success. While Missouri
   has begun foundational work to improve student performance in
   mathematics, as a state, Missouri still has much to do to meet these
   high standards. Every Missourian has a role to play in this effort.

   Because Missouris statewide standards in mathematics are less than five
   years old, the curricular changes needed to reach those standards are
   just now being put in place in most districts across the state.
   Nevertheless, there is evidence that the achievement level of Missouri
   students has improved in the last five years. Missouri is on the right
   track but there is a need to accelerate the progress. Since other
   nations are strengthening their standards and improving the achievement
   of their students, we are aiming at a moving target. Competition for
   economic strength does not come from institutions within the state or
   between neighboring school districts; instead, it comes from nations
   around the world that are taking technical education seriously and
   recognizing the increasing need for mathematics in a technological
   world. As Will Rogers once said, "Even if youre on the right track,
   youll get run over if you just sit there."

   Missouri's public colleges and universities produce fewer than the
   national average number of mathematics degrees (as a percentage of
   total degrees). This fact, coupled with the high number of students
   taking remedial courses in mathematics in colleges and universities,
   means that higher education also has an important role in addressing
   this problem.

   As the Missouri K-16 Coalition stated in September 1998, "Evidence from
   multiple sources demonstrates that the achievement level of Missouri
   students in mathematics is not acceptable for todays technological
   society." There is clear evidence that at all educational levels,
   Missouri students are not achieving at sufficient levels in mathematics
   to ensure either their own future success or the states economic
   well-being. For instance:
     * Results on the worldwide Third International Mathematics and
       Science Survey put Missouri 8th graders' performance at the
       national average in science and mathematics; yet the U.S. national
       average is significantly below those of other leading nations in
       the world.
     * On the recent statewide 10th grade test in mathematics, only 10
       percent of Missouri students scored at a level considered
       "proficient" by state standards.
     * Missouri colleges and universities have only minimal expectations
       for mathematics proficiency for students graduating with associate
       and baccalaureate degrees.
     * Missouri colleges and universities award a lower percentage of
       degrees in mathematics-related technical fields than the national
       average.
     * The average ACT subscale in mathematics for students entering
       Missouri colleges and universities is 21.0. Although this composite
       score is slightly above the national average, it is the lowest of
       the subject areas tested.
     * In 1996, 26 percent (4,628) of high school graduates enrolled in
       Missouri's public colleges and universities were enrolled in
       remedial courses, and of that number, 71.4 percent (3,304) were
       enrolled in remedial mathematics courses.
     * Missouri business leaders testify to the lack of sufficient
       personnel with adequate technical training to fill the needs of a
       high-tech economy.

   Successful transitions from K-12 through college

   Creating a seamless system of education means reducing barriers. The
   Coalition believes that the ability to reduce barriers depends on
   having better information about where problems occur in the
   K-12-to-college transition. Thus, the Coalition began its work by
   assessing the academic performance and progress of students through the
   educational system, with particular emphasis on grades 11 and 12 and
   the first two years of college. While Missouri has a student-specific
   database that is useful to monitor the transition from Missouri high
   schools to the state's public colleges and universities, this database
   includes neither course-level data nor a full range of assessment.
   These data elements are necessary for an extensive examination of
   relationships between course-taking patterns, placement data, and
   student performance. As a consequence, a special study was commissioned
   to determine the success of students in collegiate mathematics courses
   as a function of their high school preparation, MAP mathematics test
   scores, and scores on admissions tests. The results of that study are
   still being analyzed. Continued commitment is needed to ensure that
   data across K-16 is available for analysis.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that the three sponsoring
     boards work cooperatively to improve available information about
     Missouri education by:
     * using common data definitions,
     * linking their separate databases, and
     * developing a common research agenda that can inform future K-16
       policy decisions.

   The Coalition also suggests that each board appoint a liaison staff
   person to work jointly on this recommendation, and it requested a brief
   progress report. Representatives from each board indicate that initial
   discussions have taken place regarding how best to institutionalize a
   reporting system that would permit an ongoing analysis to inform K-16
   discussions. The proposed system would build on existing
   data-collection processes by appending selected state and national
   assessment results and placement data to allow for ongoing analyses of
   students performance and progress. A remaining challenge to this effort
   is the need for course-specific information and information on
   students' academic performance in mathematics courses taken both in
   high school and college. Another challenge involves the limitation of
   the existing data systems, which only include the states public
   institutions. Staff from the three boards will continue to collaborate
   on developing a data-collection system that is responsive to the
   Coalitions recommendations.

   Throughout its work, the Coalition has acknowledged the invaluable
   contributions of the Mathematics Technical Advisory Committee (MTAC).
   It is through MTAC that the voice of faculty has been heard. The
   faculty perspective is essential, especially in the development of
   state-level policy related to curriculum issues. Without faculty
   involvement and support, policies involving teaching and learning will
   have limited impact. Therefore, the Coalition supports the
   establishment of an ongoing advisory committee of mathematicians.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that the three sponsoring
     boards establish a standing mathematics technical advisory
     committee. Such a committee should include representatives of the
     relevant professional societies in Missouri, both two-year and
     four-year colleges and universities, and mathematics teachers and
     administrators from K-12 education. This group should be charged
     with maintaining cross-sector discussions about mathematics and
     advising the relevant boards about issues in mathematics. In
     particular, such a group should comprehensively review the
     mathematics curriculum and associated assessments in the four years
     from the third year of high school through the first two years of
     college.

   Raising expectations for all

   Parents, students, school boards, business leaders, political leaders,
   and educational leaders must understand that the ability to function in
   a mathematically sophisticated and technologically rich environment is
   crucial. While many people clearly recognize the importance of
   mathematics, a low regard for mathematics is still common. For example,
   one Missouri college administrator reports that the most common
   question she hears from parents is, "Why does my child have to take
   mathematics at your college when everyone has a calculator?" This
   understanding of mathematics as calculation, unaccompanied by the
   realization that mathematics is the key to modeling the world,
   analyzing natural and social phenomena, and solving problems in all
   sorts of fields, is a severe barrier to achievement. It works against
   achievement for students to be surrounded by a climate of fear and lack
   of understanding about the power, importance, and beauty of
   mathematics. MTAC's recommendation that more algebraic thinking be
   incorporated earlier in a student's educational experience is
   responsive to these attitudes and is reflected in recommendations for
   proposed legislation and professional development activities.

   The Coalition believes that it is critical that all students have
   adequate mathematical skills; that all teachers at the elementary level
   be comfortable with, and be able to convey, essential mathematical
   concepts and be able to stimulate mathematical interest; and that
   mathematics achievement is essential preparation for all postsecondary
   choices, whether in the workforce or in further educational experience.
   It is also important for all business and industry leaders and all
   involved in education-related decision-making to help raise awareness
   of the need for higher mathematics achievement by Missouri students. It
   is important for all parents to understand that the world has changed,
   that failing to demand and take challenging mathematics courses closes
   doors to many options, and that any anxieties they may have about
   mathematics must not stand in the way of the acquisition of
   mathematical competence by their children. In meeting these challenges,
   the Coalition acknowledges the significance of a major information
   campaign on the importance of mathematics.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends a comprehensive and
     sustained public information campaign to raise the awareness of the
     general public, business leaders, educators, and political leaders
     about issues surrounding mathematics education.

   The existing MAP testing program, developed and administered by the
   State Board of Education, represents an important beginning for raising
   the achievement levels of Missouri students. Future editions of this
   test should focus even more on mathematical concepts and understanding.
   Moreover, expectations for mathematical skills should be gradually
   raised. Though testing will not, in and of itself, produce higher
   achievement any more than more frequent weighings of a pig will ensure
   that it gains more weight, appropriate diagnostic information should be
   available to schools so that deficiencies in curriculum or in teacher
   preparation can be corrected.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that K-12 schools and
     higher education institutions use the summary diagnostic information
     concerning test results supplied by the Department of Elementary and
     Secondary Education to identify curricular and other issues in need
     of attention. This diagnostic information, together with other
     information available to the schools, should be used to help
     individual students in determining any areas of weakness in
     mathematics and in providing remediation to help them overcome those
     deficiencies. Because of the cumulative nature of mathematics, it is
     also important for parents to know where their childrens
     deficiencies are so they can ensure that their children receive
     appropriate help.

   The Coalition applauds the Missouri General Assembly and Governor Mel
   Carnahan for the provision of House Bill 889 (1999), which now provides
   incentives to school districts to offer instruction outside the
   traditional school day to students who fail to meet established local
   academic standards.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that the State Board of
     Education, leaders in the Missouri General Assembly, and the
     governors office continue to seek ways in which the results of
     increasingly demanding tests in mathematics can be translated more
     directly into school improvement and the provision of individual
     remediation.

   While Missouris governor and legislature have led the way in stressing
   the importance of high standards and in developing accountability
   mechanisms by which to measure progress, there is still more that can
   and should be done. Building on MTAC's recommendation to move algebraic
   thinking into the early grades, the Coalition supports initiating
   legislation that will encourage local districts to achieve this goal.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that the Missouri General
     Assembly adopt legislation explicitly identifying the states
     interest in raising mathematics achievement levels. Such legislation
     should establish a grant program through the State Board of
     Education to help integrate algebraic thinking into elementary,
     middle, and junior high school classes. The Coalition believes this
     could have a significant impact on mathematics achievement at all
     levels in the state of Missouri in years to come.

   The Coalition also is concerned about expectations for mathematics in
   higher education. A survey of Missouri colleges and universities about
   the assessment of students' mathematics performance in general
   education is underway. Other concerns include the relatively low
   numbers of majors in technical fields being produced by Missouri
   colleges and universities and about the critical need in Missouri for
   K-12 teachers of mathematics.

     Recommendation: The Coalition recommends that the Coordinating Board
     for Higher Education and the University of Missouri Board of
     Curators work with the standing mathematics technical advisory
     committee of faculty in taking steps to raise the expected levels of
     mathematics achievement for all college students. These steps may
     include using the CBHEs budgetary Funding for Results program to
     provide financial incentives for improved mathematics performance.
     More powerful financial incentives, perhaps in the form of student
     scholarships or approaches like the Advantage Missouri Program,
     should be considered by the CBHE through its budgetary processes.

   In all such steps that they might consider, the Coalition recommends
   that the CBHE work closely with college and university presidents to
   ensure that incentives do not simultaneously produce unintended
   negative consequences.

                       Teacher Preparation and Support

   The Missouri K-16 Coalition has deliberated about how to promote
   exemplary initial preparation for new teachers as well as how to help
   good Missouri teachers become even more effective facilitators of
   student learning. Ample research confirms that teacher quality is a
   major determinant of student achievement. While there is a myriad of
   factors related to student achievement, such as family socioeconomic
   status, parental involvement in setting expectations, funding of
   schools, class size, and textbook quality, almost none of these
   directly influences student performance as much as the quality of
   teaching.

   A key component in the overall development of effective educators is
   the groundwork laid by Missouri higher education institutions in
   preparing elementary and secondary teachers. The preparation of
   teachers is often not seen as the responsibility of an entire
   institution but, instead, solely as the duty of the school, college, or
   department of education. While pedagogical training and extensive field
   experiences in real classrooms are vital to teacher preparation, basic
   content is equally important. Core subjects are taught in arts and
   sciences departments. Such departments and their administrators,
   however, do not always feel as connected with the important task of
   preparing teachers as they should. Preparation of teachers should be
   well grounded in disciplinary content knowledge as well as in sound
   pedagogical principles. Colleges and universities need to take
   seriously their commitment to the initial preparation of, and
   continuing professional development for, teachers. That commitment
   needs to be shared by colleges of arts and sciences (for disciplinary
   content) and colleges of education. DESE's Missouri Standards for
   Teacher Education Programs (MoSTEP) reinforce the importance of this
   integration.

   The Coalition commends the State Board of Education for the preparation
   of the Missouri Teacher Preparation Institution Profiles, the nations
   first "consumer's guide" to teacher preparation programs. This guide
   pulls together a number of indicators about teacher preparation
   programs, including such things as test scores of graduates on the
   National Teachers Exam, an examination required for prospective
   teachers in each discipline area.

   MTAC is working with Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
   to examine possible improvements in the certification standards for
   Missouri teachers. The Coalition applauds the State Board of Education
   for insisting that the performance of prospective teachers in Missouri
   must be at or above the national average on the Praxis II Examination.
   The devices used to measure teacher performance, however, must be rich
   enough to provide sound assurance of teacher quality. In particular,
   some currently used tests of content knowledge may not provide a
   sufficient examination of mathematics ability to ensure that elementary
   teachers are able to get students adequately started in mathematics.
   Test results can be problematic if future elementary school teachers
   are able to meet minimum standards without demonstration of sufficient
   content knowledge in mathematics. A new examination now under
   development by the Educational Testing Service (ETS), as well as
   changes in Missouris passing standards, may help this situation.

     Recommendations:
     * The CBHE should find new ways for all Missouri colleges and
       universities that prepare teachers to engage their entire
       institutions in teacher preparation. In particular, the CBHE should
       provide incentives and encouragement for the active participation
       of arts and sciences departments in the design and implementation
       of teacher preparation programs.
     * The CBHE should encourage the presidents and chancellors of
       Missouri colleges and universities that prepare teachers to give
       appropriately high priority to teacher education as an important
       part of their institutional missions.
     * Along with arts and sciences and education faculty from colleges
       and universities, master K-12 mathematics teachers should be
       involved in the initial preparation of new teachers and
       professional development of current teachers.
     * The CBHE should find ways to "encourage" colleges and universities
       to take the partnership between arts and sciences faculty and
       colleges of education faculty seriously, in accord with the
       Excellence in Education Act.
     * The Coalition encourages the CBHE to ensure that presidents and
       chancellors of colleges and universities are aware of the Missouri
       Teacher Preparation Institution Profiles and become personally
       involved in correcting any deficiencies in the institutional
       programs that this guide may suggest.
     * There is an important role for the CBHE in the review of existing
       teacher education programs in postsecondary institutions. The
       Coalition recommends that the State Board of Education and the
       Coordinating Board for Higher Education pursue this possibility.
     * Because it is vital to have teachers at the elementary and
       secondary levels who are both competent in, and comfortable with,
       mathematics, the Coalition encourages DESE and the standing
       mathematics technical advisory committee of faculty to continue
       working comprehensively on the assessment of prospective teachers.

                          Professional Development

   As with testing of students, the testing of new teachers alone is not
   enough; we must also help veteran teachers. Available evidence
   indicates that at least half of the teachers currently teaching
   mathematics in Missouri elementary and secondary public schools have
   never had any continuing education in mathematics. In light of the new
   standards in mathematics and subsequent changes in textbooks and other
   curricular materials, continuing education (usually called
   "professional development") is vital. It is not realistic to expect
   teachers who underwent initial preparation several years agoand who
   were perhaps not always well prepared in mathematicsto be able to help
   students effectively learn new material.

   MTAC conducted regional hearings at the nine Regional Professional
   Development Centers around the state, to which both high school and
   collegiate mathematics faculty were invited. Through MTAC, discussions
   have begun around the state about competencies needed in mathematics at
   various grade levels and how we can make what is expected at the end of
   one educational experience match what is assumed at the beginning of
   the next educational experience.

   As referenced earlier in this report, MTAC believes that it is
   important to focus efforts on strengthening middle school (grades 5-8)
   mathematics by helping teachers move from an understanding of
   mathematics as calculation to incorporating higher-order mathematical
   reasoning that will introduce algebraic thinking. Much evidence from
   international test results indicates that one of the major problems
   with mathematics in America is that algebraic thinking is introduced
   too late in the curriculum to enable students to progress in
   mathematics as rapidly as students in many other countries. MTAC
   believes that professional development for teachers, together with
   suggestions about textbooks and other curricular materials that are
   more appropriate for middle school mathematics, can significantly
   improve the mathematical preparation of students in grades 5-8.

   The Coalition applauds DESE for its allocation of approximately
   $500,000 in SB380 funds for mathematics. The Coalition is pleased to
   note that a new three-year program of professional development in
   mathematics, designed to be instituted in the schools and supported by
   a major grant of SB380 funds, has been developed by DESE. The program
   is designed to begin with intensive training sessions at each of the
   RPDCs around the state, beginning with 44 school and district teams.
   Each team will be responsible for developing a three-year program of
   mathematics professional development that will be tied to school
   improvement plans and focus on student achievement as the desired
   outcome.

   In a parallel move, the CBHE recently redirected a higher proportion of
   federal funds for professional development in the area of mathematics.
   The portion of the Eisenhower Professional Development Program
   administered by the CBHE provides money for the improvement of K-12
   mathematics and science teaching. In addition, continuous improvement
   of teaching and learning is a major focus of the CBHE's Funding for
   Results program.

   Though relevant to effective education generally, it appears that much
   professional development activity is directed to areas of school
   concern that are not directly related to disciplinary content. In
   addition, effective professional development must not be an isolated
   activity; it must relate to, and be supportive of, overall improvement
   efforts that are underway within educational environments. School
   boards, in particular, can play a vital role in professional
   development. They can help administrators and teachers understand the
   need for strong mathematical teaching and learning. Furthermore, they
   can hold administrators accountable for providing effective
   professional development opportunities and teachers accountable for
   participating in them. As elected community leaders, they play a
   pivotal role in helping parents understand the key role that
   challenging mathematics plays as part of their districts K-12 programs.

     Recommendations:
     * Middle school mathematics teachers should be provided with ongoing
       professional development that will help them move from teaching
       mathematics as "calculation" to incorporating more higher-order
       mathematical reasoning and algebraic thinking into the classroom.
     * The Coalition suggests that the Department of Elementary and
       Secondary Education reexamine its publication Missouri Professional
       Development Guidelines for Student Success. These suggestions to
       school professional development committees should appropriately
       stress the need for disciplinary content in professional
       development.
     * The Coalition recommends that SBE and CBHE look carefully at how
       much of their respective professional development expenditures are
       being spent to enhance content knowledge in basic subjects and,
       equally important, what accountability there is for the results
       from these expenditures.
     * The progress and outcomes of the new three-year program of
       professional development in mathematics developed by DESE and
       supported by SB380 funds should be carefully followed. Assuming
       good results, this approach should become a permanent feature in
       Missouri's professional development program.
     * Exemplary professional development programs for content, pedagogy,
       and/or technology improvement should be identified by the SBE and
       the CBHE and recognized publicly.
     * Professional development should be seen by local school boards as a
       collaborative activity between administrators and teachers, well
       integrated into the structure of the school, high on the agenda of
       both the leadership of the school and the teachers, and closely
       related to school improvement and student achievement.
     * Local school boards should target their available professional
       development dollars for critical needs of the district. The
       Coalition believes that, in most cases, these include mathematics.
     * In order to encourage more collaboration between K-12 and higher
       education faculty, the Coalition recommends to the SBE, the CBHE,
       the University of Missouri Board of Curators and other institutions
       involved in teacher education that community college faculty and
       faculty from four-year institutions' colleges of education and
       colleges of arts and sciences be encouraged to participate in
       professional development activities provided for K-12 faculty,
       where appropriate. In addition, colleges and universities
       professional development activities should include participation by
       K-12 faculty.

              Regional Professional Development Centers (RPDCs)

   Professional development of K-12 educators involves many stakeholders
   and significant federal, state, and local resources. Additional funds
   are dedicated to the professional development of higher education
   faculty. These significant resources require careful stewardship and
   effective accountability as identified in DESE's MoSTEP. Missouri has
   an elaborate system of professional development, established by state
   law, some of which operates through nine Regional Professional
   Development Centers (RPDCs) which are located on the campuses of the
   University of Missouri, and Truman State University, Northwest Missouri
   State University, Central Missouri State University, Southeast Missouri
   State University, and Southwest Missouri State University.

   In local districts, professional development is largely determined by
   each schools professional development committee, as mandated by
   Missouri law. These committees set up professional development programs
   for their schools and arrange for professional development experiences
   to meet their goals. Some of these experiences occur through RPDCs. The
   professional development plans are to relate to, and support, the local
   school's total School Improvement Plana very desirable linkage. The
   Department of Elementary and Secondary Education provides guidelines
   for professional development, but it does not control the choices made
   by local schools.

   Each RPDC is challenged to promote collaboration among existing
   programs, service providers, and local schools; to provide focus on key
   factors that will demonstrably improve student learning; and to share
   information on the impact of particular strategies and initiatives. The
   RPDCs, although only accounting for perhaps 20 percent of professional
   development in Missouri, represent convenient vehicles for helping
   achieve Missouris goals for professional development.

   The Missouri K-16 Coalition is eager to strengthen the RPDCs' role in
   mathematics professional development and to enable them to help
   districts improve student performance more effectively. Training and
   continued professional development throughout Missouris entire
   educational system should be a priority, and the Coalition supports the
   further strengthening of the nine Regional Professional Development
   Centers as a part of that priority. Local school districts should also
   give high priority to professional development. To advance progress
   toward these goals, the Coalition adopted the following specific
   recommendations related to RPDCs. Although the Coalitions initial focus
   is on mathematics, these recommendations are independent of discipline.

     Recommendations:
     * Each RPDC should be structured so that it operates as a long-term
       and integral part of the host institution, working closely with all
       units and faculty throughout the campus, but especially with arts
       and sciences and education faculty. In particular, appointment of
       the director and selection procedures for membership on the
       advisory committee of each RPDC should be mutually agreed to by the
       SBE and the president/chancellor of each host institution.
     * Each RPDC director should have access to, and the support of, the
       senior administrative team of the host institution. In addition,
       the RPDC should be accountable to the host institution and to the
       SBE.
     * RPDC activities must include strong disciplinary content and must
       focus on the improved performance of students. Faculty from across
       K-16 must participate both as deliverers and receivers of services.
     * The CBHE and SBE should work with presidents and chancellors of
       colleges and universities to ensure that they understand the role
       of the RPDC and that they will see that each RPDC has available
       content expertise, particularly in mathematics, to support its
       important work in professional development.
     * Each RPDC should have a clear vision and clearly defined
       performance goals that can be evaluated by measurable outcomes,
       including success in leveraging resources and focusing existing
       programs on both state and regional priorities; effectiveness in
       promoting collaboration among arts and sciences departments,
       education, local schools, and other service providers; increased
       teacher satisfaction; and improved student performance.

   The ultimate success of the Missouri K-16 Coalitions recommendations
   for improving mathematics performance clearly depends on the quality
   and commitment of the states teachers. Across all levels of the K-16
   educational enterprise, faculty must be provided with both initial and
   ongoing opportunities to improve their knowledge of mathematics and to
   expand their skills in effective approaches to mathematics instruction.

                   Conclusions: Summary and Implementation

   Missouri cannot be competitive in a global economy without having a
   stronger base of men and women well-trained in technical,
   mathematics-related fields. Higher achievement in mathematics is
   essential for both the future economic well being of Missouri students
   as well as the economic well being of this state. The Missouri K-16
   Coalition has reviewed data and developed recommendations that it
   believes will make a difference in the mathematics achievement of
   Missouri students in the years to come. These include raising
   expectations (with particular focus on middle school and higher
   education) both in mathematical training of students and particularly
   in the preparation of teachers; strengthening initial teacher education
   programs and making major improvements in professional development
   opportunities and in the use of those opportunities in school
   districts; utilizing school settings for professional development
   activities; providing incentives and legislation to bring about desired
   results; recruiting potential teachers, retaining and retraining
   existing teachers, and increasing public awareness of the importance of
   mathematics for students at all levels. Collectively, these
   recommendations focus on making the educational experience seamless
   from kindergarten through four years of college.

   There is something important for everybody to do. The Coalition
   believes that if everyone gets involved, we can truly make a
   difference. Advice to each stakeholder group follows.

   Advice for Students and Parents
     * At an early age students should understand that mathematics and
       mathematical thinking is crucial in creating lifetime opportunities
       for success in any discipline of their choosing. Success in this
       technologically sophisticated society requires individuals who have
       taken more advanced and challenging mathematics courses throughout
       their school years.
     * Mathematics is an especially important discipline because it serves
       as the foundation for a students future education and career
       options. Parents should encourage students to pursue a challenging
       math curriculum during middle school and high school so that they
       are well-prepared for the future regardless of their career and
       educational goals.
     * Parents must help set high expectations for their children and not
       let them be intimidated by mathematics. Parents should be careful
       not to "pass on" negative attitudes, experiences, or anxieties
       about mathematics to their children.
     * Parents can help ensure that students succeed by encouraging
       children to take algebra before the ninth grade, if possible, and
       to continue to study mathematics throughout high school and
       college.

   Advice for Business and Industry
     * Business leaders and employers should work with school districts
       and institutions of higher education to raise expectations for
       student performance in mathematics.
     * Business leaders in every sector should work with local educators,
       visit schools, and talk with students, parents, and teachers about
       the importance of mathematics and its specific applications in
       business and industry.
     * Business leaders should communicate with school counselors,
       students, and their parents on a regular basis about the academic
       skill requirements necessary for entry-level positions in the
       workforce.

   Advice for K-12 Schools
     * The mathematics curriculum in K-12 schools should be structured to
       provide organized and systematic progression across levels.
       Elementary-level programs must include foundation for work at the
       middle level. Similarly, middle school programs need to incorporate
       the knowledge and skills, particularly algebraic thinking, that are
       necessary for high school classes. High school mathematics should
       prepare students for postsecondary education or career choices.
       Teachers and school officials must emphasize high frameworks for
       all students, creating a challenging curriculum that places an
       earlier emphasis on learning algebraic and geometric concepts and
       problem-solving applications.
     * The Missouri Assessment Program must be aligned with the new
       curriculum expectations. In this way, school boards, school
       administrators, and faculty can use data from state assessments and
       other sources to analyze students performance in mathematics and to
       focus resources on identified weaknesses at district, school,
       classroom, and individual levels.
     * Local school boards and school personnel should focus professional
       development efforts for their faculty on strengthening their
       knowledge of mathematics as well as effective mathematics
       instructional approaches at all levels and preparing all students
       to meet the proficiency goals of the Missouri Assessment Program.
     * School boards, school administrators, and faculty should use data
       from state assessments and other sources to analyze student
       performance in mathematics and accordingly focus their efforts for
       student improvement.

   Advice for Colleges and Universities
     * Colleges and universities should be sensitive to the role that
       faculty play in the preparation of teachers thereby making the
       development of Missouris future teaching workforce a total
       institutional responsibility.
     * Presidents and chancellors of colleges and universities have a key
       role to play in emphasizing the importance of and redesigning
       support systems for teaching as a profession.
     * Data provided by the CBHE and SBE should be used to evaluate
       systematically the effectiveness of teacher education programs.
     * Presidents and chancellors of colleges and universities should
       become more actively involved with the SBE to ensure strong
       leadership in the appointment of RPDC directors and advisory
       committees.
     * Colleges and universities should work closely with K-12 colleagues
       in the design and delivery of professional development programs
       targeting the improvement of teaching and learning at all levels.
     * Colleges and universities should review their general education
       curricula and raise standards for mathematics performance levels
       expected of all students regardless of major.
     * Colleges and universities should design strategies to attract more
       students to mathematics, and mathematics-related disciplines.
     * Colleges and universities should identify financial incentives that
       can be used to support improved mathematics performance.

   Advice for Regional Professional Development Centers
     * Each RPDC should become a central hub of activity in support of
       improved teaching and learning throughout all educational levels.
     * Performance goals should drive systematic evaluation of the
       effectiveness of each RPDC.
     * Knowledge of disciplinary content must be viewed as a necessary
       foundation for effective teaching, and should be primary when
       designing professional development programs.

   Advice for Legislators and the Governor
     * The State Board of Education, leaders in the Missouri General
       Assembly, and the governor should continue to seek ways in which
       the results of increasingly demanding tests in mathematics can be
       translated more directly into school improvement and the provision
       of individual remediation.
     * The Missouri General Assembly should adopt legislation explicitly
       identifying the states interest in raising mathematics achievement
       levels. Such legislation should establish a grant program through
       the State Board of Education to help integrate algebraic thinking
       into elementary, middle, and junior high school classes.

   Advice for Sponsoring Boards
     * The sponsoring boards should review current data systems with the
       goal of having common data definitions that allow for the
       identification of research initiatives. In addition,
       board-sponsored statewide research activities across all
       educational levels should strive to provide policymakers with
       useful data about student performance and the preparation of
       teachers.
     * A permanent mathematics technical advisory committee of faculty
       should be appointed to ensure faculty perspective and support in
       the development of new public policy initiatives.
     * Incentives should be identified and used to support improvements in
       teaching and learning throughout Missouris educational system,
       collaboration across educational sectors, and curricular changes
       that will provide better coherence and continuity for students.
     * The State Board of Education should work with the Coordinating
       Board for Higher Education in defining a collaborative role for the
       Coordinating Board to play in the review of existing teacher
       education programs.
     * By showcasing best practices, the sponsoring boards can reinforce
       networking and coordination while promoting innovation and the
       cross-fertilization of ideas.

                            Looking to the Future

   As the Missouri K-16 Coalition looks ahead, it seems clear that,
   whatever its next focus, two tasks must be on the agenda:
     * monitoring the implementation of its recommendations on mathematics
       and the results therefrom; and
     * enlisting the participation of all groups at the local, state, and
       national levels that share a commitment to improving student
       performance, such as local public school education foundations and
       parent, business, and community support groups in specific school
       districts; the Partnership for Outstanding Schools in Missouri; and
       the Learning First Alliance, a national coalition of 12 national
       education associations in Washington, D.C. representing 10 million
       members.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 APPENDIX I

   Charge to the Missouri K-16 Coalition

   The Coordinating Board for Higher Education, the State Board of
   Education, and the University of Missouri Board of Curators have formed
   a historic new partnership in support of high quality standards for all
   students in their pursuit of knowledge. Prominent Missourians committed
   to quality education at all levels have been appointed to the Missouri
   K-16 Coalition. Coalition members will work together in an effort to
   create a seamless education system and to raise expectations and
   performance levels of all students, from kindergarten through the
   baccalaureate degree. The Coalition will work with all sectors of
   elementary, secondary, and higher education, both public and private.

   The Coalition is initially being asked to concentrate on the important
   area of mathematics and to consider ways in which the success of
   Missouri students in mathematics can be increased. The focus will be on
   grades 11 and 12 and the first two years of higher education. The
   Coalition is charged with:
     * Promoting quality performance standards that reduce the need for
       remediation
     * Encouraging faculty agreements on content and expectations in the
       major disciplines, beginning with mathematics
     * Increasing public awareness of the importance of improved student
       performance
     * Supporting full articulation within and across educational sectors
     * Identifying strategies for enhanced student performance based upon
       preparation and ability
     * Developing policy recommendations to be shared with the
       Coordinating Board for Higher Education, the State Board of
       Education, and the UM Board of Curators

   Dr. Melvin D. George, President Emeritus of the University of Missouri
   and principal author of the National Science Foundation's report
   Shaping the Future, will chair the Coalition. Additional projects
   beyond mathematics will be considered throughout the year. Educators
   and business and government leaders are joining together to make a
   difference for Missouri's youth as they prepare for a future that will
   be filled with challenge and change.

   Membership of the Missouri K-16 Coalition

   Honorable Roseann Bentley
   State Senator
   State Capitol Building, Room 421
   Jefferson City, Missouri 65101

   Mr. William Berkley
   Vice Chairman
   Civil Council
   Chief Executive Officer, Tension Envelop
   819 East 19th St.
   Kansas City, MO 64108

   Mrs. Marie Carmichael
   Member, Coordinating Board for Higher Education
   908 South Augusta Drive
   Springfield, MO 65809

   Ms. Peggy Cochran
   Executive Director
   Missouri National Education Association
   1810 East Elm St.
   Jefferson City, MO 65101

   Honorable Rebecca McDowell Cook
   Secretary of State
   State Capitol Building, Room 208
   Jefferson City, MO 65101

   Mr. Mike Cooper
   University of Missouri Extension Retiree
   Post Office Box 386
   417 North Walnut
   Hayti, MO 63851

   Mr. John Gentry
   President
   Positronics Industries
   Post Office Box 8247
   Springfield, MO 65801

   Dr. Mel George, Coalition Chair
   President Emeritus
   University of Missouri
   306 Reynolds Center
   Columbia, MO 65211

   Dr. Malaika Horne
   Member, Board of Curators
   University of Missouri
   4908 Washington Blvd.
   St. Louis, MO 63108

   Dr. Dean L. Hubbard
   President
   Northwest Missouri State University
   800 University Drive
   Maryville, MO 64468-6001

   Mr. Kent King
   Executive Director
   Missouri State Teachers Association
   Post Office Box 458
   Columbia, MO 65205

   Mrs. Wilma Maddox
   Member, Board of Governors
   Truman State University
   808 Sunset Drive
   Macon, MO 63552-1060

   Ms. Annette Morgan
   Former State Representative
   Member, National Commission on Teaching and Americas Future
   221 West 48th St., Apt. 1601
   Kansas City, MO 64112

   Dr. Henry Shannon
   Acting Chancellor
   St. Louis Community College
   300 South Broadway
   St. Louis, Missouri 63102

   Mr. Wayman F. Smith, III
   Vice President of Corporate Affairs
   Anheuser Busch
   One Busch Place
   St. Louis, MO 63118

   Dr. Russell Thompson
   Member, State Board of Education
   6300 S. State Highway 163
   Columbia, MO 65203

   Dr. Carter Ward
   Executive Director
   Missouri School Boards Association
   2l00 I70 Drive SW
   Columbia, MO 65203

   Dr. Helen Washburn
   President
   Cottey College
   1000 West Austin
   Nevada, MO 64772-1000
   Mr. Eugene R. Wilson
   President, Youth Development
   Kauffman Foundation
   4900 Oak Street
   Kansas City, MO 64112
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 APPENDIX II

                                BIBLIOGRAPHY

             Information Reviewed by the Missouri K-16 Coalition

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (August
   1999). NTE/PRAXIS Results for Missouri Math Pre-Service teachers for
   the school years 1996-97, 1997-98, and 1998-99.

   Business Coalition for Education Reform. (May 1998) The Formula for
   Success: A Business Leader's Guide for Supporting Math and Science
   Achievement

   . Coordinating Board for Higher Education. (1999, April 15). Blueprint
   for Missouri Higher Education- 1999 Report on the Progress toward the
   Statewide Initiatives and Goals.

   Coordinating Board for Higher Education. Degree Productivity in
   Selected Fields. Paper presented at the March 31, 1998 K-16 Coalition
   meeting with information from IPEDS C, Completions form and the Digest
   of Educational Statistics.

   Coordinating Board for Higher Education. (1996). Remediation Report of
   Fall 1996 Enrollment: Missouri High School 1996 Graduation Class: Full-
   and Part-time, Degree- and Nondegree-seeking Freshmen at Missouri
   Public Two- and Four-year Colleges and Universities.

   Coordinating Board for Higher Education. (1999). Mathematics Summary:
   Tracking Mathematics from High School Through College Graduation. Paper
   presented at the March 31, 1999 K-16 Coalition meeting.

   Coordinating Board for Higher Education and the Missouri State Board of
   Education. (1996). Technical Education Now: Missouri State Plan for
   Postsecondary Technical Education.

   CTB/McGraw-Hill. (1998, March). Linking the Grade 8 Missouri
   Mathematics Assessment to TIMSS.

   CTB/McGraw Hill. (1997, August). Mathematics Achievement-Level Setting
   Final Technical Report.

   Education Trust. K-16 National Context and State Initiatives.
   [Brochure]. Washington, D.C.

   George, Melvin. (1998, March). "Don't Close Your Options for Life by
   Neglecting Math," The Word on Business, p.11.

   Haycock, Kati. (1998, Summer). "Good teaching mattersA lot," Thinking
   K-16, Vol. 3, Issue 2.

   Hipple, Ted. (1999, July 30). "It's Elementary: Better Training, Better
   Teachers," The Chronicle of Higher Education, p. B6.

   Learning First Alliance. Every Child Mathematically Proficient: An
   Action Plan. Available FTP:
   [http://www.learningfirst.org/math-tips.html].

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1997, May).
   "The Importance of Higher Math and Science Standards for Missouri
   Students." Outstanding Schools, Vol. V, Number V.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1996,
   September). Preview of the New Missouri Assessment Program: Grade 4
   Mathematics Sampler.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1996
   September). Preview of the New Missouri Assessment Program: Grade 8
   Mathematics Sampler.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1996
   September). Preview of the New Missouri Assessment Program: Grade 10
   Mathematics Sampler.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1997,
   January). Assessment Annotations for the Mathematics Curriculum
   Frameworks.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1998,
   January), Missouri Assessment Program Summary Report.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1998,
   Spring). Navigating the MAP: Mathematics.

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1998,
   April). Missouri Standards for Teacher Education Programs (MoSTEP).

   Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (1999,
   March). Subject Specific Competencies for Beginning Teachers in
   Missouri.

   Missouri Team NASH. (1998). Report from the Education Trust K-16 Summer
   Institute. Paper presented at the September, 9, 1998 K-16 Coalition
   meeting.

   National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). (1996). NAEP 1996
   Mathematics Report Card for the Nation and the States. Available FTP:
   [http://www.nces.gov/nationsreportcard/96report/97488.shtml].

   National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). (1996). The
   Nation's Report Card: Focus on Mathematics. Available FTP:
   [http://www.nces.gov/nationsreportcard/math/math_scores_up.asp].

   National Education Goals Panel. (1997). 1997 National Education Goals
   Report. Available FTP: [http://www.negp.gov/webpg10.htm]

   National Science Board. (1998, July). Failing Our Children:
   Implications of the TIMSS.

   Northwest Missouri State University. (1998). Northwest Missouri State
   University Academy for Computers, Science, and Mathematics.

   Olson, Steve. "Candid Camera." Education Week. Available FTP:
   [www.edweek.org/tm/vol10/08candid.h10].

   Outstanding Schools Act. from the Revised Statutes of Missouri, Section
   160.500 to Section 160.526.

   Task Force on Critical Choices for Higher Education. (1992). Suggested
   Statewide Public Policy Initiatives and Goals: Report to the CBHE.

   "10 States to Set Math Standards." (1999, May 6). Kansas City Star, p.
   A9.

   University of Missouri-Columbia. (1999). [High School and College Math
   Performance: Parkway West High School and UM- Columbia]. Unpublished
   raw data.

   Williamson, Michael R. (1998, May 23). "High schoolers do have a stake
   in MEAP tests," Detroit News.

   Wu, Hung-His. (1999, May). "Professional Development of Mathematics
   Teachers," Notice of the American Mathematical Society (AMS).

   back to top

                               thin banner gif
   Missouri Department of Higher Education, 3515 Amazonas Dr.,  Jefferson
                            City, MO  65109-5717
   Phone: 573-751-2361 Fax: 573-751-6635 MOSTARS Information Center: (800)
                                  473-6757
          Technical questions about the Web site please contact us.

   This page was last updated Fri, 11 Jan 2002 14:37:51
