http://www.mnwg.cap.gov/pd/

   [cap.gif] Minnesota Wing/PD
   Senior Member Professional Development

                                Wing PD Staff

                                 THE PROGRAM
                                   Level 1
                                   Level 2
                                   Level 3
                                   Level 4
                                   Level 5

                                OPPROTUNITIES
                                 PD Training
                                 ES Training
                                Cadet Program
                                Aerospace Ed

                                   AFIDLC
                               Course Catalog
                                How to Enroll
                                 ECI Form 23
                                  Help Desk
                               Testing Policy

                                  DOWNLOADS

   Welcome to the Minnesota Wing Professional Development Website.

   Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is a nonprofit, benevolent corporation. It is
   the official auxiliary of the United States Air Force. Congress
   chartered CAP to perform certain duties for individual communities and
   for the nation.

   That charter helped establish the three-part mission that includes
   emergency services, aerospace education, and the cadet program.

   To accomplish its mission, CAP requires an informed, active senior
   membership trained in leadership, management, and functional tasks. The
   CAP Senior Member Training Program prepares members to serve their
   units, their communities, and their nation.

   This website is part of the wing's effort to make those resources and
   learning opprotunities available to all of it's senior members.

   We welcome comments on this site. Please direct them to the webmaster.


   Lt Col Tom O'Connor
   Director of Professional Development

              Copyright 2001, Minnesota Wing, Civil Air Patrol
   This is an authorized CAP Internet Operation in accord with CAPR 110-1.
