http://www.mtc.gov/PUBLCPAR/Ppp1196.htm

                               [banner11.gif]

            Multistate Tax Commission Public Participation Policy

                          Adopted November 21, 1996

   Table of Contents
   Section 1. Statement of Policy; Open proceedings; Citation of policy
   Section 2. "Multistate Tax Commission;" "Commission;" "Commission
   member;" "Commission body" and                    "Member State"
   Section 3. Providing copy of policy to members of the Commission or
   Commission bodies
   Section 4. "Action taken"
   Section 5. Required open and public meetings
   Section 6. Prohibited conditions of attendance
   Section 7. Recording proceedings
   Section 8. Notice of meeting
   Section 9. Agenda and other "writing" as public record; Inspection
   Section 10. Public participation in regulations and uniformity
   proposals
   Section 11. Public report of action taken regarding public employee
   Section 12. Conditions for taking action on items not appearing on
   posted agenda
   Section 13. Emergency meetings.
   Section 14. Opportunity for public to address the Commission
   Section 15. Permitted closed sessions; Lawyer-client privilege
   Section 16. Minute book of closed session
   Section 17. Statement of reasons and authority for closed session
   Section 18. Clearing room where meeting willfully interrupted
   Section 19. Commission bodies subject to policy
   Section 20. When closed sessions held
   Section 21. Continuance or recontinuance of hearing
   Section 22. Annual meetings for comments on Commission and multistate
   tax issues
   Section 23. Fees
   Section 24. Complaints regarding public participation policy
   Section 25. Prohibition against use of certain facilities
   Section 26. Prohibition against closed sessions except as expressly
   authorized
   Section 27. Maintenance of mailing lists
   Section 28. Maintenance of description of Commission committees and
   other groups


   Section 1. Statement of Policy; Open proceedings; Citation of policy

    The Multistate Tax Commission exists to aid in the conduct of the
   people's business. To this end the Commission declares that its
   proceedings be conducted openly so that the public may remain informed.

   In adopting this policy the Multistate Tax Commission finds and
   declares that it is the intent of this policy that actions of the
   Multistate Tax Commission be taken openly and that its deliberations be
   conducted openly.

   As a matter of State law and the Multistate Tax Compact, the Commission
   is required to protect confidential taxpayer information obtained by
   any tax agency in the administration of its laws from public
   disclosure. Improper disclosure violates the rights of individual
   taxpayers, erodes voluntary compliance and frustrates proper tax
   enforcement. In maximizing public participation, the Commission will
   safeguard taxpayer information protected by the laws of its members and
   the federal government both to protect the rights of individual
   taxpayers and the public interest in ensuring proper compliance with
   state and federal laws and to recognize that it is a crime to disclose
   such information in most States.

   This policy shall be known and may be cited as the Multistate Tax
   Commission Public Participation Policy.

   [top]

   Section 2. " Multistate Tax Commission;" "Commission;" "Commission
   member;" "Commission body" and "Member State"

   (a) As used in this policy, "Multistate Tax Commission" or "Commission"
   means the Commission or its Executive Committee established by Article
   VI. of the Multistate Tax Compact.

   (b) As used in this policy, "Commission member" means a member of the
   Commission as described in Article VI. 1.(a) of the Multistate Tax
   Compact or an alternate designated pursuant to Article VI. 1. (a) to
   represent a member when such person so designated is serving in that
   capacity.

   (c) As used in this policy, "Commission body" means every committee,
   advisory committee, subcommittee or similar multimember body of the
   Commission which is required by the Multistate Compact or the By-Laws
   of the Commission to conduct official meetings and every committee
   created by the Commission or its Executive Committee.

   (d) As used in this policy, "Commission body" also means any board,
   commission, committee, or similar multimember body which exercises any
   authority of the Commission delegated to it by the Commission;

   (e) As used in this policy, "Commission body" also means any advisory
   board, advisory commission, advisory committee, advisory subcommittee,
   or similar multimember advisory body of the Commission, if created by
   formal action of the Commission or of any member of the Commission when
   acting in their official capacity as a member of the Commission, and if
   the advisory body so created consists of three or more persons.

   (f) As used in this policy, "Member State" means a party State of the
   Multistate Tax Compact, an associate or sovereignty member State of the
   Commission or any State participating in a Commission program. "State"
   means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
   Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any Territory or Possession of the
   United States or a subdivision of a State.

   [top]

   Section 3. Providing copy of policy to members of the Commission or
   Commission bodies

   The Commission shall provide a copy of this policy to each member of
   the Commission or Commission body upon his or her appointment to
   membership or assumption of office.

   [top]

   Section 4. "Action taken"

   As used in this policy, "action taken" means a collective decision made
   by the members of the Commission or of a Commission body, a collective
   commitment or promise by the members of the Commission or of a
   Commission body to make a positive or negative decision or an actual
   vote by the members of the Commission or of a Commission body when
   sitting as a body or entity upon a motion, proposal, resolution, order
   or similar action.

   [top]

   Section 5. Required open and public meetings

   (a) All meetings of the Commission or a Commission body shall be open
   and public and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meeting of
   the Commission or a Commission body except as otherwise provided in
   this policy.

   (b)(1) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prohibit the
   Commission or a Commission body from holding an open or closed meeting
   by teleconference if the convening at one location of a quorum of the
   Commission or the Commission body is difficult or impossible, subject
   to all of the following:

   (A) The teleconferencing meeting shall comply with all requirements of
   this policy applicable to other meetings.

   (B) The portion of the teleconferenced meeting that is required to be
   open to the public shall be audible to the public at the location
   specified in the notice of the meeting.

   (C) Each teleconference location shall be identified in the notice of
   the meeting and shall be accessible to the public.

   (D) All votes taken during a teleconferenced meeting shall be by
   rollcall.

   (E) At least one member of the Commission or Commission body or of an
   employee of the Commission or a member State shall be physically
   present at the location specified in the notice of the meeting.

   (2) For the purposes of this section, "teleconference" means a
   conference of individuals in different locations, connected by
   electronic means, through either audio or video, or both.

   (c) "Meeting" includes any congregation, whether in person or by
   electronic means, of three or more members of the Commission or
   Commission body at the same time to hear, discuss, deliberate or act
   upon any item that is within their subject matter jurisdiction except:

   (1) social or ceremonial occasions whether sponsored in whole or in
   part by the Commission or a Commission body;

   (2) at a conference or similar gathering sponsored by an entity other
   than the Commission or a Commission body that involves discussion of
   issues of general interest provided that a majority of the members do
   not discuss among themselves, other than as part of the scheduled
   program, business that is within the jurisdiction of the Commission or
   the Commission body; or

   (3) training or informational sessions sponsored by the Commission or a
   Commission body at which there are no actions or deliberative
   discussions undertaken.

   [top]

   Section 6. Prohibited conditions of attendance

   No person shall be required, as a condition of attendance at a meeting
   of the Commission or a Commission body, to register his or her name, to
   provide other information, to complete a questionnaire, or otherwise to
   fulfill any condition precedent to his or her attendance.

   If an attendance list, register, questionnaire, or other similar
   document is posted at or near the entrance to the room where the
   meeting is to be held, or is circulated to persons present during the
   meeting, it shall state clearly that the signing, registering, or
   completion of the document is voluntary, and that all persons may
   attend the meeting regardless of whether a person signs, registers, or
   completes the document.

   [top]

   Section 7. Recording proceedings

   Any person attending an open and public meeting of the Commission or a
   Commission body shall have the right to record the proceedings on a
   tape recorder in the absence of a reasonable finding of the Commission
   or the Commission body that such recording constitutes, or would
   constitute, a disruption of the proceedings.

   [top]

   Section 8. Notice of meeting

   (a) The Commission shall provide notice of a meeting of the Commission
   or a Commission body to any person who requests such notice in writing.
   Notice shall be given at least 10 days in advance of the meeting, and
   shall include the name, address, and telephone number of any person who
   can provide further information prior to the meeting, but need not
   include a list of witnesses expected to appear at the meeting. The
   notice requirement shall not preclude the acceptance of testimony at
   meetings, other than emergency meetings, from members of the public,
   provided, however, that no action is taken by the Commission or the
   Commission body at the same meeting on matters brought before the
   Commission or the Commission body by members of the public.

   (b) The notice of a meeting of the Commission or a Commission body as
   defined in Section 2. (c) and (d) shall include a specific agenda for
   the meeting, which shall include the items of business to be transacted
   or discussed, and no item shall be added to the agenda subsequent to
   the provision of this notice.

   (c) The notice of a meeting of an advisory body of the Commission as
   defined in Section 2. (e) shall include a brief, general description of
   the business to be transacted or discussed, and no item shall be added
   subsequent to the provision of the notice.

   (d) Notice of a meeting of the Commission or a Commission body as
   defined in Section 2. (c) and (d) which complies with this section
   shall also constitute notice of a meeting of an advisory body of the
   Commission as defined in Section 2. (e), provided that the business to
   be discussed by the advisory body is covered by the notice of the
   meeting of the Commission or the Commission body, provided that the
   specific time and place of the advisory body's meeting is announced
   during the open and public meeting of the Commission or the Commission
   body, and provided that the advisory body's meeting is conducted within
   a reasonable time of, and nearby, the meeting of the Commission or the
   Commission body.

   (e) A person may request, and shall be provided, notice pursuant to
   subdivision (a) for all meetings of the Commission or Commission bodies
   or for a specific meeting or meetings. In addition, at the Commission's
   discretion, a person may request, and may be provided, notice of only
   those meetings of the Commission or Commission body at which a
   particular subject or subjects specified in the request will be
   discussed.

   (f) A request for notice of more than one meeting of the Commission or
   a Commission body shall be subject to the provisions of Section 27.

   [top]

   Section 9. Agenda and other "writing" as public record; Inspection

   (a) Agendas of public meetings and other writings, when distributed to
   all, or a majority of all, of the members of the Commission or a
   Commission body by a member, officer, employee, or agent of the
   Commission for discussion or consideration at a public meeting of the
   Commission or the Commission body, are public records as soon as
   distributed, and shall be made available. However, this section shall
   not include any writing which is

   (1) a preliminary draft, note or memoranda which are not retained by
   the Commission in the ordinary course of business, provided that the
   public interest in withholding those records clearly outweighs the
   public interest in disclosure;

   (2) records pertaining to pending litigation to which the Commission or
   member state is a party until the pending litigation has been finally
   adjudicated or otherwise settled; and

   (3) personnel, medical or similar files the disclosure of which would
   constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

   (b) Writings which are public records under subdivision (a) and which
   are distributed prior to commencement of a public meeting shall be made
   available for public inspection upon request prior to commencement of
   such meeting.

   (c) Writings which are public records under subdivision (a) and which
   are distributed during a public meeting and prior to commencement of
   their discussion at such meeting shall be made available for public
   inspection prior to commencement of, and during, their discussion at
   such meeting.

   (d) Writings which are public records under subdivision (a) and which
   are distributed during their discussion at a public meeting shall be
   made available for public inspection immediately or as soon thereafter
   as is practicable.

   (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
   Commission from charging a fee or deposit for a copy of a public record
   to cover the direct costs of duplication. This section shall not be
   construed to be applicable to any writings solely because they are
   properly discussed in a closed session of the Commission or a
   Commission body. Nothing in this policy shall be construed to require
   the Commission to place any paid advertisement or any other paid notice
   in any publication.

   (f) "Writing" for purposes of this section means handwriting,
   typewriting, printing, photostatting, photographing, and every other
   means of recording upon any form or communication or representation,
   including letters, words, pictures, sounds, or symbols, or combination
   thereof, and all papers, maps, magnetic or paper tapes, photographic
   films and prints, magnetic or punched cards, discs, drums and other
   documents.

   [top]

   Section 10. Public participation in regulations and uniformity
   proposals

   The Multistate Tax Compact requires that public hearings be conducted
   upon each proposal for a uniform tax regulation. Public notice of such
   hearings is required and will be submitted for publication to
   publications dealing with State and local taxation and by the posting
   of such information on a Commission web site when it is established.
   Within available resources, the Commission will conduct two or more
   public hearings at geographically diverse sites on such proposals.
   Provision will be made, whenever possible, for participation in
   hearings through telephonic means.

   In developing uniform tax regulation proposals, the Commission may
   solicit participants for public participation working groups to provide
   advice on the drafting of such proposals. Solicitation for public
   participation working groups will be sought from States and, if
   applicable, local governments and will be directed to potential
   participants from academia, affected industry or taxpayer groups, and
   groups representing the public that are interested in the State and
   local tax issues being addressed.

   [top]

   Section 11. Public report of action taken regarding public employee

   The Commission or a Commission body shall report publicly at a
   subsequent public meeting any action taken, and any rollcall vote
   thereon, to appoint, employ, or dismiss a public employee arising out
   of any closed session of the Commission or the Commission body.

   [top]

   Section 12. Conditions for taking action on items not appearing on
   posted agenda

   (a) Notwithstanding Section 8, the Commission or a Commission body may
   take action on items of business not appearing on the posted agenda
   under any of the conditions stated below:

   (1) Upon a determination by a majority vote of the Commission or a
   Commission body that an emergency situation exists, as defined in
   Section 13.

   (2) Upon a determination by a two-thirds vote of the Commission or a
   Commission body, or, if less than two-thirds of the members are
   present, a unanimous vote of those members present, that there exists a
   need to take immediate action and that the need for action came to the
   attention of the Commission or the Commission body subsequent to the
   agenda being posted as specified in Section 8.

   (b) Except when notice is provided under the provisions of Section 13,
   notice of the additional item to be considered shall be provided to
   each member of the Commission or the Commission body and to all parties
   that have requested notice of its meetings as soon as is practicable
   after a determination of the need to consider the item is made, but
   shall be delivered in a manner that allows it to be received by the
   members at least 48 hours before the time of the meeting specified in
   the notice. Notice shall be made available to national publications
   which specifically address tax matters. Notice shall be provided to the
   general public by placing it on appropriate electronic bulletin boards
   or other appropriate mechanisms, whenever the Commission has the
   electronic capability necessary to do so.

   [top]

   Section 13. Emergency meetings.

   (a) In the case of an emergency situation involving matters upon which
   prompt action is necessary due to an actual or proposed disruption of
   the operation of State laws, threat to the fiscal integrity of the
   Commission or the imminent loss of an opportunity by a taxpayer to
   resolve a dispute with the Commission or a State, the Commission or a
   Commission body may hold an emergency meeting without complying with
   the 10 day notice requirement of Section 8.

   (b) For purposes of this section, "emergency situation" means any of
   the following, as determined by a majority of the members of the
   Commission or a Commission body during a meeting prior to an emergency
   meeting, or at the beginning of an emergency meeting: (1) an actual or
   pending action by Congress or one of its committees or subcommittees,
   by an agency of the federal government, or by a court of the United
   States that would preempt or disrupt the operation of a law of a member
   State or States or that would adversely affect taxpayers of a member
   State or States; (2) administrative disciplinary matters, including,
   but not limited to, consideration of proposed decisions and
   stipulations, and pending litigation, which require immediate
   attention; (3) consideration of actions by the Commission necessary to
   meet statutory deadlines for the administration of tax laws in a member
   State where a decision must be made in less than 10 days, and (4)
   actions necessary to ensure the availability to a taxpayer of
   Commission procedures to resolve a tax dispute with the Commission or a
   State or States where a decision must be made in less than 10 days.

   (c) Publications which have requested notice of meetings pursuant to
   Section 8 shall be notified by the Commission at least one hour prior
   to the emergency meeting by telephone. If telephone services are not
   functioning, the notice requirements of this section shall be deemed
   waived, and the Commission shall notify those publications of the fact
   of the holding of the emergency meeting, the purpose of the meeting,
   and any action taken at the meeting as soon after the meeting as
   possible.

   (d) The minutes of a meeting called pursuant to this section, a list of
   persons that the Commission notified or attempted to notify, a copy of
   the rollcall vote, and any action taken at the meeting shall be
   provided to all persons requesting notice of meetings of the Commission
   or Commission bodies as soon after the meeting as possible.

   [top]

   Section 14. Opportunity for public to address the Commission

   (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Commission or a
   Commission body shall provide an opportunity for members of the public
   to address directly the Commission or a Commission body on each agenda
   item before or during the discussion or consideration of the item. This
   section is not applicable if the agenda item has already been
   considered by a committee composed exclusively of members of the
   Commission or the Commission body at a public meeting where interested
   members of the public were afforded the opportunity to address the
   committee on the item, before or during the committee's consideration
   of the item, unless the item has been substantially changed since the
   committee heard the item, as determined by the Commission or the
   Commission body.

   (b) The Commission may adopt reasonable policies and procedures to
   ensure that the intent of subdivision (a) is carried out, including,
   but not limited to, policies and procedures limiting the total amount
   of time allocated for public comment on particular issues and for each
   individual speaker.

   (c) This section is not applicable to closed sessions held pursuant to
   Section 14. [Ed. Note: Reference should be to Section 15].

   [top]

   Section 15. Permitted closed sessions; Lawyer-client privilege

   (a) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the Commission
   or a Commission body from holding closed sessions during a regular or
   special meeting to consider the appointment, employment, or dismissal
   of an employee of the Commission. The Commission or Commission body may
   deliberate on the decision to be reached on the appointment, employment
   or dismissal of the employee in a closed session.

   (b) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the Commission
   or a Commission body from holding closed sessions with its negotiator
   prior to the purchase, sale, exchange, or lease of real property by or
   for the Commission or the Commission body to give instructions to its
   negotiator regarding the price and terms of payment for the purchase,
   sale, exchange, or lease.

   However, prior to the closed session, the Commission or Commission body
   shall hold an open and public session in which it identifies the real
   property or real properties which the negotiations may concern and the
   person or persons with whom its negotiator may negotiate.

   For purposes of this subdivision, the negotiator may be a member of the
   Commission or a Commission body.

   For purposes of this subdivision, "lease" includes renewal or
   renegotiation of a lease.

   (c) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the Commission
   or a Commission body from holding closed sessions for the purpose of
   discussion of confidential tax returns or data or any other matter the
   public disclosure of which is prohibited by law of a member State or
   pursuant to federal law, or from considering matters pertaining to the
   appointment or removal of the Executive Director of the Commission.

    (d) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the
   Commission or a Commission body if it invests retirement, pension, or
   endowment funds from holding closed sessions when considering
   investment decisions. For purposes of consideration of shareholder
   voting on corporate stocks held by the Commission, closed sessions for
   the purposes of voting may be held only with respect to election of
   corporate directors, election of independent auditors, and other
   financial issues that could have a material effect on the net income of
   the corporation. For the purpose of real property investment decisions
   that may be considered in a closed session pursuant to this
   subdivision, the Commission or a Commission body shall also be exempt
   from the provision of subdivision (b) relating to the identification of
   real properties prior to the closed session.

   (e) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the Commission
   or a Commission body from holding closed sessions with its
   representatives in discharging its responsibilities that relate to
   salaries, salary schedules, or compensation paid in the form of fringe
   benefits. For the purposes enumerated in the preceding sentence, a
   Commission [Ed. Note: "the Commission or a Commission body"?] body may
   also meet with a conciliator who has intervened in the proceedings.

   (f) Nothing in this policy shall be construed to prevent the Commission
   or a Commission body, based on the advice of its legal counsel, from
   holding a closed session to confer with, or receive advice from, its
   legal counsel regarding pending litigation when discussion in open
   session concerning those matters would prejudice the position of the
   Commission or a member State in the litigation.

   For purposes of this subdivision, litigation shall be considered
   pending when any of the following circumstances exist:

   (1) An adjudicatory proceeding before a court, an administrative body
   exercising its adjudicatory authority, a hearing officer, or an
   arbitrator, to which the Commission or a member State is a party, has
   been initiated formally.

   (2) (A) A point has been reached where, in the opinion of the
   Commission or a Commission body on the advice of its legal counsel,
   based on existing facts and circumstances, there is a significant
   exposure to litigation against the Commission or a member State; or

   (B) Based on existing facts and circumstances, the Commission or a
   Commission body is meeting only to decide whether a closed session is
   authorized pursuant to subparagraph (A).

   (3) Based on existing facts and circumstances, the Commission or a
   Commission body or a member State has decided to initiate or is
   deciding whether to initiate litigation.

   The legal counsel of the Commission shall prepare and submit to it a
   memorandum stating the specific reasons and legal authority for the
   closed session. If the closed session is pursuant to paragraph (1), the
   memorandum shall include the title of the litigation. If the closed
   session is pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3), the memorandum shall
   include the existing facts and circumstances on which it is based. The
   legal counsel shall submit the memorandum to the Commission or the
   Commission body prior to the closed session, if feasible, and in any
   case no later than one week after the closed session. The memorandum
   shall be exempt from disclosure.

   For purposes of this subdivision, "litigation" includes any
   adjudicatory proceeding, including eminent domain, before a court,
   administrative body exercising its adjudicatory authority, hearing
   officer, or arbitrator.

   Disclosure of a memorandum required under this subdivision shall not be
   deemed as a waiver of the lawyer-client privilege.

   [top]

   Section 16. Minute book of closed session

   The Commission, a Commission body or the Commission’s Executive
   Director shall designate a clerk or other officer or employee of the
   Commission, who shall then attend each closed session of the Commission
   or a Commission body and keep and enter in a minute book a record of
   topics discussed and decisions made at the meeting. The minute book
   made pursuant to this section is not a public record and shall be kept
   confidential. The minute book shall be available to members of the
   Commission or the Commission body. Such minute book may, but need not,
   consist of a recording of the closed session.

   [top]

   Section 17. Statement of reasons and authority for closed session

   (a) Prior to holding any closed session, the Commission or a Commission
   body shall state the general reason or reasons for the closed session,
   and cite the specific authority, including the particular section,
   subdivision, and paragraph under which the session is being held. If
   the session is closed pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) of
   Section 15, the Commission or the Commission body shall state the title
   of, or otherwise specifically identify, the litigation to be discussed
   unless the Commission or the Commission body states that to do so would
   jeopardize the Commission’s or a member State’s ability to effectuate
   service of process upon one or more unserved parties, or that to do so
   would jeopardize its ability to conclude existing settlement
   negotiations to its advantage.

   (b) In the closed session, the Commission or the Commission body may
   consider only those matters covered in its statement.

   (c) The statement shall be made as part of the notice provided for the
   meeting pursuant to Section 8 and of any order or notice required by
   Section 21.

   (d) If, after the closed session agenda has been published in
   compliance with this section, any additional pending litigation (under
   subdivision (f) of Section 15) matters arise, the postponement of which
   will prevent the Commission or the Commission body from complying with
   any statutory, court-ordered, or other legally imposed deadline, the
   Commission or Commission body may proceed to discuss those matters in
   closed session and shall publicly announce in the meeting the title of,
   or otherwise specifically identify, the litigation to be discussed.
   Such an announcement shall be deemed to comply fully with the
   requirements of this section.

   (e) Nothing in this section shall require or authorize the giving of
   names or other information which would constitute an invasion of
   privacy or otherwise unnecessarily divulge the particular facts
   concerning the closed session.

   [top]

   Section 18. Clearing room where meeting willfully interrupted

   In the event that any meeting is willfully interrupted by a group or
   groups of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of such meeting
   unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the removal of individuals
   who are willfully interrupting the meeting the Commission or a
   Commission body may order the meeting room cleared and continue in
   session. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Commission or a
   Commission body from establishing a procedure for readmitting an
   individual or individuals not responsible for willfully disturbing the
   orderly conduct of the meeting. Notwithstanding any other provision of
   law, only matters appearing on the agenda may be considered in such a
   session. Representatives of the press or other news media, except those
   participating in the disturbance, shall be allowed to attend any
   session held pursuant to this section.

   [top]

   Section 19. Commission bodies subject to policy

   Each provision of this policy shall apply to every Commission body
   unless the body is specifically excepted from this policy.

   [top]

   Section 20. When closed sessions held

   Each closed session of the Commission or a Commission body shall be
   held only during a regular or special meeting of the Commission or a
   Commission body.

   [top]

   Section 21. Continuance or recontinuance of hearing

   Any hearing being held, or noticed or ordered to be held by the
   Commission or a Commission body at any meeting may by order or notice
   of continuance be continued or recontinued to any subsequent meeting of
   the Commission or the Commission body which is noticed pursuant to
   Section 8. A copy of the order or notice of continuance shall be
   conspicuously posted on or near the door of the place where the hearing
   was held within 24 hours after the time of the continuance; provided,
   that if the hearing is continued to a time less than 24 hours after the
   time specified in the order or notice of hearing, a copy of the order
   or notice of continuance of hearing shall be posted immediately
   following the meeting at which the order or declaration of continuance
   was adopted or made. If a hearing is held in a hotel or other facility
   not under the control of the Commission or a member State, the posting
   requirement is waived, and the Commission or the Commission body shall
   accomplish the purpose of this section through a reasonable alternative
   means.

   [top]

   Section 22. Annual meetings for comments on Commission and multistate
   tax issues

   The Commission shall hold, at least annually, a forum to solicit
   information and ideas relative to multistate tax issues of broad
   interest to the public. The Commission shall also conduct annually a
   meeting at which any member of the public may provide comments on the
   activities and operations of the Commission and any topic related to
   the purposes of the Multistate Tax Compact.

   [top]

   Section 23. Fees

   No fees may be charged by the Commission for providing a notice
   required by Section 8 or for carrying out any provision of this policy,
   except as specifically authorized pursuant to this policy.

   [top]

   Section 24. Complaints regarding public participation policy

   Complaints involving alleged failures of the Commission or a Commission
   body to adhere to the policies expressed herein shall be directed to
   the Executive Director of the Commission.

   Upon receipt of any complaint, the Executive Director shall immediately
   forward a copy of the Complaint to each member of the Commission.

   Thereafter, the Executive Director, or the General Counsel, of the
   Commission shall conduct an investigation of the complaint and prepare
   a report of findings and recommendations for any remedial steps which
   may be necessary to implement the letter and spirit of this policy. A
   copy of this report shall be forwarded to each member of the Commission
   within 45 days of receipt of the complaint and the matter shall be
   scheduled for discussion and possible action at the next meeting of the
   Commission or the Executive Committee, whichever occurs first.

   [top]

   Section 25. Prohibition against use of certain facilities

   The Commission or a Commission body shall not conduct any meeting,
   conference, or other function in any facility that prohibits the
   admittance of any person, or persons, on the basis of race, religious
   creed, color, national origin, ancestry, or sex. As used in this
   section, " Commission" means and includes every Commission, office,
   officer, department, division, bureau, board, council, or similar
   person or body.

   [top]

   Section 26. Prohibition against closed sessions except as expressly
   authorized

   Except as expressly authorized by this policy, no closed session may be
   held by the Commission or a Commission body.

   [top]

   Section 27. Maintenance of mailing lists

   Whenever the Commission maintains a mailing list of public officials or
   other persons to whom publications or other printed matter is sent
   without charge, the Commission shall correct its mailing list and
   verify its accuracy at least once a year. This shall be done by
   addressing an appropriate post card or letter to each person on the
   mailing list. The name of any person who does not respond to such
   letter or post card, or who indicates that he or she does not desire to
   receive such publications or printed matter shall be removed from the
   mailing lists. The response for those desiring to be on the mailing
   list shall be retained by these agencies for one year.

   [top]

   Section 28. Maintenance of description of Commission committees and
   other groups

   The Commission conducts its business through a variety of committees
   and other bodies. Without limitation as to the applicability of the
   Multistate Tax Commission Public Participation Policy, the Commission
   will maintain and make available to the public a description of those
   committees and groups.

                         [TOP][MTC HOME] [CONTACT US]
