http://www.atdd.noaa.gov/Overview.htm



                Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division

                                  Overview

                                              {short description of image}


     Home
     Overview
     What's New
     Programs

     ETOS
     GEWEX
     ISIS
     Climate
     Canaan Valley
     Other projects

     Personnel
     Publications

   The Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division (ATDD) is one of
   several field divisions of NOAA's Air Resources Laboratory,
   headquartered in Silver Spring, MD (see Division Hierarchy). ATDD began
   as a Weather Bureau Special Projects research office established in
   1948 under Atomic Energy Commission sponsorship in Oak Ridge, TN, and
   still serves as a source of meteorological information and expertise
   for the U. S. Department of Energy and its contractors in Oak Ridge.
   However, ATDD's main function is to perform air quality-related
   research directed toward issues of national and global importance.
   Emphasis is on the lower atmosphere. Objectives are to develop better
   methods for predicting transport, dispersion, and air-surface exchange
   of air pollutants, to extend the applicability of these methods to
   increasingly realistic situations including nighttime cases, complex
   terrain, and non-uniform surfaces, and to test the methods against data
   to determine the confidence limits and uncertainties which apply.

   ATDD has a permanent staff of 26, including fifteen scientists, three
   engineers, and four scientific and technical support staff. We
   frequently host graduate students, post-doctoral fellows, and
   international visitors for varying intervals. Research is performed
   with the aid of personnel of the Radiological Safety, Assessment, and
   Training Division of Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU), and in
   close collaboration with scientists and engineers from Oak Ridge
   National Laboratory (ORNL) and numerous other organizations, government
   agencies, universities, and private research institutions.

   ATDD is located at 456 South Illinois Avenue in Oak Ridge, Tennessee,
   with a permanent research station about five miles away, within Oak
   Ridge National Laboratory's Walker Branch Watershed forested
   experimental area. Important on-site facilities include a wind tunnel
   laboratory, a machine shop, electronics lab, and chemical instruments
   lab (all with design and fabrication capabilities), and a specialized
   library.

   Webmaster
   Updated: August 28, 2000
