http://adoptahorse.blm.gov/stories/oct-2001.htm

      Bureau of Land Management Wild Horse and Burro Internet Adoption
                                                       HOME | Gallery


   Internet Horse Displayed at Kentucky Horse Park
   by Melissa Scott

   Goodfields Kiger Sombra is a two year old Kiger Mustang stallion I
   adopted from the Internet last year. He was captured in September 1999
   from the Riddle Mountain Herd Management Area located near Burns,
   Oregon, and was the youngest of three Kiger stallions offered in the
   January 2000 Internet Adoption. As the final bidding day approached our
   nerves were on edge. We continually watched and placed bids on two
   Kigers while the clock counted down from hours to minutes, then seconds
   and when the bidding process had come to an end, we were the proud
   owners of a yearling Kiger stallion. Although I have owned and trained
   domestic horses, this was my first mustang.

   The next step was to pick up him up at the BLM Holding Facility in
   Cross Plains, Tennessee. My biggest concern was how our young horse
   would make the very long trip across the United States. On the pick up
   day, February 18, 2000, we left Cross Plains, Tennessee with our new
   wild horse. Three and a half hours later we arrived home and unloaded
   our yearling colt into his new corral.

   With two weeks of constant attention our colt accepted a halter and was
   given the name Sombra. Over the next several weeks a great deal of time
   was spent with Sombra, in hand and in the round pen. During the next
   six months, Sombras training advanced to lounging and ground driving.
   He started his training under saddle in the spring of 2001, and
   accepted it willingly. The next few months were spent working on giving
   to bit pressure and leg aids, along with upward and downward
   transitions at the walk, trot and canter. Occasional trail rides and
   tracking cattle were a real treat for him, as he shows a strong herding
   instinct.

   [oct-2001-02.jpg] Sombra was featured in an article in The New York
   Times in June of 2001 which detailed the BLM Internet adoption program.
   After the article, arrangements were made to exhibit him in the Parade
   of Breeds at the Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington, Kentucky. To prepare
   for the exhibition, Sombra was taken to a few large horse shows and
   exposed to strange horses and people. We participated in the Parade of
   Breeds at the Horse Park on August 11 and 12, 2001. All our
   preparations paid off during this milestone in his life, and he behaved
   perfectly. Sombra attracted the largest group of visitors at the demo,
   who asked questions about the gentling process, his training, and Kiger
   Mustangs. Future plans for Sombra will be to promote the Kiger Mustang
   by continuing his training for reining and all around performance work,
   with some minimal breeding. We are very pleased with Sombras progress
   and admire his willingness to please. From what we understand, this
   willing attitude is commonly found in the Kiger Mustang.
   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
