http://arc.publicdebt.treas.gov/fs/fsvendorpayments.htm

               [fslogosm2.gif] Administrative Resource Center
                         Parkersburg, West Virginia
                         Home | What's New | E-mail

                               Vendor Payments

   This page provides information to vendors who provide services to the
   Administrative Resource Center (ARC) or to the customers that are
   serviced by ARC. A complete list of ARC's customers can be seen by
   clicking here.
   Registration with the Central Contractor Registration System
   Contractors that provide services to government agencies are required
   to file registration information with the Central Contractor
   Registration System (CCR), unless the purchase is made with a
   government purchase card.

   Registration with CCR is easy. You can register online in a matter of
   minutes by clicking here or calling 1-888-227-2423. CCR uses the Data
   Universal Numbering System (DUNS) to identify contractors. If you do
   not have a DUNS number, you may obtain one by clicking here or calling
   1-888-814-1435.

   Once you are registered in CCR, all of the information required to
   conduct future business with ARC -- or with any agency of the
   government -- is maintained in the system and only needs to be renewed
   once a year.
   Information On Payment Processing
   The following links will provide answers to questions that you might
   have about payment processing and/or doing business with ARC:
     * EFT Guidelines --- provides access to information about payments
       made via Electronic Funds Transfer.
     * FAQ --- provides information about federal payments.
     * Free Electronic Payment Notices Through PAID --- provides access to
       the Payment Advice Internet Delivery (PAID) system's fact sheet.
     * Invoicing Requirements --- explains the requirements for submitting
       invoices to ARC.
     * Prompt Payment Guidelines --- provides access to information
       concerning the government's obligation to make prompt payments to
       vendors.
     * 1099 Tax Reporting --- provides information and answers questions
       concerning tax statements issued by ARC.
     * Request for Payment by Foreign Payee

   Contacting ARC
   If you need to contact ARC, we can be reached at:
   E-mail: ARCPRB@BPD.TREAS.GOV
       Phone: 304-480-7000
       Fax: 304-480-7201
       Mailing Address:
          Accounting Services Division
          UNB Building - 6th Floor
          Bureau of the Public Debt
          P.O. Box 1328
          Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328

   Affiliated Contracting Office
   ARC's Division of Procurement (DP) serves as our contracting office.
   Detailed procurement-related information can be found on DP's site.

   Updated October 16, 2001
