http://www.fast.sdc.gsa.gov/fastsb/userguide.htm


   GSA Logo             Text graphic - US General Services Administration
            Text graphic - Federal Technology Service
            Text graphic - Heartland Region

                                                            spacer graphic


                                             Picture of the American flag
   Link to Region 6 FTS Homepage Link to IT Products and Services Link to
   Telecommunications Link to FAST Small Business Center Link to European
                                                            Business Unit
   Region 6 Homepage



   CAPTION: User's Guide

   GUIDE TO GSA'S SMALL BUSINESS,
   SOLUTIONS DEVELOPMENT CENTER CONTRACTS
   FOR FEDERAL AGENCIES needing Information Technology (IT) services or
   hardware/software, GSA's Federal Technology Service (FTS) provides
   several possible solutions.

   One of these, the Small Business Solutions Development Center (SDC),
   has contracts with one hundred sixty-four (164) small businesses with
   proven track records of accomplishment. These are contracts awarded
   under the 8(a) Multiple Award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite
   Quantity (MAIDIQ) process.

   Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)) established a
   program that authorizes the Small Business Administration to enter into
   all types of contracts with other agencies and let subcontracts for
   performing those contracts to firms eligible for program participation.
   The SBA contractors are referred to as "8(a) contractors". These have
   been used
   for the Small Business SDC.

   The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code used for these
   contracts is 7373, integration services. Products and services included
   in the contract range from simple connection of personal computers to
   peripherals, construction of Local Area Networks, to installation of
   Wide Area Networks. A vast array of services can also be provided
   including, but not limited to, analysis, documentation and training.
   Hardware and software can also be acquired under these contracts.

   Task and/or delivery orders of three (3) million dollars can be awarded
   as a sole source under these contracts. Orders can be placed for more
   than $3 million, but must be competed among all contract holders.
   Contact your servicing GSA Customer Service Center (CSC), shown on the
   laminated insert to this catalog, for details.

   Specific Labor Categories available under the contracts include:
     * Program Manager
     * Computer Systems Analyst III
     * Computer Systems Analyst II
     * Computer Systems Programmer III
     * Computer Systems Programmer II
     * LAN Technician
     * Technician

   Other labor categories can be added to specific tasks as open market
   items. Your servicing CSC can provide assistance and information on
   specific ordering information.
   FTS CSC GUIDE TO SMALL BUSINESS,
   SOLUTIONS DEVELOPMENT CENTER CONTRACTS
   CSC CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTERS may obtain a broad range of high quality,
   Information Technology integration services under SIC code 7373 through
   the use of the Small Business SDC contracts. The contractors can
   accomplish anything from partial installations to turnkey solutions,
   including ongoing operations, help desk services or training using
   Commercial-Off-the-Shelf hardware/software. Contractors can also
   provide repair and maintenance services as well.

   Pricing information for the labor categories of the various contractors
   is posted on the FTS Products and Services Database at
   http://it-productsservices.gsa.efed.com  (FAST-SBSDC). Please note that
   prices listed there are maximum prices. Normally, you should expect to
   be quoted lower prices on specific tasks unless there are extenuating
   circumstances that would cause you to expect the maximum pricing to be
   used.

   Other labor categories may be added as open market items as needed on
   an individual task basis with a determination of price reasonableness
   by the ordering contracting officer. Should a high demand develop for a
   particular labor category not currently included, the possibility
   exists that it could be added to the contracts.

   Also, the Contracting Officer for these contracts has determined that
   the last two positions listed above, LAN Technician and Technician are
   subject to the Service Contract Act. As such, the Department of Labor
   should be contacted for wage determinations. Any services provided by
   these contractors must have at least 51 percent of the dollar value of
   the service performed by the contractor's own employees.

   HARDWARE/SOFTWARE

   Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS) hardware and software can be purchased
   through these contracts. Since the items were neither listed nor priced
   in the contract, they would be handled as open market items on a
   purchase requiring some means of determining price reasonableness
   such as market research.

   TASK ORDER PROCESS FOR FTS, CLIENT SUPPORT
   CENTERS (CSC)

   The 8(a) firms have been encouraged to self-market in order to further
   develop their business skills. Self-marketed orders can be awarded up
   to $3 million each. Orders over that amount must be competed among all
   the contract holders.

   The contracts have been opened for direct ordering by all FTS
   activities with warranted contracting officers. All contracts have been
   modified to allow direct placement of task orders by FTS contracting
   activities. This allows placement of orders, termination of orders,
   modification of orders, including assignment of claims for an order,
   and related administrative
   actions. Ordering offices are NOT able to make modifications to the
   actual contracts. Ordering offices are requested to forward copies of
   their orders against these contracts to the SDC.

   Sole Source Task Order Procedure
   For awards of $3 million or less (the minimum order size is $100), the
   sole source procedure may be used. In this case, an 8(a) firm with one
   of the contracts may be used directly without competition. To do this,
   the CSC representative obtains a written statement from the client that
   they wish to use the firm based on self-marketing or past performance,
   along with their funding, requirements list (hardware/software) or
   Statement of Work (services).

   The CSC will then review the Statement of Work or bill of materials,
   obtain/verify pricing, and review funding to ensure there are funds
   available, and make the determination of price reasonableness. Then a
   task or delivery order is issued to the vendor and contract
   administration on the order will start.

   Competed Task Order Procedure
   If an award is expected to be valued at more than $3 million, the
   competed task order procedure must be used. ALL of the 8(a) multiple
   award holders must be given fair consideration in determining award,
   based on best value to the Government. Past performance on previous
   work may be considered in competed orders. Fair consideration will be
   provided by posting the order on the Electronic Posting System at
   www.eps.gov or by directly contacting all the companies through an
   e-mail list, or the IT Solutions Shop at http://it-solutions.gsa.gov .

   Past Performance
   The collection and use of past performance information is strongly
   encouraged by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. To facilitate the
   collection of this information, a past performance evaluation sheet has
   been developed for use by the client agency. It is the responsibility
   of the
   CSC to have the client agency complete the past performance form when
   the work is completed or otherwise when the status of the contractor's
   performance is known. This form can be found at the SDC web site at
   www.fast.sdc.gsa.gov. The information will be included in a past
   performance database kept by the SDC to be available to all ordering
   activities.

   Administrative Matters

     Assignments of Claim - Contractors may contact you or your
     supporting contracting activity after a task award desiring an
     assignment of claims for that task. Your servicing contracting
     activity will take care of these assignments. In the event a
     contractor wishes to assign their entire contract, they must be
     directed to the SDC contracting officer.

     Novation Agreements - If a contractor's firm is purchased by another
     company, they may contact you regarding a Novation Agreement. If you
     are approached by a company regarding a Novation Agreement or any
     matter regarding the sale or transfer of the company, the matter
     should be promptly referred to the SDC contracting officer.

   Contract Access
   The contract access fee is 1% and will be included in the pricing of
   orders issued.
   No minimum charge

   QUESTIONS?
   Need more information?
     * SDC Director: Mary Parks, 816-823-3960, mary.parks@gsa.gov
     * Chief of Acquisition, SDC: Rita Velilla, 816-823-4356,
       rita.velilla@gsa.gov
     * Contracting Officer: Delta Helm, 816-926-1387, delta.helm@gsa.gov
     *  or call 1-877-327-8732.

   INDUSTRY PARTNERS GUIDE TO SMALL BUSINESS,
   SOLUTIONS DEVELOPMENT CENTER CONTRACTS

   THE SMALL BUSINESS SDC CONTRACTORS hold valuable Government contracts.
   You may have questions about how to use them.

   You may self-market your contract to Government agencies for orders up
   to $3 million on a sole source basis as part of the 8(a) program.
   Orders over $3 million must allow for fair opportunity for competition.
   To ensure participation in competed awards (those over $3 million) be
   sure to review the Electronic Posting System on a daily basis. You are
   encouraged to register on the EPS System web site at www.eps.gov.

   When you find an interested agency, place them in contact with your
   servicing Customer Service Center (CSC). A list of these is provided on
   the laminated insert provided with this catalog. Be sure to have your
   client agency tell the CSC in writing that they want to use your firm
   based on your self-marketing or past performance.

   In your contract, you will find a list of seven labor categories. These
   have been pre-priced at their maximum rates. In normal circumstances,
   you will be expected to quote lower prices for tasks than these
   maximums. You may include other labor categories in tasks as open
   market items. The task order contracting officer or CSC will be
   required to ensure that prices for any open market items are fair and
   reasonable. Hardware/Software items may also be included in task
   orders. These will be open market line items that must have price
   reasonableness demonstrated. Contract access fees of 1% must be
   included in the prices you quote under these contracts. The contract
   access fee will be remitted to GSA per your contract language.

   Service Contract Act
   Note that the last two labor categories in your contract, LAN
   Technician and Technician have been determined by the SDC contracting
   officer to be subject to the Service Contract Act. This means that the
   ordering contracting activity may have to contact the Department of
   Labor for wage rate determinations for these categories for the
   contemplated job site. This will add to the length of time for task
   order award.

   Subcontracting
   Subcontracting is allowed, however, at least 51 percent of the work by
   dollar value must be accomplished by your employees.

   Change in Ownership
   Any Novation Agreements, change in 8(a) status, or company name changes
   must be promptly forwarded to the SDC contracting officer, for
   coordination with legal and SBA.

   Assignments of Claim
   An assignment of claim directed to a specific task/delivery order
   should be handled through the ordering CSC. An assignment directed to
   the entire contract must be forwarded to the SDC contracting officer.

   Questions? 1-877-327-8732

      last updated December 20, 2001



       Region 6 Links: R6 Home | About KC | FTS Digest | Publications |
                       Downloads | Vendor Information
   National Links:  GSA National | FTS National | FirstGov | IT-Solutions
                      | SmallBizMall | Buyers.gov | SBA

   Cookies - Privacy and Security Policy - Site Map - Contact Us
