http://www-sisn.jpl.nasa.gov/submit.html


   Issue Date
   current issue
   search by topic
   subscribe
   submissions
   calendar
   archives
   links
   Issue Number

 Title

 How to Submit Material to This Newsletter
 Submissions on science information systems research performed by NASA
 and NASA partnered entities are welcomed. Please be aware that the
 content will be edited and formatted to the newsletter styling (the
 editor will contact the author if more than minor changes to the
 material are necessary). The Editor reserves the right to determine
 material suitability, length, and publication date.
 Material submitted must have been previously reviewed and approved for
 external publication by the author(s) cognizant authority (staff or
 project supervising body), by jury, or by virtue of prior publication,
 with the understanding that approval was granted for that publishing.
 Please submit all text in a Word file or in ASCII as attachments to, or
 part of, email text.
 Articles
 Submit articles to the Editor. Be sure to:
   * include the names, affiliations (i.e, Science Visualization
     Project, Jet Propulsion Laboratory), and email address of each
     author
   * provide URLs for hypertext links
   * include a contact point (email or url), in case the reader desires
     more information on the subject content
   * include image captions
   * include image/photo credits, if not generated by the submittor
   * include information on material approval (for information purposes
     only)
   * inform the editor of any time constraints on publication (is the
     material time sensitive?)

 Images
 Images should be provides as GIFs, JPGs, etc. Images do not transfer
 well through email. Please provide all pertinent information regarding
 where your images can be accessed (FTP, etc).
 Department Info
 If you have an event that you wish to include in the Calendar section,
 please send: event name, dates, paper submission dates, location,
 contact (phone, fax, email), relevant URLs. If you have been published
 within the last six months and wish to include a reference to your
 paper in the Publications section, please send complete citation:
 title, all authors and affiliations, publication name and date, page
 numbers, and relevant URLs. If you have or your group has received an
 award that you wish to publish in the Honors and Awards section, please
 send all pertinent info: names of people honored, work affiliation,
 name of award, any relevant dates or locations, and relevant URLs.
 Announcements
 Provide the information in Word or ASCII for CANs, NRAs,
 Call-for-Papers, or other announcements, with pertinent dates,
 contacts, and relevant URLs. If the announcement is currently published
 elsewhere on the Web, provide the URL; all information will then be
 downloaded intact and published here.
                                                                        graphics
