http://fire.pppl.gov/UFA_policy_BP2001.pdf

   UFA Technical Policy on Burning Plasma A burning plasma (BP) experiment
   would greatly strengthen the US fusion energy sciences program. The
   TFTR and JET experiments have produced reactor like plasmas and
   attained near breakeven conditions (Q ~ 1). The alpha particle beta and
   energetic particle heating effects in these experiments were
   reactor-like, allowing the first exploration of BP physics. These Q~1
   results using a tokamak magnetic configuration give high confidence in
   the feasibility of a Q>5 experiment. Production of a strongly
   self-heated fusion plasma will allow the study of a number of new
   phenomena. The non- linear coupling between fusion alpha production,
   alpha-heating-sustained pressure profiles, pressure-driven current, MHD
   stability, turbulent transport, and boundary plasma behavior, as well
   as fusion ignition transient phenomena will be studied and controlled.
   The additional studies of Alfven wave dynamics, the effect of energetic
   particles on collisionless reconnection and proton and alpha particle
   heating will also impact space and astrophysical plasma physics. While
   fusion research is ready for a BP experiment more knowledge of plasma
   physics is required for building a cost effective reactor. Innovations
   to improve the economics of the tokamak or a more cost effective
   configuration are needed for a practical reactor. A BP experiment will
   open up new scientific frontiers of study and take us a critical step
   closer to realizing the goal of fusion power. Further, clearly
   demonstrating that a BP can be achieved in a tokamak configuration will
   be directly applicable to a large number of related magnetic
   configurations. In addition, achievement of a BP will stimulate the
   creative engineering and technical development needed to make fusion
   energy practical. Finally, operating in high-Q regimes allows new
   discoveries, leading to significant advances towards practical fusion
   energy. The UFA supports the exploration of potential BP experiments
   and advocates that this important next step be pursued by the U S
   fusion energy sciences program. The main focus of the US fusion energy
   sciences program is to develop the science and technical base needed
   for practical fusion energy by exploration across a broad spectrum of
   magnetic configurations. Each innovative confinement concept being
   investigated offers advantages that would improve the economics and/or
   reliability of a fusion power system. Also pursued in the present
   program are basic plasma science, plasma theory, computational plasma
   physics, system studies, and technology research that are essential to
   develop new understanding that leads progress toward practical fusion
   and towards other applications of plasmas. This base program is needed
   to advance essential science and technology, to develop a more cost
   effective concept, and to capitalize on advances made with a burning
   plasma experiment. Thus, a BP experiment must be funded with a
   significant augmentation of the fusion budget. The relatively flat
   funding in the US fusion energy sciences program for the past several
   years following a major budget cut in 1996, has left the base program
   badly underfunded. Therefore, the UFA supports a balanced program for a
   faster realization of fusion power, requiring an increased base program
   as well as a BP experiment. July 30, 2001 Professor Tom Jarboe
   President, http://depts.washington.edu/ufa/
