http://www.chattanooga.gov/about.htm

   [TopBanner2.gif]


   Home  Events  Links  Search  Photos  What's New  Mayor  Council  Court
                      Chattanooga  Services  Contact Us

                                 About Chattanooga

            FAQs / Links / Photos / Sitemap / More About Chattanooga...

      View the City Guide in PDF (678 KB) To read PDF format you will need
      Acrobat Reader which you can get for free from Adobe.

      Marriage services are rendered by the Hamilton County government. For
      more marriage information check out the marriage information on their
      website.

      Visitors Information can be found at the Chattanooga Area Convention &
      Visitors Bureau website.  From here you will be able to request a free
      visitor's guide or packet and check out many area attractions.

      Urban Growth or 2020 Plan information can be found at the Chattanooga
      Hamilton County Regional Planning Agency website.

   More about Chattanooga...

      Chattanooga, the 4th largest city in the state, is located in Southeast
      Tennessee near the border of Georgia at the junction of four interstate
      highways. Tennessee Aquarium The city has received national recognition
      for the renaissance of its beautiful downtown and redevelopment of its
      riverfront. The city boasts the most productive affordable housing
      program in the nation, and is notable for leveraging development funds
      through effective public/private partnerships, with significant civic
      involvement on the part of private foundations. Chattanooga was one of
      the first US cities to effectively use a citizen visioning process to
      set specific long-range goals to enrich the lives of residents and
      visitors.

      The Chattanooga Convention and Trade Center is solidly booked by groups
      who return to the city year after year for a good time and a great
      facility that is due for a major expansion in year 2000. Public
      entities and private citizens worked together to build the 20,000 seat
      Max Finley Stadium completed in 1998. The city and county have
      developed an extensive greenway system which includes 5 miles of
      constructed riverwalk beginning downtown and meandering through the
      historic art district and several parks. The city supports a downtown
      shuttle fleet of zero-emission electric buses - manufactured here in
      Chattanooga - for commuters and visitors wishing to park-and-ride.

      Attractions such as the Tennessee Aquarium, Lookout Mountain, Civil War
      battlefield sites, the African American Museum, and the Appalachian
      Trail bring thousands of people to the area, as do events like the
      Riverbend Festival, Bessie Smith Strut, Fall Color Cruise, the Creative
      Discovery Museum for children, and the Southern Writers Conference.
      Chattanooga is the home of NCAA Division I-AA national football
      championships and hosts the national softball championships every year.

      People who love the out-of-doors use Chattanooga as a base for
      hang-gliding, bass fishing, mountain climbing and caving expeditions;
      the verdant Smoky Mountains and Tennessee River watershed support the
      greatest variety of flora of any area in the United States.

      The local economy includes a diversified mix of manufacturing and
      service industries, four colleges, and several preparatory schools
      known throughout the South. "Sustainability" is a key concept for
      industry and government working together for enlightened development.

      With its scenic beauty, stable population and economy, civic vitality
      and cross-sector partnerships, fiscal integrity, and strategic
      location, Chattanooga enters the 21^st century as one of the most
      progressive and livable mid-size cities in the US. In this decade the
      city has won 3 national awards for outstanding "livability", and 9
      Gunther Blue Ribbon Awards for excellence in housing and consolidated
      planning.


   Home  Events  Links  Search  Photos  What's New  Mayor  Council  Court
                      Chattanooga  Services  Contact Us
