http://ltp.ivv.nasa.gov/ltc/index.html

   NASA Quest Learning Technologies Channel logo NASA logo

                         Live, Interactive Science!

   Located at NASA's Ames Research Center in Mt. View California, NASA
   Quest produces live streaming video programs with open Chat Rooms for
   live interaction with Scientists and Experts participating in the
   programs. Live events are delivered via streaming media to the Web.
   Live interaction with the Scientists and other participants during the
   events is made possible through an open Posting Room where your
   questions are answered in real time during the broadcast. Many events
   contain science and content intended for K-12 audiences while other
   events are of interest to the viewing public. All events are Live and
   all events are intended to enrich and inspire the viewer. All programs
   are archived for those who have not had the opportunity to attend the
   live event. If you are new to NASA Quest Webcasts, please take a moment
   to check the section on How to Attend Events. We welcome you to the
   fascinating world of science and look forward to meeting you.

                                Navigate LTC

                                 Live Events

                               Archived Events

                            How to Attend Events

                    Learning Technology Channel homepage

   Schedule of upcoming events

   Do you want to attend a LTC event online?

   Contact information

   Visit our archives

   NASA Quest Homepage
   Launch pad with a space shuttle ready to lift off
   International Space Station return: booster floating down to earth with
   a parachute
   Calendar picture to indicate schedule
   Baseball cap with a NASA logo on it
   Subscribe to the Update List and stay informed of upcoming events.
   Enter the words subscribe updates-ltc in the body of your email (place
   a space or period in the Subject Line). Join Us. Probably the most
   exciting part of the processing of the Shuttle to most, is the point at
   which the readied vehicle is poised and then launched into space! This
   month we will focus on the place where this all takes place. As we
   prepare for this webcast, STS-101 is on Pad 39A following 3 scrubs
   awaiting ideal timing and conditions to insure a safe launch and
   mission. The Space Vehicle Mockup Facility in Houston, Texas is the
   center for manned spaceflight and headquarters for the International
   Space Station Program. The audience will be given a LIVE tour of the
   International Space Station trainers, Space Shuttle mockups, Underwater
   Neutral Buoyancy Labs and Centrifuges.
