http://www.ferc.gov/documents/documents.htm

   [skip.jpg] [btnrabou.jpg] Calendar of Events Page News & Reports Page
   Documents & Filing Page Commission Issuance Posting System Page Records
   & Information Management System Page Docket Sheets & Service Lists Page
   Corporate Officials Page Forms Page Electronic Filing Initiative Page
   Make an Electronic Filing Page Legal Matters Page Informational
   Resources Page

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons
   Gas main page
   Hydro main page
   Electric main page
   Oil main page

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
      Graphic Docket Sheets / Service Lists Link Graphic Site Map Link
                          Graphic Home Link Graphic


   Documents & Filing

      The Commission has several online systems described below which provide
      access to documents the Commission receives and documents the
      Commission issues. The online systems include:

      CIPS and RIMS
      Docket Sheets and Service Lists
      Corporate Officials or Other Persons to Receive Service
      Forms
      Electronic Filing at the Commission

   CIPS and RIMS  -    Back To Top

      Visitors have access to documents received by the Commission or issued
      by the Commission  through two online systems:
        * The Commission Issuance Posting System (CIPS) and
        * The Records Information Management System (RIMS)

      The Commission Issuance Posting System (CIPS) provides access to
      documents issued by the Commission, such as:
        * orders,
        * notices,
        * rulemakings,
        * decisions
        * news releases
        * Commission Agenda (published one week before Commission meetings)
        * List of Commission Actions Taken (published subsequent to
          Commission meetings)

      Documents in CIPS date from November 14, 1994.

      Document formats include:
        * ASCII and
        * WordPerfect.

      The Records and Information Management System (RIMS) is a database
      containing:
        * an index to all documents issued or received by the Commission
          since November 16, 1981;
        * images of documents submitted to and issued by the Commission since
          November 13, 1994
          These scanned images are available for viewing and printing online;
        * documents in electronic format filed through the Commission's web
          enabled filing mechanism since November 2000.

      For more, see RIMS Help and Information.

   Docket Sheets and Service Lists  -    Back To Top

      This system provides access to two separate lists:
        * The docket sheet contains a list of all activity within a docketed
          proceeding.  Access the docket sheet by searching on a docket
          number.
        * The service list provides parties to a docketed proceeding with the
          names and addresses of all other parties in the proceeding who must
          receive copies of every item filed in the proceeding.  To be added
          to a service list you must intervene in the proceeding in which you
          have an interest.  For more information, please see How to
          Intervene In Commission Proceedings.

   Corporate Officials or Other Persons to Receive Service  -    Back To Top

      This list of corporate officials or other persons to receive service is
      separate and apart from the official service list. The purpose of the
      list is to identify a person(s) to receive service of certain types of
      pleadings where a person to receive service has not otherwise been
      designated under the Commission's regulations.

   Forms  -    Back To Top

      Through its regulations, the Commission requires entities subject to
      its jurisdiction to file periodic forms and reports.  A complete
      listing of the forms and reports for the oil, gas, and electric
      industries is available by selecting this item from the menu at the
      left.  In addition to a list of the forms and reports you will find, as
      appropriate:
        * The section of the Commission's regulations that authorizes the
          report/form to be filed;
        * The OMB clearance number and expiration date of the form/report;
        * A copy of the blank form, if applicable;
        * The dates the forms are due to be filed;
        * A link to the data collected through the form/report, if available;
        * Filing instructions for submitting the form/report in electronic
          format, if applicable;
        * A brief description of the form/report.

      This listing is not a complete listing of all filing requirements of
      the Commission. This list focuses solely on the periodic forms and
      reports required by the Commission. For a complete listing of the
      Commission's filing requirements, you must refer to the Commission's
      regulations.  Do not rely solely on this listing to determine what
      forms/reports are required by the Commission.  For this, you must
      review the Commission's regulations.

   Electronic Filing at the Commission  -    Back To Top

        * Electronic Filing Initiative: explains the progress the Commission
          is making in its efforts to permit documents to be submitted to the
          Commission on line.
        * Make an electronic filing: submit various qualified documents to
          the Commission through the electronic filing mechanism.


   Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act - Enforcement
                                   Hotline
           Disclaimers - Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                          Updated: January 3, 2002
