http://www.fda.gov/fdac/features/2002/102_diab.html

                                             Email this Page
                                                To a Friend email a friend

   U.S. Food and Drug Administration
   FDA Consumer magazine
   January-February 2002
   Table of Contents


Diabetes: A Growing Public Health Concern

   By Carol Lewis

   Either you have it or you don't.
   That's the message that the American Diabetes Association (ADA) is
   driving home to millions of people who believe they may be "borderline
   diabetic," or that their "sugar is just a bit high." Convenient phrases
   and stereotypes such as these don't adequately describe one of the
   nation's leading causes of death and disability. In fact, they tend to
   only minimize problems associated with the disease. The bottom line? An
   accurate diagnosis is essential, because while a person can live a long
   and healthy life with diabetes, ignoring it or not taking it seriously
   can be deadly.

   "It's crucial to know when you have diabetes, to hear the diagnosis,
   and to pay attention to it," says ADA president Christopher D. Saudek,
   M.D.

   Saudek, who also heads up the diabetes center at Johns Hopkins
   University School of Medicine in Baltimore, says he's seen people deny
   their diabetes "almost to the point of death."

   Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease in which the pancreas produces
   too little or no insulin, impairing the body's ability to turn sugar
   into usable energy. Doctors often use the full name "diabetes
   mellitus," rather than "diabetes" alone, to distinguish this disorder
   from diabetes insipidus--a different disease altogether that is
   characterized by excess urination, but is unrelated to blood sugar.

   The number of people diagnosed with diabetes has increased more than
   sixfold from 1.6 million in 1958 to 10 million in 1997, according to
   the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta. Today,
   some 16 million people have the disease--making it a leading cause of
   death in the United States--yet 5 million don't know they have it. And
   nearly 800,000 new cases of diabetes are diagnosed each year.

   There is no cure for the disease, and the resulting health
   complications from poorly controlled diabetes are what make it so
   frightening. Consistently high blood sugar levels can, over time, lead
   to blindness, kidney failure, heart disease, limb amputations, and
   nerve damage. In fact, diabetes is the leading cause of new cases of
   blindness in adults between the ages of 20 and 74, and it accounts for
   40 percent of people who have kidney failure. Cardiovascular disease is
   2 to 4 times more common among people with diabetes, and is the leading
   cause of diabetes-related deaths. The risk of stroke is also 2 to 4
   times higher in people with diabetes, and 60 percent to 65 percent have
   high blood pressure.

   Despite these numbers, Saudek says diabetes can be very well-managed
   and that people can expect to live full and productive lives. Much of
   the treatment, however, depends largely on self-care practices. It's
   important, Saudek says, not only to target good behaviors, but also to
   consistently follow through with them.

   Monitoring blood sugar levels is a key component in treatment and
   management of the disease. Research has indicated that people who keep
   their blood sugar levels within individual target ranges set by their
   doctors stand a good chance of reducing the risk of complications from
   diabetes. Moreover, in many cases intensive lifestyle changes in diet
   and exercise actually can prevent, reduce or delay the risk of
   developing one type of the disease.

  Understanding Diabetes

   Blood sugar, or blood glucose, refers to the amount of sugar in the
   blood. The brain's only food is glucose; therefore, blood sugar must be
   maintained at a certain level for the brain to function normally. After
   eating any meal that contains carbohydrate or protein, a person's blood
   sugar normally rises, often to between 120 and 130 milligrams per
   deciliter (mg/dL), but generally not above 140 mg/dL. Every day, every
   hour, blood sugar levels vary, even in people who don't have diabetes.

   The Role of Insulin: picture of keys representing insulin are opening a
   door to allow glucose to get into a red blood cell
   Carbohydrates that we eat make our blood glucose (sugar) rise. To
   utilize the carbohydrates and lower the blood sugar, insulin opens the
   doors of the body's cells to glucose circulating in the blood. The
   glucose enters the cells and is used as the cells' fuel for energy.
   Insulin binds to a spot on the cell surface called a receptor. Likened
   to a lock and key, insulin is the key that opens up the lock (receptor)
   so that glucose can pass through the door into the cell. Using this
   analogy in type 1 diabetes, the keys have been stolen (no insulin is
   made by the pancreas). In type 2, the door won't open fully even with
   the right key (insulin resistance).
   (Source: Christopher D. Saudek, Richard R. Rubin, and Cynthia S. Shump.
   The Johns Hopkins Guide to Diabetes. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins
   University Press, 1997.)

   If the blood sugar level drops too low (hypoglycemia), a person's
   ability to reason can become impaired. When the blood sugar levels are
   too high (hyperglycemia), diabetes is diagnosed. Often the diagnosis is
   obvious to doctors because symptoms such as thirst, fatigue, weight
   loss, frequent urination, and persistent vaginal infections in women
   are evident. In the presence of these symptoms, diabetes can be
   confirmed by a random test of blood sugar, meaning that the blood is
   drawn at any time during the day, rather than specifically before
   eating breakfast. If the person is thirsty and urinating large amounts,
   the blood sugar usually will be well over 200 mg/dL, sometimes up in
   the 300s and 400s, or higher.

   But when the classic symptoms are not present, the criteria for
   diagnosing diabetes include a fasting blood glucose test. This means
   that the blood glucose is drawn at least 10 hours following a meal
   early in the morning, when it is usually at its lowest point in the
   day. A random blood glucose higher than 200 mg/dL and a fasting glucose
   of 125 mg/dL or more confirms a diagnosis of diabetes.

   To understand diabetes it's important to know something about insulin.
   Insulin is a hormone made in the pancreas, a large, elongated gland
   located behind the stomach. Its purpose is to "unlock" the cells of the
   body so that glucose carried by the blood can be used for energy. When
   you eat carbohydrates, your blood sugar rises. This increase triggers a
   release of insulin from cells in the pancreas called beta cells. The
   insulin "opens the doors" of the cells throughout the body to glucose.
   As glucose enters the cells, the blood sugar level falls back to
   normal--and the release of insulin ebbs until the next time protein or
   carbohydrates are eaten. The basic problem in type 1 diabetes is that
   the pancreas quits making insulin. In type 2, it either doesn't make
   enough or something interferes with the action of the insulin that is
   made. Someone with type 1 diabetes must inject replacement insulin to
   stay alive. Blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes usually are
   controlled by drugs that lower blood sugar as well as diet and
   exercise. Sometimes, injections of replacement insulin are needed to
   maintain normal blood sugars. The increasing emphasis on the importance
   of reducing weight and other lifestyle changes, combined with the
   latest advances in medical therapies, all have had dramatic effects on
   diabetes control (see "Diet, Exercise Delay Type 2 Diabetes,"
   September-October 2001 FDA Consumer).

   While it is fairly easy to diagnose, determining what type of diabetes
   a person has can be both challenging and critical. An accurate
   diagnosis matters because there are different ways to treat the
   different types of diabetes in order to stave off potential long-term
   complications.

  Type 1 Diabetes

   People with type 1 diabetes, such as 56-year-old Paul Keister of
   Arlington, Va., must inject replacement insulin to control the levels
   of glucose in their blood. Frequent tests (several times a day) using
   blood obtained from finger pricks are required to maintain good blood
   sugar control.

   In type 1 diabetes, the beta cells of the pancreas are destroyed by the
   body's immune system, which is responsible for recognizing and
   destroying outside invaders such as viruses or bacteria.

   In a process that is not well-understood, the body begins to think that
   its own pancreatic beta cells are "foreign" and sets off an
   "autoimmune" response that ends up destroying the cells. As a result,
   no insulin can be produced.

   Type 1 diabetes accounts for 5 percent to 10 percent of all people with
   the disease. This type is sometimes called juvenile diabetes because it
   most commonly appears initially in children or adolescents. However,
   people older than 30 also may develop the condition.

   Scientists believe that some environmental factor--possibly a viral
   infection or something related to nutrition--causes the immune system
   to destroy the insulin-producing cells. At 30 years old, Keister was
   diagnosed with type 1 diabetes following a stomach illness and after a
   stubborn tooth infection refused to go away.

   The resulting insulin deficiency is usually severe. Without injections
   of enough insulin to control increases in the blood sugar, diabetic
   ketoacidosis (coma and potentially death) can result. Today, type 1
   diabetes is treatable, and ketoacidosis preventable by taking
   sufficient amounts of insulin and by following dietary guidelines set
   by doctors and the ADA.

  Type 2 Diabetes

   Type 2 diabetes accounts for more than 90 percent of cases in the
   United States. In this type, the pancreas continues to produce insulin;
   however, the body develops resistance to its effects, resulting in a
   different kind of insulin deficiency than in type 1. Although the blood
   sugar rises in type 2 diabetes for different reasons than in type 1,
   the symptoms and potential complications are similar.

   Certain racial and ethnic groups, including blacks, American Indians,
   Mexican-Americans and other Hispanics, are at increased risk for
   getting the disease. And obesity is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes.
   Although doctors don't know exactly why, they say it's clear that the
   muscle cells (where most of the sugar breakdown occurs) of obese people
   are far less responsive to insulin than are muscle cells of thinner
   people. An obese person's pancreas has to put out large amounts of
   insulin to keep blood sugars normal. The likelihood of developing type
   2 diabetes in people who are at risk increases with age and weight
   gain.

   The typical person with type 2 diabetes is older, overweight, and often
   has a family history of diabetes. Dale Driscoll of Frederick, Md., was
   diagnosed with type 2 diabetes at about the same age that Paul Keister
   was diagnosed with type 1--an indication that age alone is not a
   reliable diagnostic criterion. And there is little evidence to suggest
   that diabetes runs in Driscoll's family.

   It's important, says Saudek, to know that some people don't fit neatly
   into either of these diagnostic "boxes." Like Driscoll, none of
   Keister's relatives on either parent's side has ever had diabetes, even
   though type 1 occurs in people with a genetic susceptibility. There are
   exceptions to the general rule that diabetes occurring in the young is
   type 1, and that diabetes occurring in older people is type 2.
   Likewise, taking insulin does not mean you have type 1 diabetes, just
   as obesity is not a sure diagnostic sign of type 2.

   Type 2 diabetes is nearing epidemic proportions in the United States,
   according to diabetes experts, due to an increased number of older
   Americans and a greater prevalence of obesity and sedentary lifestyles.

  Gestational Diabetes

   Between 3 percent and 5 percent of pregnant women in the United States
   develop gestational diabetes--elevated blood sugar due to certain
   hormones that occurs only during pregnancy. It is important to diagnose
   and treat gestational diabetes properly because it increases the risk
   of a baby growing larger than he or she would have been, and a large
   baby may have difficulty during delivery, or may be born by cesarean
   section.

   Keeping blood sugar within a normal range during the pregnancy reduces
   these risks. Women who experience gestational diabetes have a greater
   risk of developing diabetes later in life. One large study found that
   more than half of women who had gestational diabetes eventually
   developed type 2 diabetes. .

  Controlling Diabetes--Treatment Goals

   Daily monitoring and careful control of blood sugar levels are the most
   important steps that people with diabetes can take, says David G.
   Orloff, M.D., director of the FDA's division of metabolic and endocrine
   drugs. Over the past decade, "tight control" of blood sugar with a goal
   of achieving and maintaining near-normal levels has become the standard
   of care for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Maintaining normal levels
   is difficult, Orloff says, "but good glycemic control is key to
   preventing long-term complications." Another reason for good blood
   sugar control, Orloff adds, "is that it does make a difference in how
   people feel."

   Joanna K. Zawadzki, M.D., of the FDA's metabolic and endocrine drugs
   division, cautions that "just having a blood glucose monitor is not
   adequate follow-up to your diabetic treatment." People need better
   blood sugar control than just enough to avoid symptoms, she says.
   Keeping blood sugars always between 150 mg/dL and 200 mg/dL, for
   instance, may help a person avoid obvious symptoms, but may not be good
   enough to avoid the long-term complications. "Diabetes treatment is a
   complex approach that comprises a team of professionals, the patient,
   his or her family, and treatment and goals agreed upon by the team."
   Zawadzki adds, "Work with your doctor to come up with reasonable
   expectations for your individual treatment plan."

   People with type 1 diabetes need insulin from the time they are
   initially diagnosed, throughout life. Type 2 diabetes may often mean a
   prescribed regimen of diet and exercise in the initial phases of the
   disease. Frequently, however, and certainly over time, changes in diet
   and exercise aren't enough to keep blood sugar at near-normal levels.
   The next step for these people is taking a medicine that lowers the
   blood sugar. There are two basic kinds: insulin therapy and oral
   medications.

  Insulin Replacement Therapy

   Before the availability of insulin, treatments for people with type 1
   diabetes were unpleasant and often ineffective. A low-carbohydrate,
   semi-starvation diet and exercise were all doctors had to offer. People
   lost more and more weight, and many of them died within the first year
   of diagnosis. Like many scientific advances, the discovery of
   replacement insulin in the 1920s was nothing short of a miracle.

   Insulin lowers blood sugar by both increasing the removal of glucose
   from the blood and reducing the production of glucose by the liver. In
   type 1 diabetes, since there is virtually no insulin produced by the
   pancreas, people need insulin all the time--more at mealtimes to
   "cover" the carbohydrates and protein eaten, and less during other
   times to maintain as even a level as possible. In people with type 2
   diabetes, insulin injections sometimes are needed to supplement the
   amount produced by the pancreas.

   Insulin injections are given under the skin (subcutaneously) into the
   fat layer, usually in the arm, thigh, or abdomen. Insulin cannot be
   given by mouth because it is destroyed by digestive enzymes in the
   stomach. Small syringes with very thin needles make the injections
   nearly painless. In recent years, several external insulin pumps, which
   deliver insulin continuously through a thin, flexible tube placed under
   the skin, have been developed.

   There are more than 20 types of insulin available in four basic forms,
   each with a different time of onset and duration of action (see
   "Insulin Preparations."). The decision as to which insulin to choose is
   based on an individual's lifestyle, a physician's preference and
   experience, and the person's blood sugar levels. Among the criteria
   considered in choosing insulin are: how soon it starts working (onset),
   when it works the hardest (peak time), and how long it lasts in the
   body (duration).

  Oral Medications

   Pills to treat diabetes--antidiabetic agents--are used only in type 2
   treatment. Four general classes of drugs work in different ways to
   lower blood sugar (see "Oral Antidiabetes Medications."). There are
   some risks associated with the use of these drugs. For example,
   sulfonylureas, which stimulate the beta cells in the pancreas to
   release more insulin, can be associated with severe low blood sugar
   levels, particularly when the person has other medical problems or is
   taking other medications. And in order for them to work, a person's
   pancreas must be making at least some insulin. That is why oral
   medications will not work for the treatment of type 1 diabetes.

   For best results, oral medications must be taken regularly every day,
   not irregularly or started and stopped according to blood sugar. Since
   many dosages are available, a physician can change the dosage if blood
   sugars are running too high or too low. Many of these drugs can be used
   in combination with one another, but any change in their use should be
   done only at the direction of a health-care professional.

   Driscoll's doctor found that oral medications were not effective in
   controlling his blood sugar, and he replaced them with insulin
   injections. In retrospect, Driscoll says, "while the pills were easier
   to deal with, insulin has made the greatest difference in my life." In
   addition, Driscoll has shed 40 of the 100 pounds recommended by his
   doctor as part of his treatment plan.

  Organ Transplants

   Pancreas transplants and kidney transplants are options for people with
   type 1 diabetes, if they have kidney failure (about one-third of type 1
   patients). Since the 1970s, doctors have performed pancreas transplants
   along with kidney transplants in hopes of halting or reversing the
   complications of diabetes. The procedure has met with some success.
   Kidneys alone are transplanted to replace kidneys that have totally
   failed. Pancreas transplants may be done simultaneously or after kidney
   transplants, to try to "cure" diabetes. But pancreases are often not
   transplanted unless a kidney is also needed, says Saudek, "because the
   surgery is so major and the need for continuous immune suppression is
   more dangerous than taking insulin." Saudek adds that unavailability of
   transplantable kidneys and pancreases also is a factor.

   A kidney transplant for people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes can
   restore the body's ability to perform a number of crucial functions,
   including filtering wastes from the blood and controlling the body's
   fluid and chemical balance. Receiving a new pancreas at the same time
   may actually improve kidney survival. In addition, a new pancreas can
   improve blood sugar levels to normal, or close to it.

   Organ transplants aren't always successful. Besides the risk inherent
   in any major surgery, the body can reject the new organ days or even
   years after the transplant. Because of this, transplant recipients will
   likely need to take immunosuppressive drugs the rest of their lives.
   The drugs themselves carry significant health risks, such as cancer,
   but they work to prevent the immune system from rejecting the new
   organ.

   Another noteworthy therapeutic intervention, and one that Keister hopes
   to be considered for, is a procedure called islet cell transplantation.
   Researchers have known for some time that transplanting these
   insulin-producing cells may provide a possible cure for type 1
   diabetes. The process to date is still not perfected, but there is some
   evidence that researchers may be getting closer to their goal.

   "From the biologics perspective," says Philip Noguchi, M.D., director
   of the FDA's division of cellular and gene therapy, "emphasis on
   products for diabetes is clearly experimental at this time, but
   potentially very promising." In islet cell transplantation, doctors
   extract islet cells from the pancreas of a person who has recently died
   and then infuse them via a catheter into the liver of the person with
   diabetes. The liver instead of the pancreas is the location for the
   transplant because it is easier and less invasive to access the large
   vein in the liver than a pancreatic vein, and islet cells that grow in
   the liver closely mimic normal insulin secretion.

   Because the cells are very fragile, the procedure is fraught with
   problems. One of the biggest obstacles is the availability of fresh
   islet cells. There is a shortage of organ donors in the United States,
   and the supply of islet cells, like kidneys and pancreases, is limited.
   Another challenge is the ability to isolate the cells. It takes several
   donor pancreases to isolate enough islet cells for a single transplant.

   Still, "when it comes to trying new treatments," says Keister, "I'm
   going to push the envelope." Since his diabetes was detected prior to
   glucose meters, Keister says the greatest contribution he can give back
   to society is his "participation in new trials using the latest
   technology to learn more about the effects of treatment on the
   disease."

   While additional studies are underway to learn more about the long-term
   effects of islet cell transplantation, Noguchi says, "at the moment
   there are a number of well-established procedures for type 1 and type 2
   diabetes that let people live normal lives."

  Prognosis

   Saudek says it's a scientific fact that the outlook for people with
   diabetes can be excellent if the disease is well taken care of. Several
   major studies, including the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial
   Research Group, in which people with type 1 diabetes have been followed
   for years, compared the effects of standard and more intensive diabetes
   treatments on the development and progression of long-term
   complications. The more intensive treatments prevented or slowed
   diabetes complications.

   So, says Saudek, "It's doable. Taking advantage of what's available
   puts people in the best possible position to be strong and healthy when
   diabetes is ultimately cured."

Characteristics of Type 1 Diabetes

     * Age of onset under 40 years old, most common in children; some
       older people develop this type
     * Thin to normal body weight
     * Quick onset with thirst, frequent urination, and weight loss
       symptoms developing and worsening over days to weeks
     * Usually no known family history, but in rare cases there can be
     * No major risk factors; risk is increased if strong family history
       exists
     * Usually more than one shot daily of insulin treatment always needed
       to control diabetes
     * Difficult to keep fluctuating blood sugar in ideal range
     * Blood sugar is sensitive to small changes in diet, exercise, and
       insulin dose
     * Can be caused by a combination of heredity and exposure to some
       factor during life that triggers autoimmune destruction of the
       insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas

Characteristics of Type 2 Diabetes

     * Age of onset over 40 years old, most common in adults; some younger
       people develop this type
     * Overweight; occasionally occurs in people of normal weight
     * Usually slow onset with thirst, frequent urination, and weight loss
       symptoms developing over weeks to months, or even years
     * Can be "silent disease"
     * Usually runs in families
     * Treatment usually begins with diet and exercise, progressing to
       pills and later to insulin
     * Easier to control without fluctuating blood sugar range
     * Blood sugar may respond to weight loss, and/or change in diet and
       exercise; blood sugar may be less responsive to small changes in
       insulin dose
     * Can be caused by combination of heredity, insulin resistance, and
       deficiency of the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas

   --C.L.
     __________________________________________________________________

                            Advances at a Glance

     * GlucoWatch: Glucose monitoring device worn like a watch; detects
       blood glucose levels through the skin; must be calibrated to a
       glucose meter; approved March 2001. Cygnus Inc., Redwood City,
       Calif.
     * Sof-Tact: Semi-automated home blood glucose monitor that uses light
       suction vacuum to hold skin in place while integrated apparatus
       lances skin. Device automatically transfers small amount of blood
       to a biosensor strip, and blood glucose test result is delivered in
       20 seconds. Eliminates need for traditional finger-stick method;
       can be used on forearm or upper arm; approved November 2000. Abbott
       Laboratories, Abbott Park, Ill.
     * Continuous Glucose Monitoring System: Continuous measure of tissue
       glucose levels in adults with diabetes. Records levels at
       five-minute intervals for up to three days; information is then
       downloaded on computer for review by health-care practitioner; must
       be used in conjunction with finger-stick tests; approved June 1999.
       MiniMed Inc., Sylmar, Calif.
     * Lasette: Portable, battery-operated laser; means for drawing blood
       without using traditional lancets (small, razor-sharp devices for
       puncturing skin); for adults and children; approved December 1998.
       Cell Robotics International Inc., Albuquerque, N.M.
     * Q-103 Needle Management System: Used to remove certain hypodermic
       needles from insulin syringes and store them safely for later
       disposal; device holds up to 5000 removed needles; approved
       December 2000. QCare International LLC, Marietta, Ga.
     * Apligraf: Wound dressing that helps heal diabetic foot ulcers, open
       foot sores that can lead to amputation; approved June 2000.
       Organogenesis Inc., Canton, Mass.
     * Dermagraft: Skin substitute used to help in the wound closure of
       diabetic foot ulcers; helps replace and rebuild damaged tissue in
       diabetic foot ulcers; approved September 2001. Advanced Tissue
       Sciences, La Jolla, Calif.
     * Other devices: Over 100 glucose meters and several external insulin
       pumps approved in the last several years.
     __________________________________________________________________

For More Information

   American Diabetes Association
   Attn: Customer Service
   1701 N. Beauregard St.
   Alexandria, VA 22311
   1-800-DIABETES (1-800-342-2383)
   To contact your local affiliate, call
   1-888-DIABETES (1-888-342-2383)
   www.diabetes.org

   National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
   Division of Diabetes Translation
   P.O. Box 8728
   Silver Spring, MD 20910
   1-877-CDC-DIAB (1-877-232-3422)
   www.cdc.gov/diabetes/

   Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International
   120 Wall Street
   New York, NY 10005
   1-800-533-CURE (1-800-533-2873)
   www.jdfcure.org

   National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
   National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse
   1 Information Way
   Bethesda, MD 20892
   1-800-860-8747
   www.niddk.nih.gov/health/diabetes/diabetes.htm
     __________________________________________________________________

       Table of Contents | How to Subscribe | Back Issues | Editorial
                                  Questions

                        FDA/Office of Public Affairs
                    Web page created by clb 2001-DEC-26.
