http://www.noaa.gov/floods.html


   NOAA Banner
   Click here for NOAA home page.

   Click here for site map.

   Click here for contacts page.

   Click here to search NOAA sites.

   spacer Floods Banner Flood Picture Collage

   [ltg.jpg]

   • Current Hydrologic Conditions from NOAA's Hydrologic Information
   Center - flood summary, river/streamflow conditions, drought, soil
   moisture conditions, snow conditions, water supply outlooks,
   meteorological outlooks.

   • Flash Flood - Flash floods can strike any time and any place with
   little or no warning. In mountainous or flat terrain, distant rain may
   be channeled into gullies and ravines, turning a quiet streamside
   campsite or wash into a rampaging torrent in minutes.

   • North Central River Forecast Center Flash Flood Guidance -
   Terminology - Flash Flood Watch - Indicates that flash flooding is a
   possibility in or close to the watch area. Those in the affected area
   are urged to be ready to take action if a flash flood warning is issued
   or flooding is observed.

   • Flooding - Of all the tricks in mother nature's weather bag, the
   deadliest in the United States today is flooding and flash flooding.
   Over the past 30 years, flood waters have claimed an annual toll of
   nearly 140 lives in this country.

   • Natural Hazards - With Safety Rules For Tornadoes, Hurricanes,
   Floods, Flash Floods, Thunderstorms/Lightning, Winter Storms WATCH:
   Severe weather is possible within the designated watch area.

   • Billion Dollar Weather Disasters - NOAA's National Climatic Data
   Center is the "nation's scorekeeper" in terms of addressing severe
   weather events in their historical perspective.

   • National Weather Service Low-Water Crossing Flood Safety Video - The
   NWS, as a public service, provides a video (at nominal cost) to
   disseminate motorist safety information. The video points out the
   possibility of highway conditions occuring as a result of flooding or
   flash flooding that are often the cause of motorist fatalities and
   provides rules for safe operation of vehicles under these conditions.

   • Sea Grant HazNet - Floods - National Sea Grant Coastal Hazards
   Network Home page

   • Flash Flood Tip Sheet - NWS Brownsville - Flash Flood Tip Sheet.
   Precipitation In The Nation. Ever wonder how the National Weather
   Service forecasts precipitation-related events across the country? The
   Hydrometeorological Prediction Center (HPC) interagency disaster survey
   team led by NOAA found that complex river characteristics and
   limitations in current National Weather Service flood forecast methods
   were the primary cause of changes in forecasts of the flood crest at
   Grand Forks, N.D.,

   spacer

   line
   Click here for NOAA's weather page.
   [bdot.jpg] Organizations Button
   line

     * Hydrologic Information Center, National Weather Service
     * National Weather Service River Forecast Centers

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 11/28/01

   spacer
