http://www.nysd.uscourts.gov/rulings.htm

                                  CourtWeb
                     On-Line Rulings Information System


                           CourtWeb   [starwhit.gif]
                               On-Line Rulings

   CourtWeb provides information to the public on selected recent RULINGS*
   of those judges who have elected to make information available in this
   form. Participating judges are listed on the judges' selection menu of
   the rulings report. Participating courts are listed on the entry
   screen.



                           CourtWeb   [starwhit.gif]
                           Watch List Application

   Watch List is an additional service that allows the law firm or
   practitioner to enter a private list of cases pending in the Southern
   District, or in other participating federal courts. A Watch List
   account includes all the features of CourtWeb, plus e-mail notification
   and additional report options for cases on your Watch List.


   *Please Note:  CourtWeb consists solely of selected RULINGS of
   participating judges.
     * For docket information or copies of pleadings, please contact or
       visit the Clerk of Court's Records Management section.

     * To access docket information on your computer, visit the PACER
       Service Center on-line or call 1-800-676-6856 for more information.


                                  CourtWeb
                                  Articles


                     Participating courts are listed on the
                    CourtWeb entry screen. [particts.jpg]

                              THE THIRD BRANCH
                          Courts Quick to Discover
                           Internet's Capabilities
                                 Sept. 1998

                                  PC WORLD
                        Internet Opens Federal Courts
                                13 Jan. 1999

                                     ABA
                               LITIGATION NEWS
                            Litigators Benefit As
                          More Courts Open Websites
                                  May 1999


   AOL
  Users: The CourtWeb program will work best with a Netscape or Internet
         Explorer browser, version 3.0 or higher. Your AOL browser may not be
         compatible, particularly if you have an older version. Your computer
         may already have one of these other browsers loaded on it. If not, you
         can visit www.home.NETSCAPE.com/computing/download or www.MICROSOFT.com
         for information on downloading one of the Netscape or Microsoft
         browsers. For more information, visit the Help page.


   Note: Members of the public are advised that not all rulings, even by
         participating judges, are necessarily posted to CourtWeb. Moreover, the
         order or other paper filed with the Clerk of the Court is the official
         court document. In the event of any discrepancy between a report of a
         ruling on CourtWeb and the official court document, the official court
         document controls. Interested persons therefore are cautioned to rely
         only on the official court documents.


   If you select certain links on this page, you may be leaving the Web
   site of the USDC, SDNY.
   Some of the links on this page contain information created and
   maintained by other public and private organizations. These links are
   provided for the user's convenience. The USDC, SDNY does not control or
   guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness or completeness of this
   outside information. The inclusion of these links is not intended to
   reflect their importance, nor is it intended to endorse any views
   expressed, or products or services offered, on these outside sites, or
   the organizations sponsoring the sites.

   Help
   Home
