http://cio.doe.gov/bio_Cureton.htm

   Organization

   Mission & Functions

   Employee Directory

   CIO

   Architecture, Standards & Planning

   Cyber Security

   Business & Records Management

   Operations, Engineering, & Customer Service

   Special Projects

   Other Links

   Index

   Privacy/Security Notice

   Energy.gov

   Your.energy.gov

   Home

   Email CIO Webmaster

   Updated: 10/04/2001

   [USEMAP:so30pg2.gif]
   Acting CIO - Linda Cureton

                              Linda Y. Cureton
                      Acting Chief Information Officer

   Ms. Cureton came to the Department of Energy as the Associate Chief
   Information Officer (CIO) for Operations in October 2000. The Associate
   CIO for Operations is responsible for providing technical advice and
   infrastructure support to the CIO and other senior Departmental
   officials. These responsibilities include: providing network and
   telecommunications engineering and management services for the CIO and
   other Departmental entities; and providing operations planning,
   management, and operational support for computer systems,
   telecommunications systems, voice services, video telecommunications
   services, and Local and Wide Area Networks.

   Before coming to the Department of Energy, Ms. Cureton was the Deputy
   Director of the Computer Services Staff in the Justice Management
   Division at the Department of Justice. She was responsible for managing
   the Department of Justice Data Centers which supported mission critical
   computing requirements for the Drug Enforcement Administration, Bureau
   of Prisons, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

   Currently, as Acting Chief Information Officer, Ms Cureton reports to
   the Deputy Secretary of Energy and is responsible for the development
   and oversight of department-wide information technology management
   strategies, policies, and practices. These responsibilities include
   protection of information; strategic planning; standards in computing,
   networking, and security; establishment of system and information
   architectures; and corporate information technology, capital planning,
   and investment.

   Ms. Cureton earned a Bachelor of Science and Mathematics from Howard
   University in 1980, Master of Science in Applied Mathematics from Johns
   Hopkins University in 1994, and a Post-Master's Advanced Certificate in
   Applied Mathematics from Johns Hopkins University in 1996. She
   performed extensive research in numerical analysis and has been
   published in the "Journal of Sound and Vibration."
