http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/jan02/form0102.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine

                Forum—Speeding Up Breeding of Superior Plants

        That oatmeal you ate for breakfast this morning is loaded with
     healthful compounds known as antioxidants. They help to protect your
    body from damage caused by molecules known as free radicals. Oats, for
          instance, are rich in the antioxidants alpha-tocopherol and
                              alpha-tocotrienol.

         But what if tomorrow's oats could provide even more of these
      health-imparting compounds? That's a goal of ARS oat researchers at
     laboratories in several states. Aiding this research is an invaluable
       tool of modern biotechnology. Known as biomolecular markers, gene
    markers, or DNA markers, these pieces of genetic material are signposts
    or clues. They are telltale indicators that, for example, the specific
        oat plant under scrutiny indeed contains the gene or genes for
      producing impressively high levels of antioxidants or other prized
                                    traits.

        ARS scientists at Aberdeen, Idaho, and Madison, Wisconsin, are
        narrowing down the search for DNA markers linked to genes that
    unerringly indicate a high level of antioxidants in oats. Their studies
    suggest that superior oats for the future could have significantly more
    antioxidants than most conventional varieties. Similarly, they plan to
       use marker-assisted technology to greatly increase the amount of
    protein that oats can add to your breakfast. This work by scientists at
       the Aberdeen and Madison laboratories, done in collaboration with
     nutrition researchers, should greatly enhance the health benefits of
                        tomorrow's cereal quite a bit.

     The antioxidant and protein explorations demonstrate one of the most
    important benefits of DNA markers. The markers allow plant geneticists
     to move forward quickly even when the gene or genes that control the
    value-added traits have not yet been delineated. Relying on DNA markers
      sidesteps the immediate need to pinpoint the gene or genes for the
      prized traits. The DNA marker and the gene for the needed trait are
       always inherited together and so are called “reliably linked.”

     Capitalizing on DNA markers offers another important time-savings as
      well. In the past, breeders might have had to wait the full 3-month
      growing season to see if a newly bred oat plant had the traits they
      wanted. With DNA markers, however, the answer is already present in
     tissue that can be snipped from a tiny seedling only a few weeks old.
        DNA markers are detectable even in this early stage. This gives
    breeders the answer they need months earlier than previously possible.

    In the laboratory, a DNA marker appears as a distinctive band or bands
      among the many bands on a thin gel. In all, the bands look somewhat
    like a bar code on a box of cereal. Plants lacking the trait won't have
                       this distinctive marker pattern.

     Our search for DNA markers encompasses many other crops as well, from
     grains to fruits to vegetables. For instance, ARS rice researchers in
        Beaumont, Texas, and their Texas A&M University colleagues have
     pinpointed markers that determine texture of cooked rice. (See “Rice
    Breeding Gets Marker Assists,” Agricultural Research, December 2000, p.
     11.) These markers indicate rices that are ideal for products such as
     canned soups or instant rice mixes. The markers were the first to be
                 used to breed rice with tailor-made texture.

    In the cocoa-producing cacao plant, and in snap beans and wheat, we are
        hunting for other markers that identify plants with much-needed
        resistance to their worst natural enemies. We fully expect our
      experiments in Miami, Florida, to hasten discovery of cacao plants
       resistant to monilia pod rot, black pod, witches broom, and other
     costly fungal diseases. (See “Cacao and Marker-Assisted Selection,”
               Agricultural Research, August 2001, pp. 10–11.)

    We are also tracking down biomolecular markers of a devastating fungal
    disease of snap beans, Sclerotinia white mold. (See “Looking for Genes
      To Protect Beans,” Agricultural Research, March 2001, p. 21.) This
     disease costs U.S. growers of snap beans and other crops an estimated
        $18 million every year. Scientists at our Prosser, Washington,
                 laboratory are leading these investigations.

        We have also zeroed in on fungal diseases of wheat. Our team at
      Manhattan, Kansas, has already discovered markers for resistance to
     leaf rust in wheat. (See “Tagging New Leaf Rust Resistance Genes in
    Wheat,” Agricultural Research, May 2001, p. 19.) These markers will be
    important in developing lines with multiple leaf rust-resistance genes,
   or “gene pyramids.” This research will help breeders develop wheat with
                      durable resistance to this disease.

    Wheat plants also require multiple resistance genes to fend off attack
    by Karnal bunt. In this issue, we report this same team's finding of a
    marker for one such resistance gene. (See story on page 7.) Now, these
     scientists are pursuing the full complement of markers for protection
                             against Karnal bunt.

       These researchers plan to post their findings on the ARS-managed
        GRAINGENES database. Scientists worldwide use this fast-growing
      repository of new information about wheat genes and DNA markers to
    speed up the breeding of excellent wheat cultivars for the future. ARS
    is a world leader in the management of this and other genetic databases
                      for crops of agronomic importance.

                                 Judy St. John
                        Associate Deputy Administrator
                  Crop Production, Product Value, and Safety
                            National Program Staff
                             Beltsville, Maryland

        "Forum" was published in the January 2002 issue of Agricultural
                              Research magazine.

                    Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

                                 Bottom menu

          Home | News | Pubs| Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
               About ARS Info | Site map | Policies| E-mail us
