http://ffas.usda.gov/info/agexporter/2002/Jan/page4-7.pdf

   4 AgExporter Mexico Proves a Resilient, Robust Market for U.S. Exports
   For centuries, Mexico and the United States have had strong social,
   politi- cal, cultural and economic bonds. Implementation of the North
   Ameri- can Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and efforts toward a Free Trade
   Area of the Americas (FTAA) are important recent ini- tiatives bringing
   the countries closer to- gether. BU010492 But in addition to these
   agreements and other areas of cooperation between the fell from more
   than 1,000 in 1982 to fewer processing firms, from small family opera-
   governments, the two countries enjoy a free than 200 in 2000. Seaports,
   railroads, tele- tions to large firms that are among the most exchange
   of social and cultural influences, communications, electricity, natural
   gas dis- efficient and mechanized in the world. contributing to trade
   and economic growth. tribution and airports have been privatized The
   Mexican market for processed U.S. agricultural, fish and forest prod-
   and expanded. The nation continues to foods has been growing rapidly
   since 1995, uct exports to Mexico reached a record make an impressive
   recovery from the re- and its food processing industry output has $6.8
   billion in 2000. Sales are estimated to cession that began in 1994. In
   2000, its gross been expanding 5-10 percent per year in have set
   another record, $7.4 billion, in domestic product (GDP) totaled $915
   bil- recent years. But despite its impressive 2001. And market analysts
   think Mexico lion, and GDP growth reached 6.9 percent. growth and
   production variety, the Mexi- holds further opportunities, particularly
   in Mexico has a population of just over can food processing industry
   cannot sup- its food processing and retail sectors. 100 million and a
   workforce of nearly 40 ply all of the products demanded by million.
   About 22 million Mexicans can Mexican customers. The Economic Landscape
   regularly afford to purchase imported food The United States is
   Mexico's number Mexico has a free-market economy products. The younger
   generation is espe- one source of food ingredient imports. The
   increasingly dominated by the private sec- cially receptive to
   international influences United States dominates Mexican imports tor.
   Its number of state-owned enterprises and willing to purchase imports.
   About 40 percent of the workforce is made up of women, spurring demand
   for prepared meals and eating out. With its stable government and cur-
   rency, Mexico has retained its attraction for foreign investors, who
   put over $4 billion into the country's food and beverage pro- cessing
   industries in the past several years. A Burgeoning Processing Market
   Mexico is a major producer of agricul- tural goods, from bulk
   commodities to pro- cessing ingredients to consumer-ready AA002300
   items. The country has nearly 13,000 food AA003838 January 2002 5 of
   whey protein, food starches, tallow, ed- U.S. Exports to Mexico Have
   Shown a Steady Upward Trend Overall ible lactose, seasonings, natural
   and artifi- cial sweeteners, colorings, flavorings, dough $ Billion
   conditioners and beverage bases. Thicken- 7 Fish ers, texturizers,
   preservatives and spices also represent strong prospects. 6 Forest
   Retail Sales on an Upward Trend Consumer-oriented 5 Mexico's retail
   sector continues ex- panding, with domestic and foreign firms jockeying
   for position in a very competi- 4 tive market. The retail market was
   charac- Intermediate terized by moderate sales growth and strong 3
   competition in 2000, with total store sales up 10 percent from the year
   before. In 2000, U.S. exports of consumer-ori- 2 ented products to
   Mexico reached a record Bulk $2.7 billionroughly 70 percent of it ($1.9
   1 billion) in the retail sector. 0 Large retailers and convenience
   stores represent the best sales venues for U.S. ex- 1996 1997 1998 1999
   2000 porters. Importers, distributors and whole- salers continue to
   control the retail market, especially at the convenience and mom- Most
   Segments of Mexico's Food Industry Have Shown Double-Digit Growth*
   `n'-pop store level. Nevertheless, some major retailers Soft drinks 34%
   (Wal-Mart, Gigante, Soriana and Casa Ley) Other processed 45% have
   implemented direct purchasing for foods some of their departments, and
   so deal di- Dairy products 46% rectly with foreign suppliers. Other
   retail Bread products chains will likely adopt this strategy in the 39%
   next five years. Edible oils & fats -1% Net sales growth figures in
   2000 for the 1998 four leading retailers in Mexico were: Wal- Preserved
   foods 31% 1997 1996 Mart, with 11.7 percent; Gigante, 8.8 per- Meat
   products 34% 1995 cent; Soriana, also 8.8 percent; and Comercial
   Mexicana, 6.8 percent. All fig- Grains & other bulk products -9% ures
   exceed 1999 data. Sugar 12% In the next year or so, Wal-Mart plans to
   spend $464 million to open 62 new Cocoa, chocolate 48% & confectionery
   outlets. HEB, another large U.S. retailer, will 0 1 2 3 4 5 build 35
   outlets in northern Mexico. $ Billion Comercial Mexicana will invest
   $140 mil- *From 1995 to 1998. lion in its stores. 6 AgExporter
   Traditional retail stores (such as grocery The Intensity of Competition
   for Mexico's Food Processing Industry Varies stores and mom-`n'-pop
   shops), although a By Product CategoryCreating Opportunities U.S.
   Suppliers Can Target large market segment, are not yet a viable Product
   category option for imported products because of their comparatively
   small size and limited Salty snacks refrigeration. Operators often have
   only limited knowledge of imports, restricting Processed meats their
   outlets' potential for U.S. products. Edible oils With their large
   numbers of customers, convenience stores comprise the fastest- Dairy
   products growing segment of the retail sector. These outlets tend to be
   located in large and me- Confectionery & candy dium-size cities,
   usually in middle-income neighborhoods and business districts. Con-
   Canned goods venience stores typically offer longer hours and good
   service. The number of imported Cereals products they offer is growing,
   and has great potential for increased sales. Beverages Low Medium
   Medium high High Very high Market Advice and Words to the Wise
   Intensity of Competition Despite its many advantages, Mexico also
   presents considerable challenges as a market for U.S. agricultural
   exports. For Guatemala and Honduras. Mexico also has Mexican consumers
   are very price- example, the number of consumers who can a preferential
   trade agreement with Colom- conscious, so U.S. suppliers should first
   con- afford imports remains constrained by un- bia, and is pursuing
   agreements with other sider marketing their less expensive product
   equal income distribution, low wages, un- countries in Latin America
   and Asia. lines and presentations. Imports can be any- deremployment
   and limited advancement NAFTA secured preferential import where from 15
   to 40 percent more expen- opportunities. duties for many U.S. products.
   However, sive than similar local products. Moreover, the United States
   is not the now that Mexico has a free trade agree- The Mexican peso has
   been very stable only nation with which Mexico has strong ment with the
   EU, many products from that in its parity with the strong U.S. dollar,
   trade and treaty ties. In 2000, Mexico com- region also enjoy
   advantages. The number helping to keep U.S. products competitive.
   pleted free trade agreements with the Eu- of EU products on Mexican
   store shelves This equilibrium must continue if U.S. ropean Union (EU),
   Israel, El Salvador, is consequently climbing. companies are to
   increase their market pres- ence and sales. Retailers are awaiting the
   outcome of a Mexican government proposal to imple- ment a value-added
   tax of 15 percent on food products and pharmaceuticals. Many retailers
   fear such a tax would seriously re- strict consumer spending. However,
   in the long run, the measure could have a posi- tive effect on the
   economy, by providing the government with needed additional AA041932
   revenue. January 2002 7 Mexico requires that all labels for im-
   business precautions whenever dealing with ported processed products be
   in Spanish, potential representatives, including check- although they
   may be in another language ing references. An effective representative
   as well. If the label is in two languages, the must be able to ensure
   products are avail- Spanish print must be the same size as that able at
   points of sale, assist with paperwork of the other language.
   preparation and provide timely, thorough information on changes in
   import proce- Tips for Traders dures and documentation. The best way to
   understand the Mexi- U.S. suppliers should provide support can market
   is to visit it to assess both op- for in-store and media promotions to
   fa- portunities and competition. Consult miliarize customers with
   products. If pos- buyers, retailers, wholesalers, distributors sible,
   develop supplemental informational and other players to prepare an
   effective materials (such as promotional pamphlets) AA007425 entry
   strategy. in Spanish. I Local representation is essential to ex- As is
   the case in shipping to any coun- porting success. U.S. suppliers
   should at- For general market and retail sector infor- try, exporters
   must make sure their prod- tend or participate in trade shows and
   mation, or for assistance in identifying trade ucts meet Mexican
   quality standards and missions to find potential representatives
   contacts and developing marketing strategies for labeling requirements.
   Regulations and importers, sales agents, distributors or buy- Mexico,
   contact: controls for imported products sometimes ers. Contacting a
   local distributor can be a change without advance notice, causing
   useful first step toward market entry. Agricultural Trade Office
   problems and delays for exporters. U.S. companies should take normal
   Mexico City, Mexico Tel.: (011-52-5) 280-5281 Fax: (011-52-5) 281-6093
   Top U.S. Earners in the Mexican Market E-mail: atomexico@fas.usda.gov
   Coarse grains Office of Agricultural Affairs Red meats* U.S. Embassy,
   Mexico City, Mexico Tel.: (011-52-5) 080-2847 Soybeans Fax: (011-52-5)
   080-2130 E-mail: agmexico@fas.usda.gov Processed fruits & vegetables
   Poultry meats This story is based on FAS Reports Fresh fruits 2000
   MX1080 and MX1099. To find 1999 1998 them on the Web, start at Wheat
   www.fas.usda.gov, select Snacks** Attaché Reports and fol- low the
   prompts. Dairy products For details on promotion and mar- keting
   opportunities for the Mexican 0 200 400 600 800 1000 $ Million market
   in the next year or so, see *Fresh, chilled and frozen. **Excluding
   nuts. MX1127.
