http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERE/NE020189.HTML

   NOAA logo     NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE         Operations Manual
                                                   SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND
   20910    Letter 1-89


   Date of Issue: January 23, 1989         Effective Date: January 23,
   1989

   In Reply Refer To: W/OH22             File With: E-02

   Subject: Coordination of Changes in Values of Critical Gage Height or
   the Zero Elevation of River Gages

   Reference(s): WSOM Chapter E-02, issuance 80-15, dated September 4,
   1980

                           Cancels: OML 19-74 dated June 18, 1974, filed
   with E-02

   Background

   The original setting of the river gage datum when a gaging station is
   established is thought of as being somewhat "arbitrary" but the U.S.
   Geological Survey follows certain general rules.

   The original river gage datum is set at the time of gage installation,
   and attempts are made to maintain that datum in the future so that: (1)
   the gage height record will be compatible in the future as well as in
   the past, (2) the datum will ideally never have to be changed, and (3)
   negative readings will seldom occur. Ideally, a gage would read "0" at
   zero flow, but since this might result in negative readings if the
   channel degrades, the gage is normally set to read greater than "0" at
   zero flow. Attempts are also made to establish gaging stations where
   there is a stable, structurally sound control - either natural (e.g., a
   ledge rock extending across the stream) or manmade (e.g., a bridge).

   Introduction

   Over the years, the general public becomes familiar with the effects of
   local rivers on their property, usually in terms of river stage in
   relation to the flood stage. The public is slow to become acquainted
   with or remember changes in the zero datum and/or flood stage of
   reference gages. We have found that misunderstandings occur with such
   changes, and this generally seems to happen during a flood of vital
   concern to a community. NWS policy has been and shall continue to be
   one of extreme caution in changing reference elevations. At the same
   time, the NWS must be alert to changing hydrologic and economic
   conditions in the vicinity of reference gages.

   Definitions

   The NWS definitions of various critical stages are as follows.

   Bankfull stage - the elevation, or stage, of the lowest natural bank of
   a stream within the reach in which the water elevation is measured. The
   term "lowest bank" is, however, not intended to mean an unusually low
   place or a break in the natural bank through which the water inundates
   a small area.

   Flood stage - the elevation, or stage, at which overflow of the natural
   banks of a stream begins to cause damage or begins to present a
   potential flood-damage hazard in the reach in which the elevation is
   measured.

   The term "warning stage" shall not be used as it may be confused with
   flood warnings (AFOS products cccFLWxxx) themselves. "Caution Stage"
   and "Alert Stage" (refer to WSOM E-90) are permissible critical gage
   height terms to establish for notifying need-to-know officials. "Danger
   stage" may be used with regard to leveed systems when defined and
   authorized by regional headquarters. Where "flood stage" is used for a
   leveed reach, public releases for periods when the river is above flood
   stage require special wording to clarify the true conditions. As an
   example, the statement "Levees protect ANYTOWN up to a stage of 30
   feet" could be used.

   Other important and useful definitions include:

   Reach - (1) The length of a channel for which a single gage affords a
   satisfactory measure of the stage and discharge. (2) The length of a
   channel reasonably uniform with respect to discharge, depth, area, and
   slope.

   River Gage Datum - the elevation above a chosen datum corresponding to
   the zero reading of the river gage. The "chosen datum" is most often
   the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD of 1929). To
   establish a more precise nomenclature, the terms "NGVD" or "NGVD of
   1929" are used in place of "Sea Level Datum of 1929" or "mean sea
   level." "River Gage Datum" is also known as "Gage Datum," "Zero Datum,"
   and "River Gage Zero."

   Need for Changes

   Changes in river gage datum become necessary for reasons which include
   elimination of below-zero readings, channel changes, construction,
   and/or station relocation. Changes in flood stage may be required
   because of further encroachment on areas subject to flooding,
   flood-control construction, etc.

   Changes in river gage zero and the official flood stage are to be made
   only when such changes are essential. Publications made by other
   agencies may be affected if changes are made. Datum changes for U.S.
   Geological Survey gages are, of course, the responsibility of the U.S.
   Geological Survey with full coordination taking place.

   Coordination of Changes

   Any NWS-proposed change in river gage zero or flood stage shall be
   fully coordinated and authorized by regional headquarters. Full
   coordination shall be accomplished between the appropriate Hydrologic
   Service Area office, River Forecast Center, U.S. Geological Survey,
   Corps of Engineers, and other concerned Federal, state, and local
   offices. Upon approval of the proposed change by regional headquarters,
   revised WS Form E-19a shall be submitted to regional headquarters with
   copies to the appropriate River Forecast Center(s) and to the Office of
   Hydrology, Hydrologic Operations Division, Hydrologic Services Branch
   (W/OH22). Concurrently, official news releases by the local Hydrologic
   Service Area offices are both appropriate and helpful to the general
   public.



   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
     for Weather Services
