http://materials.pnl.gov/HowToCollaborate.htm

                         |Security and Privacy Statement|

                       Pacific Northwest National Laboratory


   Collaborate



          CRADAs
   Tech Transfer

                Technology Transfer Mechanisms and Their Applications



   Mechanism Definition Where Best Used Example
   Information Exchange The informal and free exchange of information
   through publications, presentations, briefings, workshops, and visits
   designed to inform potential industry partners about the R&D activities
   and capabilities of PNL and/or determine their needs When potential
   industry partners need to obtain initial information on PNL activities
   and capabilities A visit to PNL by a major industrial company resulted
   in the identification of a technology of high interest to them that was
   not within the original scope of their visit. A CRADA to jointly
   develop the technology is currently being negotiated.
   Technical Assistance Short-duration efforts (fewer than 40 person
   hours) focused on timely assistance to companies, local governments or
   trade organizations with specific technical problems. Such assistance
   is typically provided without a formal contract with the organization
   receiving assistance. To assist small or medium-sized businesses that
   need technical assistance with unique problems A spokane-based company
   which manufactures wholesale

   Mechanical parts (bolts, screws, etc.) was assisted in identifying
   methods for cadmiun waste minimizing, waste stream processing, and
   disposal.
   Use of Facilities Access to unique PNL equipment or facilities, some of
   which may be DOE "user" facilities When industry need are best met
   through use of a specialized facility or equipment available at the
   laboratory During early development, PNL used a set of laboratory
   equipment to test and shape a titanium-based composite used in numerous
   products (from wheelchairs to golf clubs) for a local company.
   Personnel Exchanges Exchanges (usually less than a year) of personnel
   between PNL and industry. PNL personnel may be assigned to industry
   facilities and/or industry may assign personnel to a PNL facility. When
   PNL and an external partner have an interest in learning about each
   other and sharing specific skills and expertise. The level-of-effort
   and contractual obligations associated with staff exchanges are
   typically less than those for CRADAs. PNL participated in a staff
   exchange with a Kennewick, WA small business to assess and begin
   initial development of in-line inspection tools for corrosion control.
   Cooperative Research and Development Agreements Cooperative projects,
   performed under a CRADA or other type of cooperative agreement, that
   are supported by resource contributions from both DOE and industry and
   have a specific technical development focus with planned outcomes. When
   PNL, DOE and industry have mutual interest in the development of a
   technology area and cost sharing by the partners is appropriate. A
   CRADA with a small company resulted in the development of a continuous
   processing device for ceramic powders.
   Major Industry Partnership Integrated cooperative research programs
   involving DOE, its laboratories, and a group of U.S. companies with
   common research interests and needs. The companies are often organized
   as R&D consortia. A large number of CRADA projects or other technology
   transfer activities may be conducted within the framework of a major
   industry partnership. When a group of companies is sufficiently
   organized with a common research agenda, a coordinated means to
   accomplish this agenda, and needs that match the capabilities of the
   DOE laboratories The development of the AMTEX partnership between DOE
   and the textile industry was coordinated by PNL and is now nearing
   implementation of an integrated, cooperative research agenda.
   Reimbursable Work for Industry Research and development projects and
   technical assistance efforts that are fully-funded by private industry.
   At PNL, such work may be contracted for through the 1831 Use Permit or
   through the industrial Work For Others process. When industry has an
   immediate need for services, it desires a high degree of control over
   the scope of services and information provided, and it is willing and
   able to pay for the cost of service. The contractual mechanism selected
   for use to deliver these services will depend upon the needs of the
   specific industry client. PNL has assisted a small Arkansas-based
   company in commercializing a suite of waste treatment technologies
   through a series of R&D projects.
   Licensing Transfer of rights to use inventions or copyrighted software
   When PNL has unique legal rights to a technology or software that fits
   an industrial partner’s business strategy and the partner wants to
   develop and commercialize the product/process. The potential
   biobarriers technology was licensed to three different companies for
   field-of-use applications in sewer lines, drip irrigation systems, and
   general barriers to unwanted root growth.
   Spinoff Company Initiation of a new company or a new branch of a
   existing company, which may involve direct participation by PNL staff
   in the formation and operation of the new company. When a technology
   can best be commercialized as a stand-alone entity, and industry
   partners and/or PNL staff are involved in the strategy, development and
   implementation for the new company. The genesis of what is now Siemens
   Power Company-Nuclear Division was initiated through the spinoff and
   initial transfer of almost 50 PNL employees.




      Home Feedback Site Map Search

   Send mail to wendy@pnl.gov with questions or comments about this web site.
   Copyright © 1998 Materials Sciences
   Last modified: February 06, 2001
