http://www.neh.gov/news/humanities/2002-01/poets.html

                      Of Poets, Prophets, and Politics

                              By Rachel Galvin

   In the town of Al-Basrah in Iraq, poets gather every year for a poetry
             festival, just as they did fourteen centuries ago.

      In Cairo every Friday, people come together at the shrine of Ibn
    al-Farid, a thirteenth-century Sufi poet, to hear his poems read. And
     in Yemen, poetry is still vital for negotiating and settling tribal
                                  disputes.

      While Westerners may be surprised by the notion that poetry is an
   effective way to convey a political message, Bassam Frangieh says it is
                      an integral part of Arab culture.

     In every Arab country every day, poets appear on television, on the
    radio, or in the newspaper. Every single newspaper in the Arab world
     every day has poetry -- this is nothing new, says Frangieh, who is
    professor of Arabic at Yale University. Poetry is the essence of Arab
                                  culture.

      The tradition extends back hundreds of years before the advent of
     Islam. Frangieh describes an ancient practice: Once a year, all the
     tribes would meet in a place next to Mecca called Souk Ukaz, or the
    market of Ukaz. Poets from all over Arabia would come to compete and
    recite their poems in front of judges. These judges were either poets
    themselves or critics. Each year the festivals winning poem would be
    transcribed in golden letters and hung on the door of Kabah in Mecca
     for the whole year. It was like the Nobel Prize of ancient Arabia.

   From Algeria to Yemen, Arabic is the official language of more than two
   dozen nations with disparate histories and peoples. An Arabic poet is a
      poet who writes in Arabic, whatever his race or nation may be in
   contemporary terms, says Roger Allen, who taught an NEH summer seminar
    on Arabic literature at the University of Pennsylvania. He notes that
   Westerners often see Arab and Muslim as the same term. To be sure, the
   majority of Arabs are Muslims, but there are significant communities of
    Arabs who are not -- the Maronites of Lebanon and the Copts of Egypt,
    for example. Arabs make up less than 10 percent of the population of
                       one billion Muslims worldwide.

    An affinity for poetic language is deeply rooted in Arab culture, and
     historically, the poet has held a position of high esteem. The Arab
     poet was the voice of his tribe, its defender and representative --
   above all, its provocative force, says Frangieh. The tribes took their
     name from the camel-herding Bedouins who called themselves arab, or
             people from the land of Arbi in the Syrian desert.

     Nomadic tribes relied on poets to recount news and offer political
    commentary, and to keep an oral record of tribal history -- triumphs,
   defeats, marriages, and deaths were recorded in verse. The poem itself
    reflects the history of the tribe -- the principles, the values, the
    customs, the traditions, Frangieh explains. You want to know anything
    about the Arabic people -- about their history, tradition, genealogy,
                battles, love affairs -- you turn to poetry.

   Poems were also used to convey messages, as in this sixth-century poem
                              by al-Muraqqish.

         O camel-rider, whoever thou mayst
     be, bear this message, if thou lightest on
     them, to Anas son of Sad, and Harmalah:
         Great will be the virtue of you twain
     and your father, if the man of Ghufailah
     escapes being slain!

    There is an incredibly rich tradition of poetry from the pre-Islamic
   period, with many different topics and genres: panegyrics, love poems,
   elegies, eulogies, says Allen. There is a shorter poem of occasion, an
   elegy, for example, on the death of a heroa genre in which women poets
    were particularly strong. And then a much more elaborate polythematic
   poem, a liturgy involving many different sections: a tribal celebration
   called a qasidah. The qasidah describes a rite of passage in which the
    poet leaves his familiar surroundings, encounters a host of dangers,
   and returns to his tribe, celebrating his membership in the community.
    The poem contains detailed descriptions of the desert, the wildlife,
      and the riding animal of the poet -- a horse, or more commonly, a
       camel. Each qasidah lampoons the tribes enemies and praises its
   leaders. In an eighth-century poem by al-Mahdi, the poet eulogizes his
                     patron, acknowledging his largesse.

         While not every wealthy personage shows
     munificence, by my life Ibn Barmak has shown
     generosity toward me.
         I have used my poems to milk his palms, and
     they have flowed copiously like rain-clouds in a
     thunderstorm.

       These poems were recited according to very sophisticated metric
   patterns and very refined language, says Frangieh. They are long poems,
    ranging between one and two hundred verses. Each line of the poem has
     the same number of stressed syllables, and each adheres to the same
                                rhyme scheme.

    The role of the professionally trained poet was to defend the tribes
      honor, articulate its identity, and hold verbal duels with other
        tribes. The poet, or shair, able to craft and perform verbal
      legerdemains was thought to possess magical powers and was highly
    regarded for his talent. The Arabic word shair means somebody with a
   sense of the unseen, so the poet is somebody who feels or senses, says
                                   Allen.

    There must be something that blends mundane meaning and mundane forms
   into something that captivates and moves, says Ghazi al-Gosaibi, who is
     a poet and the Saudi Arabian ambassador to Britain. The pre-Islamic
   Arabs had no doubt whatsoever about this X factor. They believed it was
                                   magic.

     Each master poet was surrounded by his rawis, or group of reciters.
   When the poet composed a new poem, the rawis committed it to memory and
     the next day rode their camels or horses across Arabia to the other
    tribes to brag about their poet, says Frangieh. He was the political
     spokesperson of the tribe and predicted the future like a prophet.

   With the revelation of the Quran in 622 A.D. and the founding of Islam,
    Arabia underwent radical changes. Previously nomadic communities were
    unified into courts run by caliphs, the civil and religious heads of
     the Muslim state. Systems of trade and taxation were established, a
     confederated army replaced the tribal one, and a centralized empire
   formed. By the late ninth century, Islam had become the principal faith
   of a dominion that extended from the western Mediterranean into Central
        Asia. The written record of the Quran, meaning recitation or
    recitations, led to a shift from the oral tradition to a written one,
   which had a dramatic impact on the culture from literary composition to
                              law to philology.

   The written record of the Quran was an amazingly important event in the
    history of the Middle East, because it required an enormous amount of
     research on language and genealogy, and the development of critical
    methods for assessing the accuracy of reports. All that went into the
      formulation of Islamic law and theology, but also into poetry and
                       literary criticism, says Allen.

   Poets retained their prominence under the new social order. The prophet
    Muhammad had his own personal poet, known as shuara al-rasul, or the
    poet of the prophet. Caliphs and sultans -- such as the sultan Harun
      ar-Rashid, the eighth-century caliph of Baghdad who served as the
    inspiration for The Thousand and One Nights -- had their own coteries
          of poets who recited verses each night at their palaces.

   In the Islamic caliphal period, poets would go in search of patronage.
   The advent of the caliphate changed the status of the poet from tribal
     representative to a court poet who often traveled, Allen explains.

       The master poet of the Arabs, comparable to English literatures
   Shakespeare, is the tenth-century court poet al-Mutanabbi, who composed
   classical verses glorifying Islamic rulers and their deeds. These lines
    are from his poem dedicated to Sayf al-dawlah on the occasion of his
                 victory against the Byzantines in 954 A.D.

    Resolutions come in accordance with the worth of the resolute; noble
            deeds come in accordance with the worth of the noble.

   In the eyes of the puny, puny deeds seem important; in the eyes of the
                    important, important deeds seem puny.

   Al-Mutanabbi was conscious of his power. In another poem, he admonishes
   a king that unless al-Mutanabbi composes a poem about his feats, future
                  generations will not remember the ruler.

    A constant in the history of Arabic poetry is its role as a political
    tool. In Yemen, for instance, poetry is still integral to the process
    of settling tribal disputes. Stephen Caton, professor of anthropology
     at Harvard University, has spent two decades studying Yemeni tribal
   society. Poetry is a part of the general political discourse in tribal
   society -- and tribal societies are still a very important part of the
     nation-state in the Middle East, as in Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Jordan,
    Iraq, he says. If youre going to understand the political discussion
    thats going on in the public sphere, you have to be able to tap into
                                that poetry.

   In Yemen, a sheikh mediating a dispute will often call the disagreeing
    parties together along with uninvolved delegations from other tribes.
      As the delegations arrive at the meeting place, they voice their
      opinions and moral stances in poetry. Listening to the poems, the
    sheikh assesses whether or not there is a consensus on the issue and
   determines the differences of opinion. At various points in the dispute
     mediation, people can weigh in with the moral force of a poem very
   effectively, says Caton. Arab poetry shows us that art and politics are
             not divorced and that neither is poetry and power.

    In places like Yemen, there is a cultural conviction that poetry has
   something to offer politics -- that political action is not only about
    using brute force, its about persuading someone, convincing them that
      what you say is moral and just. They are persuaded in part by the
                beauty of the language to think so, he adds.

   Not just the politically engaged poem, but other poetic traditions have
        also been handed down through time, interpreted anew by each
     generation. Poems extolling wine or dedicated to the poets beloved
   comprise two categories that have endured from pre-Islamic times. These
   lines from al-Asha, a traveling bard of the seventh century, are taken
                         from one of his wine poems.

         I have gone to the tavern in the morning,
     with a bold, brazen, bawdy butcher in my tracks. . .
         Reclining I have outdone my rivals for a
     sprig of sweet-basil and a dry wine from a moist jug.
         As long as it is available, they only wake up
     to yell Give me more after the first and second
     draft.

    A celebrated author of the wine poem, the caliph al-Walid ibn Yazid,
        wrote a poem in the eighth century that displays the primary
     characteristics of the genre: the wine-drinker challenges fate and
              compares the bottle of wine to a beautiful woman.

       Cast off hidden cares with frivolity; thwart
     fate by enjoying the daughter of the grape. . .
       How I long to drink from a maid of noble
     descent on her wedding-day,
       Resplendent in her jewels, wondrous to
     behold,
       As though her glass contained a firebrand
     gleaming into the watchers eye.

     After the establishment of Islam, sufis, or Muslim mystics, adapted
   ancient poetic forms such as the wine poem and the love poem to express
    spirituality. Sufism is a search for a path whereby the believer can
    cancel concerns with the daily world -- the mundane -- and clear the
    decks for a closer walk with God, says Allen. To do that, the mystic
    needs to enter a state of changed consciousness achieved a number of
                       ways, such as through chanting.

   Sufi poetry is highly allegorical. At times it employs the language of
   love poetry to convey a love of God and desire for mystical union, and
       others, the vocabulary of wine poetry to express the process of
    attaining a contemplative state. In a sufi wine poem, the wine pourer
    represents Muhammad, who facilitates the attainment of transcendence.
   Sufi poetry reads disarmingly like love and wine poetry, in particular
         wine poetry, unless you are aware of the codes, says Allen.

    One of the most famous sufi poets, Ibn al-Farid, begins his wine ode
                              with these lines.

     In memory of the beloved we drank a wine;
     we were drunk with it before creation of the vine.

     The full moon its glass, the wine a sun circled by a crescent;
     When it is mixed, how many stars appear!

     If not for its bouquet, I would not have found its tavern;
     If not for its flashing gleam, how could
     imagination picture it?

        Whereas poets under Islam recast their language in a way that
   maintained traditional poetic forms, contact with the West caused a sea
      change in every aspect of Arabic poetry. Beginning with Napoleons
       conquest of Egypt in 1798, the Arab world underwent a period of
    colonization and struggle for self-determination, culminating in the
   independence movements of the 1950s and 1960s. These events stimulated
     nationalism and introduced the notion of modernism -- a social and
   artistic rupture with the past and a quest for new forms of expression.
     Key texts from the Western canon were translated into Arabic in the
    1940s and had an enormous impact, such as Jean-Paul Sartres essay on
    artistic creation and moral activity, What Is Literature?, Sir James
   Fraziers anthropological study of religion, The Golden Bough, and T.S.
    Eliots poem The Waste Land, which portrays the disillusionment caused
                by World War I and the search for salvation.

     After having held a shamanic role for centuries, poets are for hire
    throughout the caliphate period, which continues for a very long time
      -- to the end of the Second World War. The big break occurs with
    independence, when the state requires poets to become participants in
    the process of social change, says Allen. In a sense, the concept of
      nation takes over for the notion of the court and Islamic ruler.

    The New Arabic Poetic Verse movement started in Baghdad in 1948, says
   Frangieh. Poets began talking about social and national themes. Poetry
   contributed a great deal to the independence of Arab states between the
     two World Wars, just as it helped spread a new consciousness in the
   late nineteenth century in the effort to get rid of the Ottoman Empire.
      In the battle of social and political change, poetry is a weapon.

      The poetry written in the Arab world in the 1950s was completely
      different from all that had preceded it. Inspired in part by T.S.
     Eliots The Waste Land, writers turned away from romanticism such as
    that found in the poems of Lebanese writer Khalil Gibran. During the
   struggle for independence, commitment poetry or socially engaged poetry
    -- a translation of Sartres engagement -- came to the fore. Breaking
       entirely with received forms, the poetry of the 1950s possesses
        modernist characteristics: stylistically, it moves away from
     traditional tropes and tone, and thematically, it focuses on topics
                    never before considered appropriate.

   Iraqi Abdul Wahab al-Bayati is a renowned contemporary poet who helped
     lead the free verse movement in the late 1940s and 1950s. Jailed in
   1953 for his poems criticizing the Iraqi monarchy, al-Bayati was forced
   to flee the country not long after and continued writing and publishing
   in exile. I felt at that time that I should write to defend freedom and
             social justice for the poor, al-Bayati once wrote.

     His 1954 poem Village Market opens with a series of linked images.

     The sun, emaciated donkeys, flies,
     And a soldiers old boots
     Pass from hand to hand,
     And a peasant stares into the void:
     At the beginning of next year,
     My hands will surely fill with coins,
     And I shall buy these boots.

   Al-Bayatis poem has a title, unlike pre-modern Arabic poems, which were
      identified either by their rhyme or by the category to which they
    belonged -- for instance, love poem, hunt poem, or panegyric. In the
     pre-modern court environment, a village market is just not a decent
    subject with which any decent poet would dirty his hands, says Allen,
      who often assigns the poem to his students as an example of Arab
      modernism. This poem begins with a montage of incredibly un-Arab,
    un-classical ideas . . . . If you go back to the classical poem where
    you have this nostalgia about the desert encampment, and portraits of
     the desert animals, and a remembrance of the lover who is no longer
              there, there could hardly be a greater contrast.

   Al-Bayati writes, I understand commitment to be that the poet/artist is
      demanded to his depth to be burned with others when he sees them
     burning and not to stand on the other side of the bank absorbed in
    prayer. Other poets through-out the Arab world have embraced the idea
    of commitment: Iraqi al-Sayyab, Syrians al-Qabbani and Adunis (nom de
        plume of Ali Ahmad Said), Saudi Arabian Ghazi al-Gosaibi, and
                        Palestinian Mahmoud Darwish.

   Just as other art forms, poetry has adapted to modern technology. Caton
    says poets in Yemen in particular have made use of tape recorders to
   perpetuate the oral tradition. These recordings are spread out all over
    the country in stereo stores that you can find in almost every little
   town in the country, he says. Poetry is pervasive -- its very much part
    of the fabric of ordinary life in Yemeni society. Poems are composed
   about local issues having to do with Yemen or the Arabian Peninsula and
     about village affairs as well. Its a world, though tribal, which is
                      broadly attuned to world events.

    Caton compares the Yemeni attitude toward poetry to the Western one,
     pointing out that when Western poets have tried to write in the way
     that a poet from Yemen would, they would be criticized for writing
    polemical doggerel. In Yemen there are stylized conventions that are
   culturally recognized as tribal, which every state must to some extent
    speak in if its to be heard and to be taken seriously. The history of
      modern poetry in Europe and in the United States has been one of
   marginalizing political poetry. Here it is the sentiment that wells out
   of the private self, not the public selfexcept in moments of war, lets
   say, or national crisis. Its the confessional, lyrical mode, as opposed
      to the political, analytical one, which is privileged in Western
                                   poetry.

    Frangieh explains the centrality of poetry in Arab life, saying, Arab
    people, ordinary people, have something inside them that they cannot
    express: the poet expresses what the people cannot express. They find
    psychological consolation and derive spiritual strength from poetry.
      For Arabs, poetry has never been without political and spiritual
                                  content.

     Poetry is the soul of the Arabs, says Ghazi al-Gosaibi. That is no
       poetic exaggeration: whatever troubles that soul is reflected,
    magically, in the poetry. Reading Arabic poetry, therefore, is not an
              idle exercise. It is a trip inside the Arab soul.

   Since 1995, the University of Pennsylvania has received $228,555 in NEH
     funds to support Roger Allens Summer Seminar on Arabic literature.
     __________________________________________________________________

                     Humanities, January/February 2002
