http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/about.html

      USDA Forest Service. Activate this link to the national web site.

               [Imagemap]: Button images that serve as links.

 Forest Service shield, which is the agency logo that links to our national
  site. [Pacific Southwest Region Banner]: Pacific Southwest in gold color
        overlaying Region in blue, which links to the regional site.

        [--- National Forests in California ---] [BUTTON Input] (not
                               implemented)___

                         Home > About Us

                                        Find a Forest



                            Recreation Activities

                                    Maps

                              Fire Information

                             Resource Management

                                   Safety

                              Permits & Passes

   About Us

      The federal government manages nearly half of the total 100 million
      acres in California. Eighteen national forests make up 20 million acres
      of this land, which is located in the North Coast, Cascade, and Sierra
      Nevada ranges and from Big Sur to the Mexican border in the south Coast
      range.

   Wildfires

      National Forests contain 6 million of the total 9 million acres of
      highly volatile brushland in California found mainly in the foothill
      country where urban expansion is increasing and many developments lack
      adequate protection against wildfire. In 2000, a total of 1,553
      wildfires burned 128,095 acres of national forest land.

   Water

      Surface water run-off in California averages 71 million acre-feet per
      year. Annual water use is about 37 million acre-feet, of which 80
      percent is used to irrigate crops. National forests supply 50 percent
      of the water in California and form the watershed of most major
      aqueducts and more than 2,400 reservoirs throughout the state.

   Recreation

      National forests in California account for 25 percent of national
      forest recreation nationwide and about half o the public wildland
      recreation in the state. National Parks and other federal, state,
      county and private lands provide the rest. National forests contain 30
      percent of the family campgrounds, 435 of the 6.5 million acres of
      designated Wilderness areas, and 22 of the 33 major downhill ski areas
      in California. They also include more than 2,400 lakes and reservoirs,
      13,000 miles of fishable rivers and streams, 1,200 miles of designated
      Wild and Scenic Rivers, and 10,500 miles of maintained trails for
      hiking, horseback riding and off-road vehicle use. National Forests are
      home to such unique scenic areas as Mt. Shasta, Lake Tahoe, Mt.
      Whitney, and the Big Sur coasts as well as important ecological and
      prehistoric sites.

   Fish and Wildlife

      More than 600 of the 800 species of fish and wildlife in California
      inhabit the national forests, making the Forest Service the single
      largest habitat manager in the state. National forests are also home to
      nearly 4,000 of the 6,500 native plants in California. Recovery
      programs include protection of critical habitat for Threatened and
      Endangered species such as the California condor, California bighorn
      sheep, and the northern spotted owl.

   Payment to Counties

      In October 2000, the President signed the Secure Rural Schools and
      Community Self-Determination Act of 2000. This legislation ends rural
      communities' historic dependence on timber sale receipts to finance
      school and road construction. Counties will now have the option of
      continuing to receive payments under the 25 percent Fund Act, or
      receive their share of the average of the three highest 25 percent
      payments made to the state during the period of fiscal year 1986-1999.

   Research

      The Pacific Southwest Research Station has 13 units in California. They
      provide critical research in collaboration with universities in areas
      such as forest genetic applications, the Pacific Southwest Forest Plan
      implementation, global climate change mitigation, prescribed fire
      restoration, wildland recreation enhancement, spotted owl restoration,
      and ecosystem management.

   All people are welcome to use the National Forests.

                                               Graphic indicating top of page

                  Related web sites in brown and blue text.

                             Welcome to the USDA
                           Meet the Forest Service
                              Other FS Regions
                               About This Site

                             Contact Information

                             USDA Forest Service
                  Pacific Southwest Region 1323 Club Drive
                              Vallejo, CA 94592
                                707.562.8737
                              TTY: 707.562.9130

                               Forest Offices

   Privacy Policy

                 USDA Forest Service Pacific Southwest Region

                                                             Disclaimers
