http://www.delta.dfg.ca.gov/data/salvage/

                            Fish Facilities Unit

                     Monitoring and Operations Projects

                                 [blbar.gif]

      Location of State Water Project and Central Valley Project Delta
     Intakes and Skinner Fish Salvage Facility and Tracy Fish Collection
                                  Facility
                                 [delta.jpg]

        Fish Louver Screens at the Tracy Fish Collection Facility

   [cvp.jpg] The State Water Project (SWP) operated by the California
   Department of Water Resources and Central Valley Project (CVP) operated
   by th U.S. Bureau of Reclamation export water out of the Sacramento-San
   Joaquin Delta for urban and agricultural use in California. When water
   is exported, fish become entrained into the diversion. The Department
   of Fish and Game's Fish Facilities Unit, Operations Project in
   cooperation with the Department of Water Resources salvage fish at the
   Skinner Delta Fish Protective Facility (SDFPF) while the U.S. Bureau of
   Reclamation salvage fish at the Tracy Fish Collection Facility (TFCF).
   Salvage of fish at both facilities is sampled at bi-hourly sampling
   periods 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Sampling of entrained fish
   at the SDFPF and TFCF is the source for daily salvage and loss
   estimates for the monitoring of incidental take of listed fish species
   by SWP and CVP. The fish salvage sampling began in 1957 at the TFCF and
   in 1968 at the SDFPF. The salvaged fish are trucked and released daily
   to several sites in the western Delta. The schedule of fish hauling is
   dependent on salvage rates, debris loading, and special-status-species
   procedures.

     Salvage of fish from the secondary bypass at the Skinner Fish Salvage
                                                                  Facility

   Jerry Morinaka salvaging fish Occassional maintenance and fish removal
   is performed throughout the fish protection facility. When this occurs,
   fish which loiter in the bypasses can be removed.
         Information regarding fish salvaged and lost at the SDFPF and
   TFCF is used extensively in water project monitoring and planning. The
   Fish Facilities Monitoring Project manages the data collected on fish
   entrained and salvaged at the SDFPF and TFCF. This project has one of
   the largest historical databases on Delta species available and has
   been used in assessing the effects of new facilities and programs,
   water project operations proposals, and evaluation of proposed Delta
   alternatives. Data can be obtained via FTP from the Bay-Delta server.
   Data files on the server have been compressed using SuperZip v1.0. For
   software to uncompress the data go to PKWARE, Inc. or to Integratech.

                                 [blbar.gif]

                        DFG BAY-DELTA IEP USFWS CERES
