http://www.fema.gov/nwz01/nwz01_176.htm

                                 NEWS Banner
     [ home | feedback | library | privacy policy | search | site help |
                                site index ]

                Paulison Sworn in as U.S. Fire Administrator

   Washington, DC, December 17, 2001 -- FEMA Director Joe Allbaugh swears
       in R. David Paulison as the new U.S. Fire Administrator, while
    Paulison's wife, Kathy, looks on. Washington, D.C., December 17, 2001
    -- R. David Paulison was sworn in today as the head of the U.S. Fire
    Administration (USFA) in a ceremony at the station of Engine 3 of the
    Washington D.C. Fire Department. The U.S. Fire Administration is part
             of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

   As U.S. Fire Administrator, Paulison leads an agency that advocates for
   and supports state and local fire service programs. In addition to his
   responsibilities for fire service programs, Paulison will implement the
    agency's initiatives for emergency readiness, as well as firefighter
              training and equipment in response to terrorism.

   Paulison was fire chief of Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department from 1992
    until his appointment as U.S. Fire Administrator. As Miami-Dade fire
   chief, he oversaw 1,900 personnel with a $200 million operating budget
       and a $70 million capital budget. He also oversaw the county's
                        emergency management office.

   Paulison began his career as a rescue firefighter and rose through the
     ranks to rescue lieutenant, battalion commander, district chief of
    operations, division chief, assistant chief and then deputy director
     for administration before becoming chief. His emergency management
    experience includes Hurricane Andrew and the crash of ValuJet Flight
                                    592.

     A native of Miami, Paulison earned a bachelor of arts from Florida
   Atlantic University and completed the Program for Senior Executives in
     State and Local Government at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy
    School of Government. Paulison was selected as fire chief of the year
       by Florida in 1993 and holds positions in several professional
   associations. He is a certified paramedic and member of the Miami-Dade
                     Urban Search and Rescue Task Force.


    Updated: December 18, 2001

                 FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCYMANAGEMENT AGENCY
