http://photolib.noaa.gov/meet_photographers.html

     NOAA Photo Library Banner

     Meet the Photographers
     [meetpanel.jpg]

       The NOAA Photo Library owes its existence to generous individuals
     who are willing to share their remarkable images and observations
     with America and the rest of the world. These individuals range from
     those who have worked their whole professional life for NOAA in
     far-flung corners of our Nation and the World to private citizens
     who are willing to share their observations of the atmosphere,
     oceans, and coastline.

     They have taken their pictures on all seven continents from ships,
     boats, aircraft, and submersibles; they have taken their pictures
     while hiking, diving, or conducting their work at sea, on the land,
     or in the air; they have taken their pictures from beaches, marshes,
     rocky shorelines, mountaintops, cities, plains, islands, glaciers,
     frozen seas, and sometimes even their own backyards; and in many
     instances they have taken these photographs at considerable risk to
     life and limb. This remarkable collection would not be here but for
     these public-spirited individuals. It is time now to meet the men
     and women who have made the NOAA Photo Library possible ---

     * Carol Askren Baldwin - program support assistant with the Office of
       Marine and Aviation Operations.
     * Commander John C. Bortniak, NOAA Corps (Retired) - World traveler
       with the NOAA Corps; currently working with NOAA's National Marine
       Fisheries Service.
     * CDR Emily B. Christman - Commander in the NOAA Corps and owner of
       the world's smartest dog!
     * Edward "Budd" Christman - Captain, NOAA Corps Retired; duties
       included helicopter pilot in Alaska.
     * William B. Folsom - A Foreign Affairs Specialist with NOAA's
       National Marine Fisheries Service.
     * Mary Hollinger - Native Marylander; NOAA Marine Biologist at NOAA's
       National Oceanographic Data Center.
     * Edgar Kleindinst - avid ocean kayaker who designs and builds his
       own wooden kayaks; one of NOAA's premier webmasters.
     * Sean Linehan - former Navy photographer; currently works as an
       aerial photographer with NOAA's National Geodetic Survey.
     * Dr. James P. McVey - currently Program Director for Sea Grant
       Aquaculture Program; world traveler.
     * Richard B. "Ben" Mieremet - world traveler and expert in Coastal
       Zone Management and environmental issues.
     * Steve Nicklas - Aerial photographer with NOAA's National Geodetic
       Survey Remote Sensing Division.
     * Rear Admiral Harley D. Nygren, NOAA Corps (Retired) - began his
       Coast & Geodetic Survey career in 1947; became the first director
       of the NOAA Corps.
     * Dr. Anthony R. Picciolo - marine biologist/oceanographer with
       NOAA's National Oceanographic Data Center.
     * Frank Ruopoli - graphic designer/illustrator for the NOAA Coastal
       Services Center.
     * Capt. Albert E. Theberge, NOAA Corps (Retired) - a former Sea
       Captain with the NOAA Corps; currently at the helm of the NOAA
       Photo Library.
     * Dr. Michael Van Woert - Chief Scientist for the United States
       National Ice Center; veteran of the Antarctic.

     spacer

   line
   About This Web Site
   line

     spacer

     line

     Publication of the NOAA Central Library
     Last Updated: 04/17/01

     spacer
