http://www.rrb.gov/mmohome.html

                       U.S. Railroad Retirement Board

    Skip past top Navigation Bar Home  | Search  | Contact Us  | Privacy
    Policy  | What's New  | Site Map  | Web Links

                       Office of the Management Member

   Management Member

                               Jerome F. Kever

   Jerome F. Kever was appointed Management Member of the Board by
   President Bush in 1992 upon the recommendation of the Association of
   American Railroads and the American Shortline and Regional Railroad
   Association. He was reappointed to a second term of office by President
   Clinton in 1995, and then to a third term in May 2000.

   Prior to his appointment to the Board, Mr. Kever was Vice President and
   Corporate Controller of the former Santa Fe Pacific Corporation (now
   merged into the Burlington Northern Santa Fe), which owned two Class I
   railroads. Before that he held executive positions with Household
   International and Deloitte and Touche. A Certified Public Accountant,
   Mr. Kever holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from Indiana University.
   He is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public
   Accountants.


MANAGEMENT MEMBER'S STAFF
Robert M. Perbohner
      Counsel to Management Member   Ann L. Chaney
                                           Attorney Advisor to Management Member
Joseph M. Waechter, Jr.
      Assistant to Management Member Email to Management Member's
                                     Office

(Before sending any e-mail, it is important that you review our e-mail
                               notice.)

                           [Program Letters Button]

               [Instructions Button] [Sickness Payments Button]

              ""

              Carrier Calendar

                              ""

                                 Financial Statements

                              ""

                                 Employer Coverage Decisions

                              ""

                                 Supplemental Annuity Tax Rate

   "" ASLRRA
   (American Short Line and Regional Railroad Association) "" AAR
   (Association of American Railroads)

                                   Divider

                                   Welcome

     As the Member on the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) representing
     the interests of the covered railroad industry employers, it is with
     pride that we are able to offer this new service.  This area of the
     Railroad Retirement Board's website has been designed to assist
     employers in their responsibilities under the Railroad Retirement
     and Railroad Unemployment Insurance Acts.  The information contained
     in this area, and other areas of the RRB website, replace what was
     previously available through the RRB Employer Bulletin Board System
     (BBS).  I hope you find this area helpful and welcome your comments
     on how to make this area of even greater value to you.

                                                          Jerome F. Kever

                                   Divider

   Before sending e-mail, you must review our e-mail notice!

                               Navigation Bar
   Page last updated October 05, 2001
