http://www.lbl.gov/Publications/Currents/Archive/Nov-16-2001.html

   [currents-banner.gif]
   [clear.gif] [bd15132_.gif] November 16, 2001 [bd15132_.gif] Search the
   Currents Archive [clear.gif]


      Director Shank Calls New Budget Something We Can Live With
      SHARES Focuses on Science Education, Sept. 11 Charities

      RAGE Rolls Out in Denver at SC2001
      Washington Report
      John Staples Receives Nitschke Award
      SNO Competitor Out of Commission
      DOE Grants 3-Year Extension for Chip CRADA
      Alvarado Wins 8-Year NIH Fellowship
      ESD Scientist Puts Perspective on Anthrax Attacks
      ALS Users Meeting Celebrates Great Facilities, Great Science, Great
      Future
      Reaching Further into the Infrared
      Turning Numbers into Knowledge by Jonathan Koomey
      Bulletin Board
      Calendar
      EH&S Classes November 2001
      Flea Market
      Flea Market Policy
        __________________________________________________________________

   Director Shank Calls New Budget
   Something We Can Live With

      By Ron Kolb


   [Shank_228J6935.jpg]

      The Berkeley Lab budget for fiscal year 2002 will be flat largely and
      thats not necessarily a bad thing, according to Director Charles V.
      Shank.

      Thats a pretty good budget number, he told an audience of auditorium
      and Internet-based listeners at a special briefing on Monday. With all
      the pressures that the government is under, its something we can live
      with.

      He also noted that the budget total ($430 million), just a few million
      below last years final number, is likely to go up if the traditional
      add-ons come through as programs are supplemented during the year.

      Shank said the Department of Energys Office of Science budget, which at
      $3.2 billion is almost 2.5 percent above that for FY 2001, includes $10
      million for facilities and infrastructure, some of which he hopes will
      go toward decommissioning and demolition of the Bevatron accelerator
      complex. This would free up the most beautiful space at the Laboratory,
      he said, and allow it to be used for other things. Funding is needed to
      begin the process, though the full clean-up project will probably take
      a decade.

      Also included in the budget, Shank said, is funding for initial designs
      for a new nanotechnology research facility at Berkeley Lab called the
      Molecular Foundry. If approved by the DOE and Congress, the building
      will be constructed adjacent to the Advanced Light Source.

      The Director referred to remarks made recently by Secretary of Energy
      Spencer Abraham about a possible mission realignment in the DOE.
      Although it caused some consternation within the research community
      because of the absence of science as a referenced mission, Shank
      assured the audience that the Secretary has since reaffirmed the
      importance of science to departmental priorities.

      My feeling is as they [the administration] move forward, they will take
      a hard look at all programs and find that science is a significant
      piece, he said. Noting that the country is in for a struggle in the
      coming years, Shank said he expected the laboratories to experience
      some of the impact of a falling economy. And he said the labs will be
      asked to assist the government with the expertise they bring in various
      disciplines as the war against terrorism continues.

      But, he added, I dont expect draconian changes. We just need to be even
      more creative, more effective, and have more compelling ideas. The
      future depends upon our own energies and our own ability to advance
      programs.

      Shank pointed to three programs that were showcased this week in
      Washington as part of an exhibition of DOE science capabilities:
      Berkeley Labs air transport analysis for buildings, its work with
      neutron sources in detection devices, and the Joint Genome Institutes
      rapid DNA sequencing of biological agents. All are potential
      contributors to the nations response to September 11.

      Commenting on the Laboratorys own efforts at responding to heightened
      security measures within the department, Shank said his hope is to
      disturb the work and openness of the Lab minimally while being
      responsible stewards of the facilities. For employees, this means
      carrying Lab identification at all times and enduring extra security
      checks at gates and on buses. For visitors, it means possessing
      visible, positive identification and proof of business need.

      Don Bell, emergency services manager for the Lab, told everyone that
      the best way to ensure visitor access is to complete a simple web-based
      form before their arrival on site.

      In a question session that followed, the Director reassured scientists
      that international collaborations should not be affected by new
      security measures, nor does he expect any additional restrictions on
      foreign travel.

                                       * * *

      The video transmission of the Directors briefing has been saved as a
      Video on Demand file. To view the program, start RealPlayer and enter
      address tsp://128.3.3.41:554/ budget.rm. The presentation begins
      approximately five minutes into the program. You may advance to the
      beginning of the talk by moving the slide bar at the top of the window
      to the right while monitoring the time into the transmission at the
      lower right side of the window. Stop when the time reaches 5:30. The
      transmission will begin.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   SHARES Focuses on Science Education,
   Sept. 11 Charities

      By Lisa Gonzales

      This year the Labs SHARES charitable giving campaign is giving special
      focus to the Lawrence Hall of Science, the Chabot Space & Science
      Center, and several September 11 recovery funds sponsored through
      Community Health Charities, the United Way, and the American Red Cross.
      Representatives from these organizations visited the Lab this month to
      talk about how they convert our contributions into assistance for
      others.


                                                     [LHSPlaza.jpg]
       The Lawrence Hall of Science is one of the science education
   institutions that will benefit from this year's SHARES campaign.

      Michael Reynolds, the executive director of the Chabot Space & Science
      Center (CSSC), visited the Lab last week to discuss the events,
      programs and exhibits at this state-of-the-art science education center
      in the hills of Oakland. CSSC receives very little funding from the
      government for their $7.2 million operating budget, relying instead on
      support from volunteers, membership, and community support.

      Our mission is to inspire, inform, and engage, said Reynolds. The Lab
      is the community where the real support comes from because you want
      everyone to know how exciting science can be.

      Those who contribute $10 or more per month to the CSSC will receive a
      family pass for free general admission and parking, complimentary
      vouchers to the Planetarium and Tien MegaDome Theater, and other
      benefits a $70 value. To learn more about CSSC see
      http://www.chabotspace.org/.

      The Lawrence Hall of Science (LHS), another one of SHARES featured
      charitable organizations, is a resource center for preschool through
      high school science and mathematics education and a public science
      center with hands-on exhibits. Classes such as Household Science and
      Fur, Feathers, and Scales are offered, along with professional
      development programs for teachers and administrators.

      We look to individual contributions to fund scholarships for student
      programs, says Barbara Ando, LHSs associate director for public
      programs. Many Lab employees send their kids to our classes, and our
      goal is to make this opportunity available to all children regardless
      of their families financial circumstances. For more information, visit
      http://www.lhs.berkeley.edu/.

      Those who wish to donate to September 11 recovery funds can do so
      through Community Health Charities, the United Way, and the American
      Red Cross.

      Following the events of September 11, the American Red Cross has
      provided $111.3 million in direct assistance, helped approximately
      25,000 families, and offered food, temporary shelter, counseling, and
      cash assistance to survivors, families of those lost, rescue and
      recovery workers, and others in need. They are now seeking donations
      for their Annual Disaster Giving Program, which helps to secure a
      reliable funding base for disaster relief services for individuals and
      families impacted by disaster anywhere in the country.

   [chabot_domes.jpg]
   The Chabot Space & Science Center accommodates almost 60,000 visitors a
   year. Its facilities include a 243-seat planetarium, the Challenger
   Learning Center, public 8" and 20" refractor telescopes, and the Tien
   MegaDome Science Theater with a 70-foot dome-screen and the Bay Area's
   only 70mm, 8-perf projection system. Larger-than-life films have taken
   viewers aboard the Space Shuttle, along the ocean floor, and soaring
   over the pyramids of Giza and into the shadowy chambers of King
   Tutankhamun's tomb. Courtesy of Chabot Space & Science Center

      Through the United Way, employees can donate to the September 11th Fund
      (www. uwnyc.org/sep11), established by The New York Community Trust and
      United Way of New York City to meet the immediate and longer-term needs
      of victims, families and communities affected by the terrorist attacks.
      Since the first days of the attack, the Fund has been providing
      emergency grants to experienced disaster relief agencies directly
      serving immediate needs of victims and their families. Agencies are
      still actively engaged in providing cash assistance, legal counseling,
      grief therapy, job training and placement, and other services. For a
      current list of grants made by The September 11th Fund and to see how
      those agencies are using their funds, see
      http://www.uwnyc.org/sep11/list.html.

      SHARES umbrella federation, Community Health Charities
      (http://www.healthcharities.org/), has many member charities that are
      also contributing to the efforts of emergency disaster relief. These
      include the American Lung Association of New York 9-11 Respiratory
      Assistance Fund (http://www.lungusa.org/), which has provided
      nebulizers and oxygen for New York rescue efforts, as well as the
      National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization
      (http://www.nhpco.org/) which called in all of its grief counselors
      nationally to assist families and individuals in both New York and
      Washington.

      The Berkeley Lab SHARES campaign concludes Wednesday, Nov. 21. All
      employees should have received a campaign packet at the end of October
      that included a letter from Lab Director Charles Shank, information
      about the charitable agencies, a pledge form and a pre-addressed
      envelope for submitting donation materials. More information can be
      found on the SHARES website at http://www.lbl.gov/shares/.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   RAGE Rolls Out in Denver at SC2001

      By John Bashor with Paul Preuss

      At this weeks SC2001 supercomputing conference held in Denver,
      Colorado, visitors were likely to encounter a roaming robot named RAGE.
      Despite its fearsome moniker, RAGE is intended to be a convivial sort
      of gadget, built specifically for the purpose of extending the reach of
      the group-communication tool known as the Access Grid to people and
      events far from the Grids fixed nodes.


   [rage_shot.tiff.jpg]

      Although originally named IMAGINE, for Integrated Mobile Access Grid
      InterNet Entity, the Computing Sciences employees who built the beast
      in their spare time evidently thought an acronymic loss was worth a
      gain in conceptual clarity. They settled on RAGE, for Remote Access
      Grid Entity. Put together over a period of five months, RAGE combines
      the robot-building experience of NERSCs John Shalf and Information
      Technologies and Services Divisions Zach Radding with software for
      collaborative systems developed over the years by NERSCs Distributed
      Systems Department.

      Made of off-the-shelf components and encased in a custom shell built by
      Radding in his garage on a recent weekend, RAGE is connected by
      wireless to a remote computer interface, where the operator can see
      through the robots small camera. The robot is also equipped with an LCD
      screen and speakers, which allows two-way communication between the
      operator and anyone the robot meets, wherever it roams.

      RAGE debuted at the SC2001 conference, capturing both technical
      presentations and less formal human interactions in the exhibit hall,
      feeding the information into the Access Grid and thence to the world.
      The control connection is secure enough to discourage unwanted
      interference. Someday, this kind of technology may allow a robot to be
      a stand-in at technical conferences, allowing people to watch
      presentations and interact with presenters without the hassle and
      expense of traveling to distant meetings.

      The Access Grid was initiated several years ago at Argonne National
      Laboratory and developed with the collaboration of numerous
      laboratories, universities and other institutions, including
      significant input from Berkeley Lab, including MBone multicast
      technology. The Access Grid uses multimedia displays and visualization
      environments to support large distributed meetings, collaborative work
      sessions, seminars, lectures, tutorials, and training exercises,
      emphasizing group-to-group communication.

      RAGE was designed to take the Access Grid beyond the walls of its
      specially built, inherently immobile nodal facilities. Because RAGE has
      four-wheel drive and four-wheel steering, with remote operation by way
      of 802.11 wireless network technology, it can provide Access Grid
      interaction in many locations not equipped with a node. RAGE explored
      the SC2001 exhibit hall and attending technical and plenary sessions,
      providing remote participants with a physical (if nonanthropic)
      presence in the room and thus a more direct means of interacting with
      those attending in person.

      Once it returns to Berkeley Lab, RAGE is expected to provide remote
      tours of the Oakland Scientific Facility.

      The RAGE Team includes John Shalf, Zach Radding, Deb Agarwal, Keith
      Jackson, Marcia Perry, Martin Stoufer, Joshua Boverhof, Dan Gunter, Eve
      Edelson of the Environmental Energy Technologies Division, and Clayton
      Bagwell.

      Photos of the team and the robot in various stages of construction can
      be found at http://www-itg.lbl.gov/~deba/RAGE/. Specifications can be
      found at http://infinite-entropy.lbl.gov/IMAGINE/.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Washington Report

   Marburger Takes Quick Action

      It may have taken a long time for his name to be submitted, but once in
      office presidential science advisor John Marburger quickly made his
      presence felt when he eliminated two of the four senior positions
      within the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) that he now
      heads. Eliminated were the advisory positions on national security and
      environmental matters. The two positions remaining are science chief
      and technology chief.

      I felt OSTP was too fragmented to be effective, and I wanted to have
      more direct control, Marburger said in announcing the change.

      Marburger has nominated Richard Russell, now OSTP chief of staff, to
      serve as technology chief. Russell worked for nearly seven years on

      the House Science Committee, but unlike most of his predecessors, does
      not have an advanced scientific degree.

       This is not an academic appointment, and dealing with academic aspects
      of technology is only part of what we do, said Marburger in defense of
      his nominee.

   DOE/NSF Panel Tabs New Linear Collider as
   Top Priority for High-Energy Physics

      The long-range planning subgroup of the DOE/NSF High-Energy Physics
      Advisory Panel (HEPAP) said that building a new linear collider,
      preferably in the United States, should be the top priority for the
      nations high-energy physics agenda. The panel called on the federal
      government to make a strong bid to build a high-energy,
      high-luminosity, electron-positron linear collider. Projected costs
      would be about $5 billion to $7 billion, with as much as $2 billion of
      this coming from redirecting federal funds for current high-energy
      physics programs. An addition $1.5 billion to $2 billion would be
      sought from foreign sources.

      Said Barry Barish, a physicist at Cal Tech and co-chair of the HEPAP
      subgroup, This is a global sport now, and we cant do anything without
      considering the international picture.

      Barishs subgroup also recommended that HEPAP establish a panel that
      would play a key role in determining research priorities at the
      national labs and other research centers. Called the Particle Physics
      Project Prioritization Panel, this committee would evaluate
      particle-physics projects costing about $50 million to $500 million
      which, said the subgroup report, make up a major part of the U.S.
      high-energy physics program.Lynn Yarris

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   John Staples Receives Nitschke Award


   [NietschkeXBD200110-02297-11.jpg]

      Rick Gough, head of the Ion Beam Technology group in the Accelerator
      and Fusion Research Division, congratulates John Staples of AFRD after
      handing him the J. Michael Nitschke Award for Technical Excellence on
      Nov. 2. The award was established by nuclear chemist Albert Ghiorso
      (right) in 1997 to honor individuals whose accomplishments make major
      scientific discoveries possible.

      Staples was recognized for his contributions to accelerator physics.
      According to Gough, Staples played an especially important role in
      developing the Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) for the Spallation
      Neutron Source, a six-laboratory collaboration for which Berkeley Lab
      is designing the front end.

      Rick and I have worked together for about 30 years, and it was indeed a
      pleasure to have him present the award, Staples says, and of course
      even more of a pleasure to have been chosen by Al for it.

      The award is made through the East Bay Community Foundation with funds
      from the estate of the late Michael Nitschke, a Berkeley Lab nuclear
      scientist who died in 1995. Photo by Robert Couto

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   SNO Competitor Out of Commission

      The Super-Kamiokande neutrino detector, the $100 million Japanese rival
      to the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO), has been retired from the
      research playing field for the foreseeable future. During a routine
      repair operation that required the draining and refilling of Super-Ks
      tank, which holds 3,000 tons of pure water, more than half of the
      detectors 11,146 photomultiplier tubes shattered in an apparent chain
      reaction. Officials at the Super-K have no idea what triggered the
      accident, nor how long it will take for the facility to be repaired and
      put back on-line.

      We will rebuild the detector. There is no question, said Yoji Totsuka,
      director of the director of the University of Tokyos Institute for
      Cosmic Ray Research (ICRR), which heads an international collaboration
      of 120 physicists from 23 institutions operating the Super-K detector.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   DOE Grants 3-Year Extension for Chip CRADA

      Looking to develop a manufacturing technique for making computer chips
      that would operate six times faster than todays most powerful
      microprocessors, DOE and a consortium of six computer companies have
      extended to March 2005 a 1997 CRADA (cooperative R&D agreement)
      scheduled to expire this coming March. The purpose of the CRADA is to
      develop extreme ultraviolet lithography technology.

      Berkeley Lab is one of three national labs participating in this CRADA,
      along with Lawrence Livermore and Sandia. The participating computer
      companies are Advanced Micro Devices Inc., IBM Corp., Infineon
      Technologies, Intel Corp., Micron Technology Inc., and Motorola Inc. To
      date, some $250 million has been spent on the project, and the CRADA
      extension provides an additional $65 million.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Alvarado Wins 8-Year NIH Fellowship


   [Alvarado_Maritza2.jpg]

      Maritza Alvarado, a student lab assistant in Life Sciences Divisions
      Department of Functional Imaging, has been awarded a National
      Institutes of Health fellowship entailing eight years of funding all
      expenses plus a $20,000 year stipend for an M.D./Ph.D. program. Only
      five such awards were given out nationwide.

      Alvarado has been working under the mentorship of Anat Biegon on the
      development of novel fluorine-containing NMDA antagonists for brain
      imaging. The NMDA receptor has been implicated in neuronal death
      following stroke, brain injury, and neurodegenerative disorders such as
      Alzheimers, Parkinsons and Huntingtons diseases.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   ESD Scientist Puts Perspective on Anthrax Attacks

      By Lynn Yarris


   [hazen.tiff.jpg]

      At a time when the threat of anthrax-laden letters has the entire
      nation on edge with anxiety, it was most fitting that Terry Hazen, who
      heads the Center for Biotechnology (CEB)in the Earth Sciences Division
      (ESD), provided a scientific perspective on anthrax and other pathogens
      in an ESD seminar entitled Why do good bugs go bad? The talk was held
      last Friday, Nov. 9, in the Building 50 auditorium.

      Widespread and indiscriminate use of antibiotics and climate change are
      much more likely to have long-term effects on pathogen ecology and
      human health than intentional releases of pathogens by terrorists,
      Hazen said. However, he did caution that, When youre up to your ass in
      alligators its difficult to remember that your original plan wasnt to
      drain the swamp.

      Hazen, who holds a Ph.D. in microbial ecology from Wake Forest
      University, is an award-winning researcher whose patents on
      bioremediation processes are used throughout the United States and
      Europe. He is also internationally known for his earlier research on
      indicators and pathogen survival in the environment, providing
      technical guidance for both the US EPA and the United Nations. He came
      to Berkeley Lab in 1998 after cutting his professional teeth at the
      University of Puerto Rico and the Savannah River Site, and has headed
      the CEB since 1999.

      In his ESD seminar on Friday, he stressed that while current events
      have thrown a spotlight on the dangers posed by anthrax and other
      microbes, these dangers are not entirely new.

      Microbial life has been around for more than 3.7 billion years and
      accounts for approximately 60 percent of all the biomass on earth, he
      said. There may be as many as ten-to-the- seventh different species,
      capable of dividing once every 20 minutes and undergoing four
      simultaneous mutations in every gene in less than an hour.

      Microbes are not only abundant, they are superbly adaptable, able to
      exist under a broad expanse of environmental conditions, from extremely
      cold to extremely hot temperatures, from acidic to basic pH levels, or
      from near-vacuum to high-pressure. They can even survive exposures to
      more than 2 million rads of radiation.

      Microbes find it toasty in radioactive environments that would smoke
      every other living organism, Hazen said.

      On the whole, microbes do far more good than harm. For example, they
      cycle more carbon and nitrogen than all plant life combined. They are
      also natures premier recycling agents. As Hazen pointed out, There is
      no compound known to science that microbes cannot degrade.

      So why do good bugs go bad? Essentially, it is the survival strategies
      pursued by various microbe populations that can succeed at our expense.
      For example, Bacillus anthracis, when faced with nutritional shortages,
      will go dormant inside a hardened cyst or endospore. In this
      metabolically inactive state, protected by the endospore, the anthrax
      bacteria can wait for more than 200 years and still be viable when it
      finds itself in a nutritionally rich environment, such as a human lung.

      Bacillus anthracis produces two toxins that make it pathogenic to
      humans and distinguishes it from the ubiquitous but benign Bacillus
      cereus microbe. Humans can become infected either through an open wound
      in the skin or through inhalation, but it is the air-borne anthrax
      spores that are the biggest concern because these spores can remain in
      the air almost indefinitely once they are aloft. Hazen told his
      audience of military tests in the 1950s in which spores simulating
      anthrax were released about two miles off the coast of San Francisco.

      As many as 10,000 spores reached parts of the city and penetrated as
      far east as Berkeley on the clearest day. This is the number of spores
      humans have to inhale to become infected with the anthrax disease, he
      said. However, on typical weather days, no infectious doses were
      detected on the mainland.

      Hazen said there have been 237 cases of anthrax disease in humans in
      the United States between 1955 and 2000. He speculated that with
      regards to recent tests showing the presence of anthrax in various
      buildings in Washington and New York, the anthrax has probably been
      there for a long time, only no one ever looked for it before.

      This would not be the first time that an airborne pathogens presence
      did not come to light until after its tragic consequences were felt.
      Legionella pneumophila, better known as Legionnaires Disease, was
      discovered following an outbreak at a 1976 American Legion convention
      in Philadelphia that resulted in 29 deaths and 200 hospitalizations.
      Hazen said it was subsequently learned that the bacteria is common in
      the environment and antibodies were found in human blood from epidemics
      dating back to the 1940s.

      Waterborne epidemics have been even worse, Hazen said, citing a 1993
      outbreak of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts from cows in Milwaukee,
      Wisconsin, that resulted in more than 100 deaths, 4,400
      hospitalizations, and more than 400,000 illnesses. Apparently, a slow
      sand filter did not remove the oocysts from the city water supply.

      Even without the machinations of bioterrorists or equipment failure,
      Hazen said there are other factors, such as climate change and exposure
      to ultraviolet radiation from the sun that can exacerbate the threat
      from microbes.

   [Fifth_plague.jpg]
   The biblical Fifth Plague of Egypt, depicted in J.M.W. Turners 1800
   painting, took place in the second millennium B.C.E. Hazen said it
   described an anthrax epizootic.

      Warming or cooling trends can change the distribution of pathogens and
      disease vectors, he said, and increased exposure to ultraviolet rays
      can increase mutation rates with unpredictable effects on the ecosystem
      as a whole and on pathogen development specifically.

      Still, it is the idea of biological warfare that unnerves many and even
      that, Hazen says, is not exactly a new idea. Hannibal filled clay pots
      with serpents and hurled them at enemy ships; the Tartars tossed
      plague-ridden corpses over the city walls of Kaffa; and Pizarro gave
      smallpox-infected clothing to the Incas.

      The fifth plague of Egypt, which took place around 1491 B.C., described
      an anthrax epizootic, Hazen said.

      Asked whether he personally changed any of his daily activities as a
      result of the recent outbreak of anthrax, Hazen answered no.

      Theres a small probability of opening an envelop with anthrax, he said,
      and if you do, the symptoms are recognizable and treatable.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   ALS Users Meeting Celebrates Great Facilities,
   Great Science, Great Future

      By Paul Preuss


   [alsXBD200110-02241-16.jpg]
         Photo by Robert Couto

      For three days in mid-October, over 350 scientists and other fascinated
      participants flocked to the annual ALS Users Meeting to hear about the
      years scientific advances, see the ALSs new superconducting bend
      magnets (superbends) for themselves, and exchange ideas for future
      directions in synchrotron light sources.

      In his welcoming remarks on Oct. 15, Berkeley Lab Director Charles
      Shank forecast an era of new science to be ushered in by the ability of
      the superbends to achieve energies extending into the hard x-ray range.
      Among the dignitaries in attendance was Patricia Dehmer, DOEs associate
      director for Basic Energy Sciences, who underscored the dramatic
      turnaround in the fortunes of the ALS in just four years (since the
      publication of the so-called Birgenau Report in November 1997).

      Dehmer suggested that the new challenge facing the ALS is to maintain
      its acknowledged position of leadership. Much of the subsequent
      discussion at the meeting focused on how the ALS could best focus on
      newly emerging fields of science while becoming more accessible to its
      worldwide community of users.

      The latter topic is dear to the heart of Yves Petroff, former director
      general of the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, currently on
      sabbatical and serving as senior advisor to ALS director Daniel Chemla.
      Among other improvements, Petroff would like to see more and better
      living accommodations parking spaces included made available to users.
      He and ALS science deputy Neville Smith have also recommended new
      resources and procedures to make working at the ALS easier for
      scientists who are not synchrotron initiates.

      Following the plenary session, two days were devoted to seven different
      workshops on topics ranging from advanced detectors to molecular
      environmental science to high-pressure studies and more. The new
      superbends were hardly the only factor fueling interest in the future.
      The excitement generated by the renaissance of the ALS could be found,
      for example, in one particularly popular workshop that concentrated on
      the opposite end of the energy spectrum: the middle and far infrared.
      (See sidebar on IR workshop.)

      Prizes at party-time

      This year the traditional Users Meeting banquet was held outdoors on
      the patio of the ALS, its unparalleled view of San Francisco Bay
      unfortunately hampered by fog. The hearty buffet dinner kept spirits
      up, and a round of prizes presented by outgoing Users Executive
      Committee chair Harald Ade of North Carolina State University capped
      the event. Prizes included the David Shirley Award for science at the
      ALS to Gary Mitchell and Ed Rightor; the Halbach Award for
      instrumentation to David Robin and his colleagues; the Renner Users
      Service Award to Erike Arenholz and Ken Barat; and the award for best
      student posters to Hendrik Ohldag and Christoph Bostedt.

      For more about the 2001 ALS Users Meeting, visit http://www.als.lbl
      gov/als/usermtg.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Reaching Further into the Infrared

      On the first day of the IR workshop, organized by Michael Martin and
      Wayne McKinney of ALS infrared beamline 1.4, attention focused on
      current research successes. On day two, discussion turned to ideas for
      a brand new facility: a new infrared ring to be constructed under the
      ALS dome.

      The current IR beamline is great for near-infrared microscopy and
      spectroscopy, says Martin, but because the ALS was originally built for
      extreme ultraviolet and soft-x-ray light, it cant do much in the far
      infrared. For example, longer wavelengths are often eliminated by the
      geometry of existing beam ports.

      A combination of factors suggests that a uniquely capable infrared
      facility could be built using the shielding structure of the existing
      booster ring as a foundation. The booster ring shielding is not
      constructed from blocks of concrete but was continuously poured as a
      single structure, eliminating many vibration problems. Electrons would
      be injected into the dedicated IR ring from the existing linac at long
      intervals, with no overlap or interference with the needs of the main
      ring.

      The IR ring would use extremely short bunches of electrons. Synchrotron
      radiation produced by electron bunches shorter than the wavelength of
      the radiation itself in this case, long-wavelength infrared is
      coherent, increasing brightness by many orders of magnitude.

      Extremely short pulses would open new research possibilities, such as
      observing rapid chemical changes in living cells in real time. Another
      area of science that would benefit greatly from a bright far-infrared
      source and its vast increase in signal over existing lab methods
      include studies of high-temperature superconductivity, colossal
      magnetoresistance, and other aspects of the electronic structure of
      strongly correlated materials.

      Studies of the feasibility of a dedicated IR ring at the ALS, with 36
      ports of which a dozen would be in use at any time, are currently
      supported by Berkeley Labs Laboratory Directed Research and Development
      program. Integrating the new ring with existing facilities promises to
      make it remarkably economical.

      The IR-ring scheme is just one of numerous opportunities for keeping
      the ALS in the forefront of synchrotron radiation science.

      For more about infrared studies at the ALS visit
      http://infrared.als.lbl.gov/.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Book review

   Turning Numbers into Knowledge

   By Jonathan Koomey


   [koomey.book.jpg]

      In his role as leader of the End-Use Forecasting Group in the
      Environmental Energy Technologies Divisions Energy Analysis Department,
      Jonathan Koomey is professionally concerned with using numbers from
      many different sources to gain knowledge about where markets for
      energy-efficient technologies may be headed. Its an approach called
      quantitative problem solving.

      Although the technical aspects of this process are taught at many
      universities, the art of problem solving is rarely discussed and even
      more rarely written down, Koomey notes in the preface to his latest
      book, Turning Numbers into Knowledge: Mastering the Art of Problem
      Solving. His goal is to amend that lack, helping the reader to become a
      first-rate analyst in your chosen field.

      Your chosen field covers a lot of ground, and while Turning Numbers
      into Knowledge delivers on Koomeys promise, much of the pleasure of
      reading it comes from his eccentric definition of both his topic and
      his audience. Not a textbook or not just a textbook Turning Numbers
      into Knowledge is aimed at students and professors alike; at problem
      solvers in business, government and research; at middle managers and
      potential investors; and even at journalists.

      With a chapters such as Beginners Mind, Question Authority and Reflect,
      one might think Koomeys book could have been named Zen and the Art of
      Statistical Analysis. But it is also full of technical advice, in
      chapters like Let Tables and Graphs Do the Work, Use the Internet, and
      many more.

      In fact, Koomey has organized his topics thoughtfully, beginning with
      considerations of why anyone, professional or amateur, would undertake
      quantitative analysis. His bottom-line answer is that it helps us
      manage a runaway information explosion, which otherwise can lead either
      to paralysis through overload or to the opposite a refusal to learn
      anything new. He then moves on to the mental preparation needed for
      problem solving, consideration of common pitfalls, critical thinking,
      and finally to nitty-gritty techniques.

      In the first chapter, Beginners Mind, Koomey reminds the reader that
      experience is a two-edged sword. It eliminates unnecessary detail, but
      it can also lead you astray when a new problem is sufficiently outside
      your experience. Whats needed, he says, is a combination of curiosity
      the nonjudgmental observation of the beginner with the experience of a
      senior analyst.

      He makes his point with Bruce Lees amusing parable of the Zen master
      and the Western university professor who came to inquire about Zen but
      never stopped talking about what he already knew. During a pause in the
      monologue, the master suggested tea. He poured his visitors cup full
      and kept on pouring and pouring until finally the professor protested:
      No more will go in! Noting that the professors mind was like his
      teacup, the master asked How can I show you Zen unless you empty your
      cup?

      Later, in the chapter Question Authority, Koomey allows that sometimes
      following authority is essential in military maneuvers, for example but
      that most life situations arent like that. Appeals to anonymous
      authority are immediately suspect; so are expert pronouncements by
      experts in an unrelated field, or those with a vested interest in the
      outcome. Koomey cites the expert testimony of researchers funded by
      tobacco companies who found no evidence that smoking had adverse health
      effects. He warns that while information on the internet is
      particularly susceptible to a lack of institutional validity, any
      source can propagate nonsense.

      In an exercise from a subsequent chapter, How guesses become facts,
      Koomey suggests that the reader Find an official statistic that sounds
      plausible and explore its origins. Do you still find it plausible after
      youve investigated? Its an exercise Koomey himself has undertaken more
      than once, notably with the 1998 claim that the internet was consuming
      eight percent of total U.S. electricity production and was well on its
      way to consuming half. Koomey discovered that the numbers were based on
      bad measurements, bad assumptions, and outright guesses none of which
      prevented them from becoming enshrined as fact before Koomeys EETD team
      did their best to set things straight. (See
      http://www.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/net-energy-studies.html)

      In summing up the lessons of Turning Numbers into Knowledge, Koomey
      lists a dozen points to remember, among them Dont be intimidated, Get
      organized, Document, document, document, and Remember that others dont
      care as much about your work as you do an invitation to know and
      persuade ones audience. Its sound advice, cheerfully and colorfully
      delivered by a man who knows what hes talking about, and of value to
      all sorts of readers whether or not they intend to ever crunch a single
      number. Paul Preuss

                                       * * *

      Turning Numbers into Knowledge: Mastering the Art of Problem Solving,
      by Jonathan G. Koomey, with illustrations by Tom Chen, published by
      Analytics Press, 221 pages hardcover, $34.95.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Bulletin Board

      Open Enrollment Informational Meeting Today

      The Labs Benefits Department is holding an all-employee Open Enrollment
      informational meeting today from 10 to 11:30 a.m. in the Building 50
      auditorium. Featured will be an overview of Open Enrollment changes and
      updates on the retirement plan tax laws (EGTRRA) that will go into
      effect on Jan. 1. Employees are invited to ask questions about health
      care plans and the Open Enrollment process. Refreshments will be
      served.

      The Open Enrollment period continues through the end of the month, with
      changes effective Jan. 1, 2002. Detailed information, including
      side-by-side comparisons of plan benefits, is available on the
      HR/Benefits Open Enrollment website at http://www.ucop.edu/bencom/oe.

      Center for Science and Engineering Education (CSEE)

      Last week the Center for Science and Engineering Education (CSEE) held
      their Education Outreach meeting to kick off the Lab efforts for the
      new school year while acknowledging the hard work of mentors during
      this past year. The meeting began with Director Charles Shank
      recognizing outstanding mentors during the FY2001 programs.

   [mentorsXBD200110-02330-012.jpg]

      Mentoring is an important part of what we do here, said Shank, who has
      mentored many students that he often encounters during his travels to
      research facilities throughout the country. I cant overestimate the
      impact we can have on a young person just beginning to consider a
      future in the sciences.

      Those named Outstanding Mentors for 2001 are Ken Barat of Environment,
      Health & Safety; Regine Goth-Goldstein, Lara Gundel and David
      Lorenzetti of Environmental Energy Technologies; Mike Martin of the
      Advanced Light Source; Rick Norman of Nuclear Science; and Dale Perry
      and Will Stringfellow of Earth Sciences. They were chosen based upon
      the comments of the students and a long history of commitment to
      education outreach.  Photo by Robert Couto

      Course on Unix Security

      To help Unix users achieve security in their systems, the LBNL Computer
      Protection Program is sponsoring a full-day course on Unix security on
      Wednesday, Dec. 5. The event will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the
      Building 66 auditorium and will cover the following topics:

        · Major types of security-related vulnerabilities
        ·  Physical security
        ·  File protection
        ·  System and network protection
        · Account security
        · Logging
        ·  Special security needs for different flavors of Unix
        ·  Useful tools (ssh, sudo, tcpdump, Tripwire, Crack, Fix-Modes,
        etc.)

      The instructors will be Jim Mellander and Gene Schultz. There is no
      charge for attending, but preregistration is required. To register send
      email to cp-seminar@lbl.gov and eeschultz@lbl.gov.

      Oakland Ballet Nutcracker Tickets

      The Employees Arts Council (EAC) is offering discounted tickets for the
      6 p.m. performance of Oakland Ballets Nutcracker on Saturday, Dec. 22.
      The ballet is performed at the art deco Paramount Theatre in Oakland
      and accompanied by the Oakland East Bay Symphony. Orchestra tickets are
      $34 for adults (regularly $45), and $27 for children 12 and under.
      Tickets must be ordered and paid for no later than Nov. 21. No babies
      in arms admitted. To purchase tickets, contact Mary Clary at X4940 or
      MMClary@lbl.gov.

      Travel Safety Tips

      Because of the recent heightened awareness about travel safety, the
      Travel Office has posted a list of travel safety tips on its website at
      http://www.lbl.gov/Workplace/CFO-Travel/travel_safety_tips.html. Most
      are common sense guidelines, although some refer to specific travel
      situations. Some of these tips include:

      General
        *   Secure all your travel arrangements through the Labs designated
          travel agency.
        * Provide the agency with your hotel information to be included in
          your itinerary. Leave copies of your business itinerary with your
          family and supervisor.
        * Plan to arrive at the airport at least two hours prior to departure
          for domestic flights and three hours for international.
        *   Do not display any Laboratory identification on your luggage or
          yourself. Use tags that conceal your name and address.
        * Carry valuables, important business papers, medications, some
          toiletries and a change of clothing with you in your carry-on
          luggage. Keep all prescription medications in their original
          containers.
        * When checking in at a hotel, request a room above the second floor,
          but below the sixth floor to reduce the risk of exterior entry or
          entrapment by fire. Maintain control of your luggage at all times
          and avoid using bellboys.
        *   Check all windows, sliding glass doors, balcony doors and
          connecting doors in your room to be sure they are locked.
        * Use only licensed taxi or limousine services.

      International Travel
        * Obtain current information on criminal and terrorist risks for the
          city or country to which you are traveling. The U.S. State
          Departments Travel Warnings and Consular Information Sheets can be
          found online at http://www.travel,state.gov/travel_warnings. The
          site also includes a list of embassy locations, health conditions,
          and more.
        * Store your passport, and an alternate credit card in a neck or
          waist pouch worn under your clothing. If possible, avoid
          relinquishing your passport to anyone.
        * If your passport is lost or stolen, contact the US Consulate or
          World-wide Assistance at (800) 643-5525.
        * Obtain an international calling card. Conventional cell phones do
          not function overseas and negotiating a call is much easier to
          accomplish with a calling card.

      Publication Reminder

      Because of Currents holiday schedule adjustment, the next issue will be
      published on Dec. 7. Please keep this in mind when planning your
      submissions for Calendar (deadline Dec. 2) or Flea Market items
      (deadline Nov. 29).

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Calendar

      General Interest

   NOVEMBER 16, Friday

      OPEN ENROLLMENT INFORMATION MEETING
      10 a.m. 1:30 p.m., Bldg. 50 auditorium

   NOVEMBER 17, Saturday

      THE BIG GAME: CAL VS. STANFORD
      12:30 p.m., Stanford Stadium

   NOVEMBER 21, Wednesday

      END OF SHARES CAMPAIGN

   NOVEMBER 22, Thursday

      THANKSGIVING

   NOVEMBER 23, Friday

      HOLIDAY

      HAPPY HOLIDAY

   NOVEMBER 30, Friday

      END OF OPEN ENROLLMENT PERIOD

      Send us your announcements

      Announcements for the General Calendar and Bulletin Board page may be
      sent to MSFriedlander@lbl.gov. Seminar & Lectures items may be mailed
      to currents_ calendar@lbl.gov. You may also fax items to X6641 or mail
      them to Bldg. 65B. The deadline for the Dec. 7  issue is 5 p.m. Monday,
      Dec. 2.

   Seminars & Lectures

   NOVEMBER 19, Monday

      DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
      Solar Neutrinos: An Overview
      Speaker: John Bahcall, Institute for Advanced Study
      4:30 p.m., 1 Le Conte Hall

   NOVEMBER 20, Tuesday

      ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES DIVISION SEMINAR
      NSF Funding Opportunities for LBNL-Mentored Research
      Speaker: Roland J. Otto, Center for Science and Engineering Education
      Noon, Bldg. 90, Room 3148

   NOVEMBER 26, Monday

      DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
      Science with Synchrotron Radiation
      Speaker: Yves Petroff, Advanced Light Source
      4:30 p.m., 1 Le Conte Hall

   NOVEMBER 27, Tuesday

      CENTER FOR BEAM PHYSICS SEMINAR SERIES
      Experimental Science at the Extremes: Laboratory Astrophysics on High
      Energy Density Facilities
      Speaker: Bruce Remington, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
      2 p.m., Bldg. 71, Albert Ghiorso Conference Room

   NOVEMBER 29, Thursday

      SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS SEMINAR
      Dynamics of Photo- and Thermal-Induced Reactions on Silver Surfaces
      Speaker: Mike White, Brookhaven National Laboratory
      1:30 p.m., Bldg. 62, Room 203

      ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES DIVISION SEMINAR
      Mercury Transport and Transformation in the Wider Idrija Mercury Mine
      Region, Slovenia
      Speaker: Milena Horvat, Jozef Stefan Institute, Ljubljana, Slovenia
      Noon, Bldg. 90, Room 3148

   DECEMBER 3, Monday

      DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
      Using Plasma for Compressing Very High Power Laser Pulses
      Speaker: Nathaniel J. Fisch, Princeton University
      4:30 p.m., 1 Le Conte Hall

   DECEMBER 5, Wednesday

      LIFE SCIENCES DIVISION SEMINAR
      Identification of Pathways that Suppress Genome Instability
      Speaker: Richard Kolodner, Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, UCSD
      Noon, Bldg. 50 auditorium

   DECEMBER 6, Thursday

      SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS SEMINAR
      Surface Science with Nanoparticles in a Carrier Gas
      Speaker: Hans Siegmann, SLAC
      1:30 p.m., Bldg. 66 auditorium

   DECEMBER 7, Friday

      CENTER FOR BEAM PHYSICS SEMINAR SERIES
      RHIC Operation in 2001
      Speaker: Wolfram Fischer, Brookhaven National Laboratory
      10:30 a.m., Bldg. 71, Albert Ghiorso Conference Room

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   EH&S Classes November 2001


   Date

        Course

                                                           Time

                                                                      Building

   11/16

        EHS 275

                        Confined Space Hazards

                                                           9:00 11:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/16

        EHS 274

                        Confined Space Hazards-Retraining

                                                           11:00 12:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/16

        EHS 330

                        Leads Hazards Awareness

                                                           2:00 3:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/20

        EHS 604

                        Hazardous Waste Generator

                                                           9:30 11:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/20

        EHS 622

                        Radioactive & Mixed Waste Generator

                                                           11:00 12:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/20

        EHS 735/ 738/739

                        Biosafety/Bloodborne Pathogen

                                                           1:30 2:45

                                                                      51-201

   11/21

        EHS 530

                        Fire Extinguisher

                                                           10:00 11:30

                                                                      48-109

   11/21

        EHS 210

                        Hoist

                                                           10:30 12:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/26

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           8:30 11:30

                                                                      51-201

   11/26

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           1:00 4:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/27

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           8:30 11:30

                                                                      51-201

   11/27

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           1:00 4:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/28

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           8:30 11:30

                                                                      51-201

   11/28

        EHS 62

                        MoveSMART

                                                           1:00 4:00

                                                                      51-201

   11/29

        EHS 60

                        Ergonomics for Computer Users

                                                           2:00 3:30

                                                                      51-201

   11/29

        EHS 400

                        Radiation Protection-Fundamentals

                                                           9:00 12:00

                                                                      51-201

      To enroll, contact Valarie Espinoza at VMEspinoza@lbl.gov or enroll via
      the web at http://www.lbl.gov/ehs/ehstraining/registration/.
      Preregistration is required for all courses except EHS 10. For a full,
      updated schedule see http://www-ia1.lbl.gov/schedule/.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Flea Market

   Autos / Supplies

      95 FORD ESCORT Wagon LX, red, 63K mi, at, ac, 2 airbags, cd/radio, good
      cond, $5,000, Liv, X5119

      92 SATURN SL2 sedan 4 dr, 4 cyl 1.9 L, 5 spd, 120K mi, ac, moonrf, all
      pwr, cruise, dealer maint, exc cond, $2,900 (below blue book), Raimond,
      X2296, 558-9351

      86 MAZDA 323, brn, 85K mi, pwr steer, 4 dr, am/fm/cd, $2,000, Karla or
      Sabino, X4110, 704-4096

      85 HONDA CIVIC 2 dr hatch, tan w/ black trim, 121K mi, 38 mpg, new
      tires, body a bit worn but mech sound, reliable, great commute car,
      $1,000/ bo, Diane, X5839, 658-9690

      71 VW BEETLE, orange, dents, needs front axle beam replaced, $500,
      Jason, X7562, (415) 722-3486

   Housing

      BERKELEY HILLS, house avail for 7 month rental for visiting faculty or
      grad student, 3 bdrm/ 2 bth, furn, 3 bridge view, attached garage,
      fireplace, great yard, in Berkeley hills, near bus, minutes from Lab &
      shops, avail 1/15 8/15/02 (time neg), no smoking/pets, $1,950/mo incl
      water & biweekly housekeeper, Bill/ Ellen, X4890, 528-0553,
      wlcarroll@lbl.gov, ebgold@ucdavis.edu

      El CERRITO, room avail in 2 bdrm/1.5 bth apt, avail for 5-6 months
      starting 1/1, furn or unfurn, balcony, d/w, covered parking, coin
      laundry in bldg, walk to pub trans & shops, no smoking/ pets,
      $610+util, Alysia, X2467, admarino@socrates.berkeley.edu

      KENSINGTON, 2 rooms avail in 5 bdrm house, semi-cooperative, almost
      vegetarian, non-smoking, relaxed, friendly lge kitchen, view of bay,
      garden w/ fruit trees, w/d, dw, patio, hot tub, share w/ 5 others (grad
      students & scientists), 26-34 yrs old, no pets, no TV in common areas,
      1 rm avail 12/1 (master w/ own bth) for $475, other rm avail Jan or
      Feb  (in cottage w/ own bath for $480), steve@idiom.com, 524-2668

   Misc Items for Sale

      2 SWAN CHAIRS, new, turn-of-the-century antique reproduction, mahogany
      wood, $900, Mary, X7530

      BABY CRIB, Jenny Lind style, like new, hardwood, natural color, $75,
      Dan or Judy, 799-0818

      COUCH, 7' long, floral/vine pattern, very soft, can be used as a bed, 2
      tears in fabric, $60; comfortable recliner, $50; glass/bamboo coffee
      table, $10; 2 drawer white metal filing cabinet, $15; small desk, $10;
      fax machine, $15, Jason, X7562, (415) 722-3486

      FISHER CROWN X-Country skis, 188 cm w/ Salomon bindings, poles, women's
      Salomon boots size 7-1/2, top quality, hardly used, all for $140, Cami,
      X8625, (925) 736-5790

      GOLF CLUB, taylor made titanium burner bubble driver 9.5 deg, $89; Hart
      F17 skis w/ salomon bindings 198cm, $59, Brian, X4526

      LUTHER VANDROSS ticket for 11/20 at Paramount Theater in Oakland,
      orchestra seating, $75, Gina, X4311, 306-8784

      WOOD DESK w/ 6 drawers, 60"x35"x33", recessed glass top, $125; Nordic
      Track Walkfit treadmill, $75, Steve, X6228

   Wanted

      CAR AND LAPTOP COMPUTER donation for the Flying Samaritans, a group of
      volunteer physicians, nurses, dentists and others who run the Alma
      Luminosa clinic which provides free medical and dental care in Baja
      California, Mexico. The clinic needs (1) a car, van or pickup truck to
      transport clinic staff and patients (need not pass smog check just as
      long as the klunker runs) and (2) a laptop to track patient medical
      histories; all donations are tax deductible, Drew Kemp, X5789, 524-7165
      eve

   Free

      TV CONSOLE w/ out the TV, 43.5"w x 33.5"h x 19"d, can hold 3 VCRs or
      DVDs, up to 20" TV, combo solid wood (walnut), veneers and plywood,
      weighs approx 200 lbs, you pick up, Brian, X4677

   Lost & Found

      FOUND: expensive ski jacket on walk down the hill to UCB on Cyclotron
      Rd, David or Victoria, 236-9383

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Flea Market Policy

      Ads are accepted only from LBNL employees, retirees, and onsite DOE
      personnel. Only items of your own personal property may be offered for
      sale.

      Submissions must include name, affiliation, extension, and home phone
      number. Ads must be submitted in writing via e-mail
      (fleamarket@lbl.gov), fax (X6641), or delivered/ mailed to Bldg. 65B.

      Ads run one issue only unless resubmitted, and are repeated only as
      space permits. They may not be retracted once submitted for
      publication.

      The deadline for the Dec. 7 16 issue is Thursday, Nov. 29.
