http://www.trade.wa.gov/tradeinfo.htm

                  Washington State CTED International Trade

                       International Trade Information

   Trade Statistics
   Import and Export totals for Washington State. For statistics prior to
   1997, please contact us at the International Trade office in Seattle or
   complete the information request form at the bottom of the trade
   statistics page.

   "Foreign Exports & the Washington State Economy"
          Documents the importance of exports to the Washington State
          economy

          "Foreign Imports & the Washington State Economy"
          Documents the importance of imports to the Washington State
          economy.

   CTED International Trade Division Brochure This is a downloadable file
          in a .PDF format, you will need Adobe^® Acrobat Reader^®
          [getacro.gif]

   Guide to US Government Export Trade Lead Sites
   Due to the frequent changes on the Internet, these sites are subject to
   change without notice. Please note that the Trade Information Center is
   not responsible for the content of the web sites listed.

   Import/Export Guide
   A basic how-to guide to help you get started importing and/or
   exporting. Also available in .PDF format, you will need Adobe^® Acrobat
   Reader^® [getacro.gif] to open or view the file.

   NASDA Listing - National Association of State Development Agencies
   Would you like to contact another state about international trade and
   investment? Get the contact information from the NASDA list here.

   Economic Development Councils
   Washington State Economic Development Councils contact list

   Washington State Public Port Districts
   Contact Information for all port districts in Washington State

   Consular Association of Washington
   Contact information for the consulates in the state

   Sister City Affiliations
   Washington State Sister City Affiliations, with links to Sister County,
   Port and State Affiliations.

   Tools of the Trade
   A list of Washington State organizations involved with international
   trade.

   Washington State Foreign Trade Zones
   A list of all the FTZ's in Washington State

   Washington State Directory of Products & Services
   For Infrastructure Development of the Russian Far East

   Online Resources
   Some helpful trade related links...

   Washington State Trade Facts
   A few interesting trade facts for Washington State

   Glossary of International Trade Terms
   Find definitions for international trade terms that are used
   frequently.

   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                        Last modified: July 20, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
