http://www.state.gov/r/pa/rls/dos/221.htm

    globe                                             U.S. Department of State
          lines
                                   Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

          About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
          Abroad
          Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
          Education and Culture
          Business Center Other Services Employment

   [Print Friendly Version]


      Major State Department Publications

         America's Overseas Presence in the 21st Century
         The Overseas Presence Advisory Panel (OPAP) is evaluating how best to
         organize and manage the United States overseas presence represented by
         thirty Federal agencies (excluding military) to reflect recent changes
         in technology, and world politics and economy. Only extensive and
         fundamental reform of America's overseas presence will enable the U.S.
         to maintain the global presence necessary to protect its interests and
         promote its values.

         Annual Budget Requests
         Summary and Highlights provides information about the International
         Affairs category of the federal budget, called Function 150, which
         includes funding for the programs and activities of four cabinet
         departments, seven independent agencies, three foundations, and
         numerous other international organizations. Budget in Brief provides
         more specific information about the Department of State budget.
         Congressional Budget Justification provides detailed information about
         the Foreign Operations portion of Function 150.

         Battling International Bribery
         Annual report by the Department of State on enforcement and monitoring
         of the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in
         International Business Transactions of the Organization for Economic
         Cooperation and Development (OECD).

         Consular Notification and Access
         Instructions for Federal, State, and other Local Law Enforcement and
         Other Officials Regarding Foreign Nationals in the United States and
         the Rights of Consular Officials to Assist Them.

         Country Background Notes
         These handy guides provide information on a country's leaders,
         politics, economy, and relations with the U.S. Note: Background Notes
         appear on the Department's web site before they are sent to press for
         GPO subscribers.

         Country Commercial Guides
         Country Commercial Guides (CCG's) are prepared annually by U.S.
         embassies with the assistance of several U.S. government agencies.
         These reports present a comprehensive look at countries' commercial
         environments, using economic, political and market analysis. The CCG's
         were established by recommendation of the Trade Promotion Coordinating
         Committee, a multi-agency task force, to consolidate various reporting
         documents prepared for the U.S. business community.

         Diplomatic List
         This publication contains the names of the members of the diplomatic
         staffs of all missions and their spouses. Members of the diplomatic
         staff are the members of the staff of the mission having diplomatic
         rank. These persons, with the exception of those identified, enjoy full
         immunity under provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
         Relations.

         Dispatch Magazine
         The United States Department of State Dispatch provided key speeches
         and testimony by senior State Department officials as well as current
         U.S. treaty actions from 1990 to December 1999. As the Internet has
         become a more popular source of current, timely information, the
         magazine ended with the December 1999 issue. Back issues from January
         1993 through December 1996 are available on the Department's archive
         through the federal depository library of the University of Illinois at
         Chicago at http://dosfan.lib.uic.edu/. Issues released between  January
         1997 and ending with December 1999 are available on the
         Department's archive web site at
         http://www.state.gov/www/publications/dispatch/index.html.

         The U.S. Department of State: A Guide to Doing Business
         Lists useful information concerning the Department's procurement
         opportunities, points of contact, subcontracting opportunities, etc.
         This can be obtained in hard copy from the Superintendent of Documents.

         The Great Seal of the United States
         A publication on the history and official use of The Great Seal of the
         United States. [Note: You will need to use Adobe Acrobat Reader to
         access this 980KB .pdf file.] This publication, No. 10411, also is
         available for sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
         Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

         Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
         Annual report submitted to the Congress by the Department of State
         regarding the status of internationally recognized human rights
         practices.

         International Narcotics Control Strategy Report
         Annual report submitted to the Congress by the Department of State, in
         accordance with the Foreign Assistance Act, which describes the efforts
         of countries, including those that received U.S. assistance, in the
         fight against drugs, and on Presidential narcotics certification
         determinations on drug producing and transit countries.

         International Religious Freedom Report
         The Annual Report to Congress on International Religious Freedom
         describes the status of religious freedom in each foreign country, and
         government policies violating religious belief and practices of groups,
         religious denominations and individuals, and U.S. policies to promote
         religious freedom around the world. It is submitted in compliance with
         P.L. 105-292 (105th Congress) and is cited as the International
         Religious Freedom Act of 1998.

         Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
         This directory lists key officers and their telephone and fax numbers
         from the Departments of State and Commerce, and other U.S. agencies at
         Foreign Service posts who assist American business representatives
         around the world.

         Annual Report on Military Expenditures
         These reports are submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the
         U.S. Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the U.S. House of
         Representatives by the Department of State in accordance with section
         511(b) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
         Programs Appropriations Act, 1993.

         Patterns of Global Terrorism
         Annual report submitted to the Congress on detailed assessments of
         foreign countries where significant terrorist acts occurred, and
         countries about which Congress was notified pursuant to the Export
         Administration Act of 1979 (the so-called terrorism list countries that
         have repeatedly provided state support for international terrorism).

         Country Reports On Economic Policy and Trade Practices
         Annual report submitted to the Congress with economic policy and trade
         practices of countries with which the United States has significant
         economic or trade relationships.

         Foreign Relations of the United States
         This historical record of American foreign policy is produced by the
         State Department's Office of the Historian. First published in 1861,
         Foreign Relations of the United States preserves a key part of American
         history in more than 350 individual volumes. Each volume documents the
         major foreign policy decisions and diplomatic activity of the U.S.
         Government and contains declassified records from the White House, the
         Department of State, and other foreign affairs agencies.

         Foreign Consular Offices in the U.S.
         This publication contains a complete and official listing of the
         foreign consular offices in the United States, and recognized consular
         officers.

         State Magazine
         Published monthly by the Department to facilitate communication between
         management and employees at home and abroad and to acquaint employees
         with developments that may affect operations or personnel.

   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
