http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERJ/NJ500186.HTML

   noaa logo NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE      Operations Manual
                                                      SILVER SPRING,
   MARYLAND 20910    Letter 1-86

   Date of Issue:     January l6, 1986                      Effective
   Date:     January l6, 1986

   In Reply Refer To:   W/MB3                         File With:   J-50

   Subject:     Forecaster Development Program

   Reference(s):

   Cancels: OML 7-82 dated August 23, 1982, filed with J-50 (formerly
   I-50), Placement and Career Progression of Meteorologists at WSO's

   I.    General

       This document describes the National Weather Service (NWS)
   Forecaster Development Program which replaces the Meteorologist Hiring
   Program (OML 7-82) the major elements of which are retained, i.e., (1)
   the hiring of newly degreed meteorologists for formal and on-the-job
   training at full-service Weather Service Offices (WSO's), (2) the
   conversion and crossover of meteorologist-qualified met techs, and (3)
   the development and progression of both toward assignments as
   forecasters. All commitments made to employees hired into the Met
   Hiring Program shall be honored.

   The purposes and goals of the NWS Forecaster Development Program are:

   - to provide a single coordinated system for hiring all entry level

   meteorologists into the NWS workforce;

   - to attract and retain the best qualified meteorologist candidates to
   replace the loss of experienced forecasters through attrition;

   -     to meet the changing needs at all field stations for new kinds
   and levels of skills in meteorology and in new technologies;

   - to provide uniform training and work experience to enable newly hired
   meteorologists to progress to full performance forecaster positions;

   - to provide a systematic, centrally-controlled mechanism for
   indoctrination, orientation, screening, and preliminary training for
   all newly hired meteorologists; and,

   - to provide met techs who have acquired the necessary qualifications
   the opportunity to convert to meteorologists and to progress to full
   performance forecaster positions.

       The Forecaster Development Program consists of the following two
   phases.

   In the Intern phase, applicants are hired at the GS-1340-5 (or
   GS-1340-7) level, assigned to a full-service WSO or WSFO Public Service
   Unit for training and familiarization, and advanced non-competitively
   to the GS-1340-9 level after having satisfied all requirements.

   In the Forecaster Development phase, after selection from competitive
   promotion panels, employees are assigned to a forecaster position at an
   NWS office with forecast responsibility for on-the-job training and
   further development toward a full performance forecaster position,
   GS-1340-11/12.

   II.    Hiring

       Candidates will be hired by the regions from Office of Personnel
   Management (OPM) meteorologist registers or from among Graduate
   Scientist/Cooperative Education candidates. (During the phase-in period
   of this Program, meteorologists hired as met techs under the previous
   Meteorologist Hiring Program described in OML 7-82 may be considered
   for lateral conversion into the Intern phase of this Program.) The
   intake of Interns and the selection of candidates will be the
   responsibility of the regions. In determining the intake rate of
   Interns, the regions should consider the number of NWS
   meteorologist-qualified met techs available.

       Normally, hiring of meteorologists in this Program will be at the
   GS-5 level; exceptionally well-qualified candidates may be hired at the
   GS-7 level, subject to OPM qualification standards. Nothing in this
   Program shall preclude the hiring of fully qualified meteorologists for
   appropriate positions not covered by this program from other agencies,
   from among reinstatement eligible, or from OPM registers at grades
   above the Intern level. However, the major NWS emphasis for the hiring
   of forecasters will be through the NWS Forecaster Development Program
   which includes the crossover of NWS meteorologist-qualified met techs.
   All newly hired Interns will be scheduled to report to National Weather
   Service Training Center (NWSTC) for the first available resident
   training course after completion of the prerequisite on-station
   training.

   III.    Training

       Under this Program all training, other than on-the-job training,
   will be administered by NWSTC under the Forecaster Development Course
   (FDC) .

   Successful completion of all training is required for retention and
   promotion under this program.

   ^1 (The FDC is being developed for implementation by late 1985)

   Training during the Intern phase of the program will consist of:

     1. on-station training modules (provided by the NWSTC) as
     pre-requisites to the resident training course,

     2. 5 weeks of resident training at the NWSTC, and

     3. post-resident training modules provided by the NWSTC and
     administered on station.

   Training will include orientation and familiarization with NWS
   structure and operations, and will be designed to prepare participants
   to:

     1. observe, record, prepare, and transmit: - surface observations, -
     radar observations, and - rawinsonde observations; (as applicable)

     2. compile and assimilate weather data and to interpret and analyze
     guidance products,

     3. prepare forecasts, statements, watches, warnings, and advisories
     for media dissemination;

     4. prepare and deliver weather briefings;

     5. prepare and deliver a NO M Weather Radio broadcast; and

     6. perform other duties, such as collect data from cooperative
     observers, operate and maintain, as required, all WSO equipment,
     maintain climatological records, and respond to requests for public
     weather information.

       During the Forecaster Development phase training will continue with
   special assignments and NWSTC training modules.

   IV.    Assignment

       The first duty assignment of an Intern will be to a trainee
   meteorologist position at a WSO with full service programs to include
   observations, dissemination, briefing, adaptive forecasting, and
   warning responsibility. The Intern will encumber an existing WSO
   position as a Meteorologist Intern. Ideally, only one Intern should be
   assigned to a WSO at one time. However, in special situations
   additional Interns may be assigned. All other WSO positions will be
   filled in the customary manner. Public Service Units (PSU's) located in
   Weather Service Forecast Offices (WSFO.s) will also be used as duty
   assignments for Interns. Such assignments may be evaluated at a future
   date to determine effectiveness of training and familiarization.

       Interns will receive assignments which are progressive in nature
   and level of difficulty, and which require increased and progressive
   levels of meteorological knowledge, skill and ability. This will
   include initial familiarization with and practical experience in the
   conduct of all duties in the assigned office, and special training and
   developmental assignments. Training assignments will include
   directed-study training modules supplied by NWSTC as part of the FDC.
   Developmental assignments will include such activities as community
   liaison, special local forecast application studies, special AFOS
   applications, and disaster preparedness activities.

       A standard position description and attendant GWPAS core
   performance elements for Interns will be issued by WSH for use by all
   regions. Training and other special assignments will be critical
   elements in the Intern's appraisal plan and the standard for a fully
   successful rating will include satisfactory completion of all training
   and special assignments. Performance appraisal under the standard
   Intern GWPAS plan will be the basis for personnel actions (promotion,
   reassignment, termination) affecting the Intern.

   V.    Progression

       Interns who have satisfied all training and eligibility
   requirements will progress without further competition at 2-grade
   intervals to GS-1340-g Intern (graduate) level. Upon promotion to OS-9,
   Interns (graduate) shall compete for developmental assignments leading
   to a full-service forecaster position, GS-11 or GS-12. In exceptional
   cases, a GS-7 may be selected for a Forecaster Development position
   upon completion of all training requirements and with prior approval of
   WSH. In order to prevent "logjams" in the program, Interns (graduate)
   will be limited to a maximum of 2 years after promotion to GS-9 in
   which to compete for a Forecaster Development position. If after 2
   years at the GS-9 level an Intern (graduate) has not been selected for
   a Forecaster Development position, the employee may elect to: (1)
   convert to met tech in order to compete for subsequent promotion (if
   applicable) as a met tech or (2) remain in the GS-9 position as a
   meteorologist. In either case, the employee may continue to compete for
   Forecaster Development positions.

       The normal progression within this Program and approximate time
   frames are as follows:

     -- initial assignment of 2 years in the Intern (training) phase at a
     WSO/WSFO PSU (GS-S, GS-7);

     -- an undefined period not to exceed 2 years as an Intern (graduate)
     at the WSO/WSFO PSU (GS-9) competing for a Forecaster Development
     position; and,

     -- 2 years of development to a full performance forecaster (GS-11,
     GS-12).

   VI.    Met Tech Conversion

       The basic concept of conversion and crossover of qualified met
   techs shall be preserved. Since special in-service placement provisions
   of the OPM qualification requirements allow for conditional acceptance
   of technical experience in place of professional experience, many
   weather service specialists (GS-9, 1D, & 11) will possess the necessary
   experience to accomplish conversion. The meteorologist grade to which a
   candidate may crossover will be determined by an evaluation of
   applicable experience according to OPM standards. However, all
   conversion candidates are required to meet the OPM educational
   requirement for satisfactory completion of a minimum of 20 semester
   hours of college academic credit in meteorology, which includes 6 hours
   of dynamic meteorology and 6 hours of weather analysis and forecasting
   (synoptic meteorology), 6 hours of college physics, and both
   differential and integral calculus.

       Met techs who have completed these requirements are eligible to
   compete for Forecaster Development positions. In cases where there is a
   question concerning the granting of credits, applicants may submit
   transcripts and other credentials to the servicing Personnel Office and
   request a determination as to compliance with the OPM qualification
   standards.

   VII.    Forecaster Development Positions

       Forecaster Development positions will be advertised via vacancy
   announcements with national distribution. Both Intern (graduates) and
   meteorologist-qualified met techs may apply. Selections will be made
   using merit promotion procedures. Applicants should be aware that
   career development in the NWS is enhanced by mobility.

       All Forecaster Development positions will be advertised as GS-9/12
   forecaster positions at a WSFO, or as GS-9/11 special forecasters
   (e.g., agriculture, fire weather). Where qualified, GS-II special
   forecasters may compete for a GS-12 full service position at a WSFO. -

   VIII.    Monitoring the Program The regions will be responsible for
   monitoring the program. WSH will conduct a survey to coincide with the
   annual meeting of the Training Review Board with questionnaires to the
   regions to determine such things as:

        - Number of Interns hired this year
        - Total number of Interns on board
        - Number of Interns selected for forecaster development this year
        - Total number of "graduate" Interns on board
        - Number of met
        -qualified met techs on board
       - Number of met
       -qualified met techs selected for forecaster development
       - List of WSO's with the number of Interns at each
       - List of WSFO's with the number of Interns at each
       - Number of Intern separations or conversions.

       Deviations from the procedures established in this OML must be
   coordinated with the Workforce Management Unit, W/MB3, prior to
   implementation.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Assistant Administrator
       for Weather Services
     __________________________________________________________________

     1) Will new Met Interns be considered as part of the normal staffing
     at WSO's?

     Yes, the current and future budget picture will not afford the NWS
     with the flexibility for dedicated training positions. Obviously,
     there will be an initial period of familiarization and on-the-job
     training for new Met Interns before they will be able to perform all
     functions at the WSO.

     2) What will happen to the Met Intern who fails the 5 week course at
     NWSTC? Will Met Techs who convert to Met be required to attend the
     Met Intern course?

     The 5 week Forecaster Development Course (FDC) is designed to
     parallel the Forecaster Development Program phases. Met Interns
     (Phase I) will attend the FDC at or near the beginning of their
     employment with the NWS. The FDC will equip the Interns with the
     basics of weather service operations, organization, analysis and
     interpretation techniques, and forecasting. Since these new
     employees will attend the course during their 1year probationary
     period, passing the FDC is critical. Met Techs who convert to Met
     will normally make the conversion into a forecaster development
     position (Phase II) and attend the FDC. Passing the FDC is also
     critical for those who convert. In either case, those. who fail the
     FDC may be subject to removal from the program

     3) What types of correspondence courses will the Met Intern be
     required to complete while in On-Station training. Will these
     courses be available for Met Techs? If the courses are available for
     Met Techs, will they be accredited and count toward conversion?

     The on-station portions of the FDC will be supported by OJT
     materials developed and supplied by the NWSTC. For Interns,
     on-station training is a requisite for further advancement and will
     be in observations, pilot weather briefing, communications,
     relations with the community and the media, and climatology. For
     Mets in forecaster development positions, on-station training
     modules will cover topics appropriate to the assigned office, such
     as general public forecasting, aviation, marine, agriculture, fire
     weather, satellite focal point, warning/preparedness, etc. Much of
     the on-station training for Interns is already available to Met
     Techs. The on-station training for forecaster development positions
     is oriented to on-the-job application by meteorologists at WSFO's.

     Several NWS Courses taught at the NWSTC are not accredited, but
     rather, are recommended for credit by the American Council on
     Education (ACE). The Forecaster Development Course and related
     on-station training have not yet been reviewed by the ACE. It is
     very possible that the ACE will recommend academic credit for the
     FDC at a later date.

     4) How will consideration for the acceptance of technical experience
     in place of professional experience be given?

     To determine whether an individual is qualified as a meteorologist,
     ASC personnel offices use the OPM qualification standards for
     meteorologists from OPM Handbook X-118. Generally, meteorologist
     positions at GS-7 or higher require 1 or more years of professional
     experience at the lower grade levels. OPM normally interprets
     professional. experience as work performed in a meteorologist
     position. However, the technician experience can be accepted as
     equivalent to professional experience under certain circumstances.
     Most Weather Service Specialists can be converted to Met based on
     their experience, provided that the minimum educational requirements
     for meteorologist positions are met (20 semesters hours in
     meteorology from an accredited college or university which includes
     6 hours in weather analysis and forecasting, 6 hours in dynamic
     meteorology; and, in addition, differential, and integral calculus,
     and 6 hours of college physics).

     5) Who will train Met Interns while at the WSO?

     As in most cases of on-the-job training, the training will be
     accomplished by a blend of formal resident training, programmed
     instruction at the field office, and one-on-one hands-on training
     accomplished by the office chief and office staff members.

     6) Who will administer the Met Intern program nationwide? How will
     the program be monitored to assure that the individual regions
     provide equitable treatment in hiring, training, and bidding on full
     performance forecaster positions?

     Overall policy direction for and monitoring of the Forecaster
     Development Program will be accomplished at the national level by
     the Workforce Management Unit, W/MB3. The Program will be
     administered by the Regional Directors. The OML, which describes the
     program, identified a number of reporting mechanisms which will
     provide data for the monitoring of the program to ensure equitable
     treatment.

     7) Will qualified Met Techs at grades GS-6 and GS-8 be downgraded
     upon conversion to the Met Intern program? Will Met Techs in grades
     GS-10 and GS-II be downgraded upon selection to a full performance
     forecaster position? Will saved pay provisions apply?

     No hard and fast rule can be made as to whether a downgrade will
     result from a conversion of Met Tech to Met. The grade of the
     employee making the conversion will be determined by the outcome of
     an analysis of the employee's individual qualifications and
     background with respect to the OPM qualifications standard. Since
     the meteorologist advances at two grade-level intervals (e.g.,
     GS-5,7,9), a Met Tech at a OS-6, 8, or 10 level, in most cases,
     would have to accept a voluntary downgrade to GS-5,7,9. Many GS-7,9,
     or 11 level Met Techs may be reassigned in grade; others may lack
     the full range of required qualifications for a lateral change.
     Saved pay provisions are applicable to this program, in accordance
     with FPM Chapter 536, subchapter 3-2a, and other governing
     regulations.

     8) What happens to Met Techs who attempt to convert to Met, but for
     some reason are not selected?

     Met Techs will convert to Met primarily through successful
     application to forecaster development positions or other
     meteorologist positions. If unsuccessful, such Met Techs should
     continue to apply to as many available positions as possible until
     they are successful.

     9) Will qualified Met Techs and Met Interns be considered on an
     equitable basis when bidding on full performance forecaster
     positions?

     Yes. One of the major emphases of the program is the conversion of
     our long-standing, experienced Met Techs to Meteorologist status and
     positions. Met Techs, by virtue of their more extensive experience,
     should be as competitive.

     10) What kind of mobility will be expected of newly hired Met
     Interns, or Met Techs who convert?

     Unlike the previous Met Intern program, mobility is not a major
     requirement of the Forecaster Development Program. Mobility will be
     left to the individual employee's selection of positions (and
     locations) for which he/she applies and is selected. It should be
     noted, however, that the lack of voluntary mobility or lack of
     interest in obtaining meteorologist qualifications will inhibit
     further promotion potential.

     11) Under what circumstances will more than one Met Intern be
     assigned to a WSO?

     An intent of the program is to hire only one Met Intern at each
     participating full service WSO. However, our experience has been
     that at an office where recruitment is extremely difficult or where
     there is a large amount of turnover in a short time period, hiring
     additional Met Interns may be the only practical method of filling a
     position with the alternative of leaving a position unfilled. Each
     Regional Director must assess mission and program needs in deciding
     whether an additional Intern should be assigned.

     12) Which courses currently available to the Met Tech through the
     NWSTC are applicable toward OPM educational requirements? Does the
     WSO course meet any of the meteorology requirements? How about
     courses from the Department of Agriculture?

     Several NWSTC courses are recommended for academic credit by the
     American Council on Education (ACE), which evaluates non-collegiate
     education. However, to be applicable for the OPM qualifications
     requirements, credit must be actually given by an institution
     authorized to grant academic credit, e.g., colleges and
     universities. Several years ago the NWS established a mechanism for
     the award of credit for NWSTC courses through a program of the
     Regents College of the State University of New York. Information on
     this program can be obtained from the NWSTC.

     The WSO course has been recommended by the ACE for 3 credit hours of
     meteorology which, upon actual award of credit satisfies the first 3
     of the 6 required hours in weather analysis and forecasting
     (synoptic meteorology). OPM has, in the past, accepted the Dynamic
     Meteorology I and II courses provided by the USDA Graduate School as
     fulfilling the X-118 requirements for dynamic meteorology. (It is
     our understanding that this course is currently unavailable due to a
     USDA Graduate School curriculum revision effort.)

     13) Are Met Techs eligible for university assignments under the
     current program to augment their qualifications?

     Yes. In fact, over the past 3 years, the primary emphasis of the NWS
     University Assignment Program has been in assisting met techs in
     obtaining academic credit towards conversion to meteorologist. That
     primary emphasis continues and will continue for the coming years.

     14) Will individuals who meet OPM meteorologist qualifications but
     who were hired as Met Techs be given priority over new hires in
     selection for the Intern phase?

     We will take action to convert any meteorologist qualified employees
     hired as Met Techs under Section I of OML 7-82 to Met Interns, if
     they are interested in conversion. Such employees need merely to
     indicate their interest to the Region Headquarters through normal
     supervisory channels and action will be initiated. This change will
     allow subsequent career ladder promotions only within the bounds of
     the program, i.e., noncompetitive promotions up to the GS-9 level.
     This only applies to meteorologist-qualified Met Techs hired under
     OML 7-82, Section I.
