http://www.mocbhe.gov/MOSTARS/lshome.htm

                                                              Back to MDHE

             Life Sciences at Missouri Colleges and Universities

   In 1998, Missouri identified life sciences (biomedical/biotechnology
   fields) as one of three high-demand occupational categories in the
   state. The other two are the computer-related fields and advanced
   manufacturing. These targeted disciplinary areas have been
   characterized as pivotal for the future of the state. Missouri
   possesses strong assets in the plant and life sciences that offer
   tremendous potential for the state's economy. The Battelle Memorial
   Institute is helping the state by conducting a study of the state's
   resources and potential for growth in the life sciences. Dr. Walter
   Plosila of the Battelle Memorial Institute gave a preliminary report
   (Adobe Acrobat PDF 776 KB) at the December 6, 2001 Governor's
   Conference on Higher Education in Kansas City.

   Missouri's higher education has an important role to play in life
   sciences. Public and independent colleges and universities in the state
   have teamed up with the life sciences industry and state government to
   provide education and training in the life sciences at different levels
   -- ranging from the certificate level to the graduate and professional
   levels. This partnership has created a very productive environment for
   research in the life sciences.

   Missouri has 4 medical schools, 1 dental school, 1 school of veterinary
   medicine, 1 optometry school, 2 doctor of pharmacy programs, and 10
   institutions awarding 49 doctorates in biological sciences. Financial
   assistance is available for programs in the life sciences -- including
   certificates and associate, baccalaureate, graduate, and professional
   degrees -- offered by Missouri colleges and universities.

   Links to other life science initiatives and programs in Missouri:
     * Missouri Life Sciences Research Account
     * The Missouri Department of Economic Development
     * The Kansas City Area Development Council
     * The role and impact of industry, government, and higher education
       in life sciences in Missouri

   For more information, please contact:

     Cleopas T. Samudzi, Ph.D.
     Commissioner's Associate for Life Sciences Initiatives, and
     Senior Associate for Academic Affairs
     Missouri Department of Higher Education
     3515 Amazonas Drive
     Jefferson City, MO 65109
     Telephone: (573) 751-1790
     Fadx: (573) 751-6635
     E-mail: cleo.samudzi@mocbhe.gov
