http://plan.cancer.gov/inbrief/execsum.htm

   Skip Navigation
   Plans and Priorities for Cancer Research [USEMAP:navmap.gif]

                                            _____________ Search

                              Directors message
                              Executive summary
                           Highlights of progress
                             2003 Budget Request
    Scientific Priorities for Cancer Research Extraordinary Opportunities
          Infrastructure Needed for Cancer Research NCIs Challenge
                                  About NCI
           Planning National Agendas in Disease-Specific Research
     Additional Cancer Information for Patients and Health Professionals


   printer Print this page
   envelope Email this page
   dictionary Define terms on this page

   Executive Summary

      The National Cancer Institute's goal is to stimulate and support
      scientific discovery and its application to achieve a future when all
      cancers are uncommon and easily treated. NCI works toward this goal in
      two major ways.
        * We provide vision to the Nation and leadership for NCI-funded
          researchers across the United States and around the world.
        * We work to ensure that the results of research are used in clinical
          practice and public health programs to reduce the burden of cancer
          for all people.

      Each year, we support some 5,000 principal investigators in the pursuit
      of a broad range of research from studies of the causes and incidence
      of cancer, to translational research and clinical trials, to
      survivorship and end-of-life issues. NCI also funds cancer centers,
      collaborative research teams, cancer control, and training, education,
      and career development activities.

      Our future planning encompasses three key components required for a
      strong cancer research enterprise:
        * Maintain a sound research infrastructure and build capacity for the
       future (NCI's Challenge).
     * Capitalize on opportunities in broad scientific areas
       (Extraordinary Opportunities for Investment).
     * Assess and plan for research related to specific types of cancer,
       such as breast or lymphoma (Planning National Agendas for
       Disease-Specific Research).

   Our total Fiscal Year 2003 Budget Request is $5,690,000. This
   represents an increase of $1,512,796 over the Fiscal Year 2002
   President's Budget. Of this increase, $305,753 will be provided to
   continue NCI commitments into 2003 (Core Budget). An additional
   $878,193 will be used for NCI's Challenge, and $328,850 will support
   Extraordinary Opportunities for Investment. Funding for
   disease-specific research is included in nearly all of the Challenge
   and Opportunity areas.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

NCI's Challenge

   Major breakthroughs depend on building and sustaining the strong
   research mechanisms, support structures, and collaborations that will
   enable us to pursue rapidly evolving discoveries in all areas of cancer
   research. NCI must provide the vision, creative environments, and
   diverse resources needed to ensure a smooth flow between advances in
   knowledge and their application.
   Enhancing Investigator-Initiated Research
   Centers, Networks, and Consortia
   National Clinical Trials Program in Treatment and Prevention
   Studying Emerging Trends in Cancer
   Quality of Cancer Care
   Reducing Cancer-Related Health Disparities
   Informatics and Information Flow
   Cancer Research Training and Career Development

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Enhancing Investigator-Initiated Research

   Investigator-initiated research has always been the driving force
   behind advances in biomedical research. Our challenge is to provide
   scientists with opportunities to pursue as many promising research
   ideas as possible while at the same time supporting each project with
   sufficient funds to cover the growing costs of research. NCI gives
   special consideration to proposals from clinical researchers and those
   who respond to announcements of priority research areas. We seek to
   maximize the pace of discovery by providing a broad range of flexible
   funding options and promoting collaborations and resource sharing.

   With increased funding in 2003, we will:
     * Support research projects at the full levels recommended by peer
       reviewers and fund the top 35 percent of competing grant
       applications.
     * Continue to allocate the first 80 to 90 percent of available funds
       for research project grants through conventional selection
       processes while ensuring that proposals from new investigators are
       also funded, and that exceptions funding is available to support
       particularly innovative and potentially high reward projects.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Centers, Networks, and Consortia

   The rapid pace of scientific and technological discovery is creating
   opportunities that require interaction among scientists of diverse
   backgrounds, sometimes located in physically distant sites. The
   challenge for NCI is to create research settings that encourage the
   multidisciplinary collaborations needed to address the big picture
   problems in cancer research. To meet this challenge, we continue to
   support NCI-designated Cancer Centers, Centers of Research Excellence,
   and various research networks and consortia that enable scientists from
   different disciplines to work together, share information and
   resources, and experience the synergism that often catalyzes new
   discovery.

   In 2003, NCI will use new funding to:
     * Increase support to Cancer Centers for new technology development,
       improved informatics capabilities, and clinical and population
       research infrastructure.
     * Expand and enhance the Specialized Programs of Research Excellence
       based on needs for disease-specific research.
     * Implement a Strategic Supplement Program to take advantage of high
       priority opportunities that can be completed in short time frames.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

National Clinical Trials Program in Treatment and Prevention

   Our intricate clinical trials system relies on cooperation and
   collaboration among patients, investigators, industry, academia, and
   NCI. Adding to this complexity, cancer clinical trials have undergone
   dramatic changes in recent years, as the result of progress in cancer
   biology, imaging technology, and advances in informatics and electronic
   communications, generating both the need and the possibility for more
   trials involving much larger numbers of health care providers and
   patients. While NCI-supported clinical trials have incorporated many
   changes, reimbursement to health care providers has not kept pace and
   participation in clinical trials remains lower than ideal. Our
   challenge is to minimize the barriers to participation in clinical
   trials while ensuring that we capitalize on the latest developments in
   cancer research, informatics, and management.

   With adequate funding in 2003 NCI will be able to:
     * Improve patient access to and the rate at which trials are
       completed by increasing the per patient reimbursement for trials,
       doubling the number of patients accrued to trials, providing
       funding for healthcare providers to follow patients and report
       outcome and other data, and expanding the Clinical Trials Support
       Unit.
     * Expand funds for clinical correlative studies, fund tissue and
       specimen banks, create collaborations for multi-institutional
       clinical trials, and step up development and assessment of
       promising targeted prevention and treatment agents.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Studying Emerging Trends in Cancer

   NCI must continue to build a versatile cancer surveillance system that
   fully represents the diversity of our nation's population and more
   accurately tracks the Nation's cancer burden. This information is
   needed to help researchers form hypotheses and to provide communities
   with the information they need to strengthen cancer prevention and
   control. NCI works with partners to develop a more robust system,
   create analytical tools for research and cancer control, and find
   effective ways to disseminate surveillance information.

   In 2003, we will use additional funding to:
     * Augment and refine our surveillance system.
     * Keep pace with a rapidly changing cultural, social, and
       technological milieu.
     * Continue to build systems that better track cancer trends,
       highlight research needs, explain causes of cancers, identify
       individuals at greatest risk, and support community cancer control.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Quality of Cancer Care

   The quality of cancer care is a major national concern. Evidence
   suggests that some patients with cancer do not receive the newer, more
   effective treatments, and there is often uncertainty about what
   constitutes optimal care. To address these concerns, NCI is helping to
   enhance the information base for cancer care decision making through
   improvements in data collection and the development of better measures
   for comparing cancer treatments and outcomes. Furthermore, we are also
   investing in studies to examine the quality of cancer care and in
   demonstration projects to ensure that the delivery of care reflects the
   latest findings from cancer research.

   With funding increases in 2003, NCI will engage in activities to:
     * Improve measurement of patient-centered outcomes in cancer.
     * Support innovative research on the diffusion, quality, and outcomes
       of cancer interventions.
     * Enhance quality-of-care research within the NCI clinical trials
       program.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Reducing Cancer-Related Health Disparities

   To effectively reduce cancer-related health disparities, NCI must make
   new research investments to explain the social, cultural,
   environmental, biological, and behavioral determinants of cancer, the
   interactions among them, and the mechanisms by which they contribute to
   disparities in cancer care and prevention. Our efforts include support
   to the NCI-sponsored Special Populations Networks for Cancer Awareness
   Research and Training, examination of specific ways in which cancer
   incidence and mortality are disproportionate for certain populations
   (e.g., cervical cancer in rural U.S.), development of patient education
   materials for low-literacy populations, collaborations to increase
   access to and involvement in clinical trials, and training for new
   scientists focused on health disparities.

   In 2003, we will use funding increases to:
     * Expand our research efforts in gap areas.
     * Foster better dissemination and use of research findings.
     * Further increase access to clinical trials by special population
       groups.
     * Support new Centers for Population Health and Cancer and special
       grants for continuing education of health care providers.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Informatics and Information Flow

   To assist the cancer research community in keeping pace with the flood
   of information stemming from new scientific discovery, NCI needs to
   develop and provide informatics systems that facilitate resource
   sharing and the translation of emerging findings into public health
   benefits. NCI has built a Cancer Informatics Infrastructure to supply
   standardized bioinformatics support and integration of NCI's diverse
   research initiatives. Within this framework, we are developing the
   innovative tools required to connect people with necessary information.

   In 2003, we will use funding increases to:
     * Enhance integration of the data and tools resulting from NCI's
       priority initiatives.
     * Establish informatics applications and services based on a common
       set of operating principles and standards and make them available
       to cancer researchers.
     * Support planning and public communication activities.
     * Establish a network of bioinformatics research centers.
     * Provide funding supplements to NCI-supported research organizations
       for development of informatics systems.
     * Promote informatics training for biomedical research settings.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Cancer Research Training and Career Development

   Scientists of the future will need to be trained in multiple
   disciplines, able to work in teams to understand the multifaceted
   nature of cancer, and better prepared to translate discoveries into
   public benefit. NCI is employing a variety of individual and
   institutional training and career development awards to meet the needs
   of new and established investigators and NCI's anticipated research
   priorities. We have focused increased resources on career development
   for M.D.s in cancer research, behavioral and population scientists,
   minority scientists, and scientists in highly technical fields
   important to the future of cancer research. We also are more
   effectively integrating education programs for health practitioners and
   the public through improved national networking and use of
   communication technologies.

   We will use new funding in 2003 to:
     * More adequately prepare scientists to work in multi-disciplinary
       environments.
     * Reverse the migration of physicians from research to practice.
     * Increase the number of population, behavioral, and public health
       scientists.
     * Create a research workforce that is ethnically and racially
       diverse.
     * Attract and integrate technical and informatics experts into cancer
       research.

   More on this challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Extraordinary Opportunities for Investment

   NCI's focus on six priority areas with extraordinary potential to
   impact the pace and direction of cancer research have shown significant
   results and will be continued into 2003.
   Genes and the Environment
   Cancer Imaging
   Defining the Signatures of Cancer Cells
   Molecular Targets of Prevention and Treatment
   Research on Tobacco and Tobacco-Related Cancers
   Cancer Communications

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Genes and the Environment

   As we better understand the interplay between inherited susceptibility
   to cancer and environmental risk factors, we will be able to develop
   more meaningful approaches to cancer prevention, early detection, and
   treatment. NCI has begun building capacity in this area through
   consortia of investigators who are pooling data and resources to
   compile the large data sets required for this kind of study. We also
   are examining approaches for assessing and measuring environmental
   exposures, advancing research to discover and characterize cancer
   predisposing genes, and supporting the development of a number of tools
   for use in gene discovery and characterization such as mouse models of
   human cancers. We also have established an infrastructure to support
   intervention trials on inherited susceptibility to cancer.

   In 2003, NCI will use new funding to:
     * Support studies to identify additional environmental risk factors
       and susceptibility genes and determine their interactions.
     * Develop new ways to assess and measure environmental exposures.
     * Identify and investigate how other genes and environmental factors
       modify the expression of cancer predisposing genes.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Cancer Imaging

   With the power of new imaging technology, researchers and health care
   providers can generate much clearer and more detailed pictures of
   organs and tissues, and they can use "functional imaging" for the
   visualization of physiological, cellular, or molecular processes in
   living tissue. NCI has supported In Vivo Cellular and Molecular Imaging
   Centers to provide essential infrastructure and career stability to
   investigators in this emerging field. We also are fostering the
   development of new imaging contrast agents and molecular probes, making
   equipment and personnel available to improve technologies and
   techniques for imaging small animals, and assessing the value of
   computed tomography scanning in screening patients for colon cancer
   ("virtual colonoscopy").

   With new funding in 2003, NCI will be able to advance imaging
   technology development and use by:
     * Expanding the discovery, design, and development of novel imaging
       agents and devices.
     * Integrating molecular and functional imaging methods into
       therapeutic clinical trials.
     * Increasing clinical trials of imaging methods and technologies.
     * Accelerating the development and clinical testing of image-guided
       interventions.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Defining the Signatures of Cancer Cells

   With the aid of new technologies, scientists are working to read and
   understand the unique, identifiable characteristics of cancer cells
   known as molecular signatures. Our ability to read these signatures
   will allow us to differentiate among tumors at the molecular level and
   devise treatments targeted at specific cancers. NCI provides
   researchers with a variety of resources for study in this area such as
   catalogs of molecular changes in cancer, tissue resources, and
   informatics tools. The Early Detection Research Network has begun
   describing molecular signatures that may be used for the early
   detection of breast, esophageal, and other cancers.

   New funding in 2003 will be used to:
     * Expand the development and availability of molecular and analytic
       resources.
     * Make tissue resources available to researchers.
     * Apply molecular signatures to the study and validation of animal
       models for human cancer.
     * Support new approaches for the early detection and diagnosis of
       cancer.
     * Characterize aberrant molecular interactions in cancer.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Molecular Targets of Prevention and Treatment

   Our increasing knowledge of the molecular changes that cause a cell to
   become cancerous is opening a whole new avenue to drug development.
   Agents that target these molecular changes have potential to
   selectively delay, stop, or reverse the growth of cancer cells without
   harming surrounding healthy tissue and promise to be less toxic and
   more effective than current drugs. To respond to this research
   opportunity, NCI has rallied the necessary resources for laboratory,
   animal, and clinical studies and has begun to identify numerous
   potential molecular targets as an early step in cancer prevention and
   treatment drug discovery.

   NCI will use new funding in 2003 to:
     * Distinguish and use cellular targets for the discovery of new
       anti-cancer agents.
     * Develop assays to identify possible treatments for cancer.
     * Acquire large libraries of natural and synthetic compounds.
     * Develop a translational research program that will closely link
       molecular imaging, cancer signatures and molecular targets.
     * Facilitate the steps necessary to turn a compound into a targeted
       drug ready for clinical use.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Research on Tobacco and Tobacco-Related Cancers

   The devastating impact of tobacco use and tobacco smoke exposure on the
   incidence of cancer is both compelling and conclusive. We need to
   better understand the genetic, biological, behavioral, and social
   components of tobacco use, addiction, smoking cessation, and how to
   prevent, detect, and treat tobacco-related cancers. New evidence is
   helping to better explain why some people are more vulnerable than
   others to DNA damage caused by tobacco exposure. Research on the early
   detection of lung cancer suggests that it may soon be possible to
   identify cancers in smokers and former smokers at a much earlier and
   more treatable stage. Recent studies of teen smokers have identified
   psychological factors that increase the risk of becoming addicted.

   NCI will use new funds in 2003 to:
     * Expand efforts to define the biological, behavioral, and social
       bases of tobacco use and addiction.
     * Accelerate progress in understanding the interplay among tobacco,
       other exposures, and genetic susceptibility.
     * Develop, test, and disseminate more effective interventions to
       prevent and treat tobacco use and tobacco-related cancers.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Cancer Communications

   People now have more ways than ever to get information, and the future
   holds even more choices. NCI is working to optimize the use of
   communication tools to meet the information needs of various groups
   while enhancing the absolutely essential interaction of patients with
   their doctors and nurses. Digital Divide Pilot Projects have
   demonstrated the potential for using computer technology to address the
   information needs of underserved populations. Five new Centers of
   Excellence in Cancer Communications Research will be established in
   2002 to encourage focused interdisciplinary studies, increase the
   number of investigators, and train scientists to conduct cutting-edge
   research directly.

   In 2003, we plans to:
     * Expand activities to more fully address the communication needs of
       underserved populations.
     * Continue the Centers of Excellence.
     * Provide support for the dissemination of research results.
     * Add to the menu of communication choices available for information
       about cancer.

   More on this Extraordinary Opportunity

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Planning National Agendas for Disease-Specific Research

   While we have learned much that is broadly applicable to cancer through
   our core research programs and Extraordinary Opportunity initiatives,
   NCI must be equally alert to the specific tendencies and behaviors of
   each unique type of cancer. This is why NCI plans, promotes, and
   carries out an ambitious program of disease-specific research, charting
   the course for these efforts primarily through advice from experts
   participating in Progress Review Groups (PRGs).

   NCI carefully addresses PRG recommendations by
     * Modifying and supplementing existing research programs
     * Encouraging scientists to apply for disease-specific research
       funding.
     * Developing new initiatives when needed.

   PRGs have been completed or are underway for breast, prostate,
   colorectal, pancreatic, lung, gynecologic, kidney and bladder cancers,
   brain tumors, and leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma. PRGs on
   stomach/esophageal, liver/bile duct, and skin cancers are planned.

   More on Disease-Specific Research

                                                               Top of Page
   line

                 The Nation's Investment in Cancer Research

                  NCI's Budget Request for Fiscal Year 2003

                           (dollars in thousands)


         Base of Fiscal Year 2002 President's Budget     $4,177,204
         Increase to Core Budget                            305,753
         NCI's Challenge Increase
         Enhancing Investigator-Initiated Research          121,543
         Centers, Networks, and Consortia                    81,250
         National Clinical Trials Program                   433,000
         Studying Emerging Trends in Cancer                  22,700
         Quality of Cancer Care                              14,000
         Reducing Cancer-Related Health Disparities          52,700
         Informatics and Information Flow                    95,000
         Cancer Research Training and Career Development     58,000
                                      Subtotal Challenge    878,193
         Extraordinary Opportunities Increase
         Genes and the Environment                           55,500
         Cancer Imaging                                      69,800
         Defining the Signatures of Cancer Cells             75,000
         Molecular Targets of Prevention and Treatment       42,500
         Research on Tobacco and Tobacco-Related Cancers     67,000
         Cancer Communications                               19,050
                                  Subtotal Opportunities    328,850
                            Total FY 2003 Budget Request  5,690,000

   View the Expanded Budget Request

                                                               Top of Page

Home | Site Map | FAQs | PDF | Privacy Policy | Accessibility | Contact Us
Last updated 11.15.01 (smz)

   W3C Validated

   Other U.S. Government Resources

   National Institutes of HeALT (NIH)
   Department of HeALT and Human Services
   FirstGov
       _______________________________________________________________
