http://aro.oar.noaa.gov/ARO_3_happenings.html

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Image of a sea gull in flight Arctic Research Office Banner
   graphical arch element

What's Happening?

   A workshop was held on July 25-26, 2001, to discuss activities that
   could be undertaken in the Arctic by NOAA as part of its new Ocean
   Exploration Initiative. The President's request for FY2002 includes
   funds for Ocean Exploration; and, if an appropriation is made for this
   purpose, there is a reasonable chance that an Arctic expedition will be
   undertaken. Read a summary of the workshop: notes from a
   "brainstorming" session, a summary of specific geographic targets for
   an Arctic expedition, and a list of workshop participants. Click here
   for a list of letters of interest that were submitted in response to an
   open call prior to the workshop.

   In a two-year study by NOAA's National Marine Mammal Laboratory, with
   support from Fisheries-Oceanography Coordinated Investigations (FOCI)
   and the Arctic Research Initiative, Beth Sinclair and her co-workers
   sampled mesopelagic fish and squid of the Bering Sea . These creatures
   are an under-studied part of the food web. They have little direct
   commercial value but are the food for many of our most valuable fish,
   sea birds, and endangered marine mammals: walleye pollock, Pacific
   halibut, Dall's porpoise, northern fur seal, Steller sea lion, puffin,
   murre, and kittiwake. Without an understanding of this important link
   in the food chain, our understanding of ecosystems and our ability to
   manage them is incomplete.

   In December 2000, the Arctic Research Office supported a workshop on
   Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) in the U.S. Arctic. The purpose of
   the workshop was to help assure adequate U.S. participation in Phase II
   of the AMAP assessment process. The workshop leader was Peggy Krahn of
   NOAA's National Marine Fisheries Service, and the workshop was held in
   Seattle, Washington. Read a brief report on the workshop.

   The Arctic Research Initiative supported a project on "Ecosystem
   analysis and modeling of eastern and western Bering Sea living marine
   resources." This international project involving NOAA's Alaska
   Fisheries Science Center and the Russian institute of Fisheries and
   Ocean Research is helping to elucidate ecosystem production and
   pathways in the eastern and western Bering Sea shelf and slope regions
   through the development of mass-balance models of those areas. Click
   here to read a report on the project. Click here to access the figures
   associated with the report.


   Graphic depicting the NOAA Logo, NOAA Research Identifyier, Privacy
   Notice, and Disclaimer


      || HOME | Overview | People | Projects | Happenings | Opportunities |
                                   Partners ||
                        || Privacy Notice | Disclaimer ||
