http://www-e835.fnal.gov/~stephen/e835loiv2.ps

   May 29, 1997 Dr. John Peoples Jr. Director, Fermilab, MS 105 Dear John,
   This is the Letter of Intent to extend the E835 experiment to the
   proposed 1999 fixed target run The E835 collaboration The E835
   experiment studies the spectroscopy of charmonium states formed in pp
   annihilations. It is installed at the antiproton accumulator and it
   consists of an internal hydrogen jet target and a non magnetic
   spectrometer for the detection of the electromagnetic decays of
   charmonium. The higher priority goals of the experimental program of
   E835 are: 1. The search for the j 0 c(2 1S 0) and measurement of its
   mass and width. 2. The measurement of mass and width of the jc and of
   the partial width to flfl. 3. The confirmation of the 1P1 state and
   measurements of its mass and width. 4. The study of the O/0 resonance.
   5. A search for the missing D states. So far we have performed a search
   for the j 0 c over a wide energy range (3576!E cm !3660 MeV) and with a
   sensitivity for BR(j 0 c ! pp)\Theta BR(j 0 c ! flfl) of ! 10 \Gamma 7
   for a total width of the resonance * 5M eV . We have not found a
   statistically significant enhancement due to jc' in the mass region
   scanned so far. We are at present completing a scan of the jc resonance
   which will yield , 4 times the data collected at this resonance by
   E760. We have also taken a substantial amount of data at the O/2
   resonance which will allow us to improve significantly on the
   measurements of the decay width to flfl and of the angular
   distributions of the radiative decay. Data were also collected at the
   J= and 0 resonances mainly for calibration purposes. For these
   measurements we have used a total luminosity of 75pb\Gamma 1. The
   performance of the experimental apparatus has been very satisfactory so
   far, allowing us to use the available beam with very high efficiency.
   The only major problem was given by the silicon detector that, because
   of an accident in the control system, became very noisy a few days
   after the beginning of data taking; however this only impaired our
   ability to study the OEOE final state and had no other consequences on
   our data taking program. It should also be mentioned that recently we
   have replaced the forward electromagnetic calorimeter to improve on the
   acceptance for the 1P1 ! + ss0 channel. This was done without
   interfering with data taking using scheduled shutdowns for
   installation. In contrast, the performance of the accumulator has been
   disappointing. In particular, the deceleration to energies below
   transition has so far been rather poor. Its low efficiency has caused
   much lost time and considerably slowed down the jc scan. Since the
   accumulated luminosity so far amounts to less than 10 pb\Gamma 1 per
   month it is inconceivable to reach the 200 pb\Gamma 1 we have been
   approved for. As a consequence we will certainly not be able to
   complete the physics program. For this reason the possibility of having
   another run in 1999 is welcomed by the collaboration. The physics goals
   of the 1999 run will, of course, depend on how much of the experimental
   program of E835 will be accomplished by the end of the current run. At
   this point this is a difficult prediction to make, as it will be
   significantly affected by the performance of the accumulator in the
   remainder of the run. We are not sure if our objectives for jc, j0c and
   the 1P1 will be fully realized. Further, we are quite sure that we will
   not be able to make the most time consuming measurements in our physics
   2 program, i.e. the O/0 scan and the search for the D states, which are
   thus the most likely candidates for the 1999 run. For the O/0 scan we
   will measure the J= + fl and flfl cross sections, in order to determine
   the resonance mass and total width, as well as its partial width to two
   photons. For the D state search we plan to scan the energy region above
   the 0(3686), measuring the inclusive cross section pp ! J= + X. Both
   measurements are of considerable physics interest. Whether we will be
   able to carry out both in the 1999 run will depend on the amount of
   luminosity delivered. We would like to consider augmenting our
   originally proposed program with a direct measurement of J=-nucleon
   cross section by scanning for the Fermi-broadened J= resonance in a
   heavy gas target. Such a measurement is expected to be of importance in
   evaluating the usefulness of J/psi attenuation as signal of QGP
   formation in heavyion collisions. The study of these channels does not
   require a major upgrade of the experimental apparatus. We plan to
   remove the detector immediately after the end of the present run and
   refurbish the inner detectors. We are considering various options for
   the replacement of the silicon detector, in case it will not be
   possible to repair it. In this framework we do not anticipate the need
   for a large technical support for the detector by the lab. We will
   however require the attention and significant support of the antiproton
   source department if the run is to be successful. Sincerely yours,
   Rosanna Cester for The E835 Collaboration 3
