http://louisville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/louisville/job.htm

                                    APPLICANT RECRUITING
                                    LOUISVILLE DIVISION

       To carry out its mission, the FBI needs men and women who can fill
       a variety of demanding positions.  To qualify for training as an
       FBI Special Agent, you must be a U.S. citizen or a citizen of the
       Northern Mariana Islands, at least 23 and not more than 36 years of
       age.  Candidates must be completely available for assignment
       anywhere in the FBI's jurisdiction, have uncorrected vision not
       worse than 20/200 (Snellen) and corrected 20/20 in one eye and not
       worse than 20/40 in the other eye.  All candidates must pass a
       color vision test and possess a valid drivers license.
       All Special Agent candidates must hold a degree obtained in a
       four-year resident program at a college or university that is
       accredited by one of the six regional accredited bodies of the
       Commission on Institutions of Higher Education.
       Special Agent candidates are recruited from their local field
       office.  If you are living within the Louisville Division's
       territory, direct your inquiries to the address below.  If you are
       living outside the Louisville Division's territory, the address to
       the nearest field office are located at the FBI Field Office page.

   Applicant Coordinator
       Federal Bureau of Investigation
       600 Dr. MLK, Jr. Pl., Rm. 500
       Louisville, Ky 40202
       (502) 583-3941

   In addition to Special Agent positions, the FBI periodically hires
   support personnel in variety of positions.  For further information on
   the Special Agent position or professional support positions, or to
   apply on-line for specific professional support vacancies at FBI
   Headquarters and in the 56 field offices as well as for information on
   FBI policies and practices, please visit the FBI's Employment Page.

                      Link to FBI Louisville Home page
