http://www.wff.nasa.gov/pages/educationoutreach.html

   Skip past navigation links Return to Wallops Home Welcome to Wallops
   Doing Business with Wallops Programs and Projects
   Technical Capabilities Public and Education Outreach Supporting NASA's
   Enterprises

   Public and Education Outreach

   CAPTION: Education Outreach Links

Public Outreach
Education Outreach
NASA Public Affairs Office
GSFC Public Affairs Office
Site Map

Education Outreach

     * Education Resource Center
     * Speakers Bureau
     * Flight Education Programs
     * Partnership Activities
     * Internship/Cooperative Programs

   Opening young minds to the wonders of Earth and space sciences is a
   NASA mission embraced by Wallops. Our long history of supporting
   education and our unique capabilities make Wallops an ideal laboratory
   for the development of aerospace education. Students of all ages
   benefit from Wallops programs and resources.
     * We develop, test and fly/operate hardware on site.
     * We implement diverse activities, including rockets, balloons,
       scientific aircraft, remotely piloted aerial vehicles, Space
       Shuttle payloads, small satellites, data instrumentation, launch
       range projects and research airport projects.
     * Our flight programs are comparatively low-cost and have a short
       life cycle.

   rocket launch Weekly programs, hands-on exhibits and the opportunity to
   earn a "Space Ace" certificate and lithograph are educational
   activities hosted by the Wallops Visitor Center. Each program is
   designed to enable children to explore and learn about the technologies
   and information designed and used by NASA researchers and scientists.
   In addition, Wallops reaches out with educational programs that bring
   science to the community. Our multi-talented personnel enjoy working
   with the community to further our mission of educating the public. We
   tailor our programs to the needs of our audience and often involve
   direct participation.

   One Saturday a month, for example, we invite model rocketry enthusiasts
   to bring their own rockets and launch them at our launch range. Wallops
   personnel also participate, launching models of various rockets and
   explaining the payloads they carry in real life.

   If you are interested in participating in a Wallops program or would
   like to find out more about one of our activities or how we can
   accommodate your educational requirements, please contact:
   Keith.A.Koehler.1@gsfc.nasa.gov.

To Top

Education Resource Center

   Earth and space science educational materials designed for all ages are
   available to local educators at our Education Resource Center (ERC).

   Classroom-oriented publications are available on a variety of topics,
   including the following:
     * Planets
     * Astronomy
     * Aeronautics
     * Space Shuttle
     * Life in space
     * Careers
     * The environment.

   Wallops personnel also are happy to consider special requests and will
   work with educators to customize materials to the age group and topic.

   Educators may copy videotapes, using their own VHS tapes. A list and
   description of the tapes is available at the ERC. Because of a limited
   number of machines, reservations are requested for videotaping.

   The ERC, located at Wallops Visitor Center, is open Tuesday through
   Saturday July and August, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Educators may call the
   ERC during operating hours at (757) 824-2214.  Educators also are
   invited to use the Educator Resource Center at the Goddard Space Flight
   Center. For more information, write or call the Educator Resource
   Center, Goddard Space Flight Center, Code 130.3, Greenbelt, MD 20771;
   (301) 286-8570 (Voice and TDD).

To Top

Speakers Bureau

   Each year, Wallops personnel visit schools, participate in programs
   from scouting activities to state fairs, make television program
   appearances and are interviewed for newspaper articles about Wallops
   activities (local and national press) as part of our outreach programs.
   Wallops personnel are available to talk to school classes and
   educational and community groups within the local commuting area on
   former and current NASA and Wallops programs. We regularly participate
   in career days at local schools to describe employment opportunities
   and serve as judges in regional science fairs. Communities also
   represent Wallops activities through exhibits at local functions. To
   arrange a speaker, contact: Elizabeth.B.Flowers.1@gsfc.nasa.gov .

To Top

Flight Education Programs

   Wallops participates in a number of flight education programs designed
   to excite youth about NASA`s space-related activities. For additional
   information, please contact: Keith.A.Koehler.1@gsfc.nasa.gov .

To Top

Student Launch Program

   NASA competitively select universities to develop scientific
   experiments to fly on rockets and balloons through the Student Launch
   Program. Students participate in the full flight-project process,
   including integration of flight instruments with the carrier,
   pre-mission testing, launch operations, recovery and data reduction and
   analysis. The Student Launch Program has grown to support three
   sounding rocket and three balloon missions every two years for
   university undergraduate programs.

Space Experiment Module

   The Space Experiment Module (SEM) Program is an education initiative
   sponsored by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
   Shuttle Small Payloads Project.  SEM is a FREE program providing
   nationwide educational access to space for Kindergarten through
   University level students.  The SEM Carrier System is a self-contained
   system in a five cubic foot “Get Away Special” (GAS) canister
   containing ten experiment modules. GAS and SEM are ongoing orbital
   payload projects managed by Wallops.

Get Away Special Payloads

   The Small Self-Contained Payload (SSPP) Program, popularly know as the
   Get Away Special (GAS) Program, provides an opportunity for U. S.
   educational organizations to fly a small experimental payload on a U.
   S. Space Shuttle Mission for a nominal fee.GAS payloads must contain
   research and development-oriented experiments, although NASA does not
   judge the scientific merit of the payloads. GAS is also available to
   other U.S. and international individuals and organizations, both public
   and private. GAS and SEM are ongoing orbital payload projects managed
   by Wallops.

NSIP Flight Opportunity Week

   The NASA Student Involvement Program (NSIP), a national competition,
   now includes two of Wallops Flight Education Programs.  The Shuttle
   Small Payloads Project Space Experiment Module (SEM) and the Suborbital
   Sounding Rocket Student Experiment Module (Sub-SEM) programs are part
   of the annual NSIP Flight Opportunity competition for students in
   grades 9 – 12 (teams of 2-4).

   SEM is best suited for microgravity experimentation while Sub-SEM is
   best for experiments in physics, instrumentation, and atmospheric
   experimentation.

To Top

Partnership Activities

   Wallops is actively seeking educational partnerships that will bring
   students to Wallops to use the facilities and share the expertise of
   our employees. Two such partnerships currently exist.
     * Wallops has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with the University of
       Maryland-Eastern Shore (UMES), a historically minority university,
       to promote collaborative activities that will lead to new
       educational opportunities for UMES students. The programs will
       incorporate Wallops` unique capabilities in UMES educational
       programs, such as using the Wallops research airport in support of
       their Aviation Science Program, allowing video students to film
       Wallops launches and providing flight opportunities on sounding
       rockets.

   For additional information, contact: David.L.Pierce.1@gsfc.nasa.gov .

To Top

Internship/Cooperative Programs

   Wallops provides valuable work experiences for high school and college
   students by employing them within organizations related to their field
   of interest. For additional information, contact:
   Keith.A.Koehler.1@gsfc.nasa.gov .
     * Summer High School Apprentice Research Project (SHARP). Wallops
       provides work experience for minority high school students during
       the summer months by employing them in technical and administrative
       positions.
     * Teacher Internships. Regional educators work with Wallops engineers
       and scientists to expand their knowledge of Earth and space
       sciences.
     * Co-op Program. College students receive valuable work experience
       through positions with Wallops-based organizations related to their
       major field of study. The Co-op Program is the principal source of
       new permanent employees at Wallops. Due to current hiring
       limitations, this program presently is inactive.
     * Graduate Research Studies. Wallops participates in the Goddard
       Research Studies Program that provides opportunities for graduate
       students to select research topics related to Wallops activities
       and use our facility resources as necessary to pursue their
       research.
     * Space Club Scholars. Wallops provides summer work opportunities
       with our engineers and scientists for high school students.
       Students are compensated by the National Space Club.


   To NASA
   To NASA Concact Wallops
           Contact Wallops Wallops Home
                           Wallops Home
