http://jlevine.lbl.gov/BenStackintro.html




                              THE BENTHIC STACK

      A new stacked record of global climate of the last 850,000 years

                      Daniel B. Karner, Jonathan Levine
                    Brian P. Medeiros, Richard A. Muller

                            Department of Physics
                     University of California, Berkeley


                   How did we construct the Benthic Stack?

                            See the Benthic Stack

                       Download the Benthic Stack data

                          Previous work on ice ages

   Stacked records of isotope variations in marine foraminifera have
   proven to be useful measures of climate change.  Previous stacks,
   including the Pacemaker, SPECMAP, and Low Latitude stacks, explored the
   complex changes in surface water conditions during the past few
   hundreds of thousands of years.  The stacking of multiple records seeks
   to suppress local variations, which might be found in one record, by
   averaging together many records from different parts of the world.  In
   this way, it is hoped, a global signal will emerge in the average.

   Benthic foraminifera, because they live in the deep ocean, are less
   sucseptible to local climate fluctuations than are their cousins in
   near-surface water.  First of all, the ocean bottom is insulated from
   seasonal changes, wind, and weather by the enormous amount of water
   overlying it.  Second, because of the sheer volume of the deep ocean,
   and because of the way the oceans mix, any slight variations which
   penetrate to the deep part of the ocean will necessarily be very small
   by the time the small fluctuations spread out along the ocean bottom.
   The accumulation of small, but measureable, fluctuations in isotopic
   composition of benthic foraminifera gives us an estimate of how climate
   all over the world has changed through time.

   The Benthic Stack provides us with a record of global climate for the
   past 850,000 years.  In that time, there have been about ten major ice
   ages (it depends on what you count), and the same number of relatively
   warm periods in between.  We are in such warm period right now.  The
   quantity which is measured, d^18O, is the difference between the
   isotopic ratio of oxygen in the foraminifera which lived at a
   particular time in the past and that same ratio is a standard
   material.  During an ice age, a significant fraction of the world's
   water is stored as ice on large continental glaciers.  The ice tends to
   be more isotopically light than the rest of the ocean, leaving the
   foraminifera to draw their oxygen from an isotopically heavier
   reservoir.  Thus, foraminiferal shells from an ice age are themselves
   isotopically heavier (i.e. they have a higher d^18O) than are shells
   from warm interglacial periods.  Temperature probably also plays a role
   in how foraminifera extract the different isotopes of oxygen from the
   ocean water around them.  In cooler water, it is easier for
   foraminifera to incorporate the heavier isotope into their shells than
   it is in warm water.  So, in cold ice ages, foraminifera are even more
   isotopically heavy than during warm interglacials, because the effects
   of ice volume and temperature add together.  An important question for
   the future is how to separate the effects of temperature and ice volume
   on benthic foraminifera.

   The biggest issue in constructing a stacked record is determining the
   ages of the sediments taken from many different parts of the ocean.
   For sediments this old, carbon dating isn't possible.  Other
   radioisotopic dating schemes are impracticable except in rare cases,
   because there isn't enough radioactive material in ocean sediment.
   Instead, we developed age models for each of the records we analyzed by
   orbital tuning to the Earth's obliquity cycle.  The Earth's spin axis
   wobbles up and down every 41,000 years, and this makes the seasons less
   - and then more - intense.  The effect on many aspects of climate is
   profound, and there is a 41,000 year cycle observed in many different
   climate records.  In sediment cores, these changes might be seen a
   little shallower or deeper than expected because of changes in
   sedimentation rates over time.  Tuning is the process by which we align
   these 41,000 year climate changes with a true 41,000 year cycle, using
   this signal to set the timing of all the other climate changes in the
   sediment records.

   The tuning process does have a danger of circular reasoning, and so we
   are careful to use only "minimal tuning."  We tuned only the 41,000
   year, and we never tuned to precession (which varies with several
   periods near 20,000 years), eccentricity (400,000 years, 125,000 years,
   and 95,000 years), or orbital inclination (100,000 years).  Therefore,
   we can use the Benthic Stack to assess which of these other orbital
   forcing mechanisms are truly affecting global climate.  In fact, the
   largest variations in benthic d^18O occur every 100,000 years, which is
   a good match for orbital inclination, but not for eccentricity.
   Precession, which affects the amount of sunlight reaching the Earth, is
   responsible for not more than 3% of the climate changes in the benthic
   stack.   These observations show that a portion of Croll/Milankovitch
   theory, which links precession and eccentricity to the 100,000 year
   glacial cycle, cannot explain the ice ages.


   How did we construct the Benthic Stack?

   See the Benthic Stack

   Download the Benthic Stack data

   How does the Benthic Stack compare with other data?

   Previous work on the ice ages





   If you have questions, e-mail Daniel B. Karner
   last modified June 25, 2001
