http://atmos.jpl.nasa.gov/labstudy.htm

                              [lab_banner.gif]

   Current Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratory Studies:

   •Chemical Kinetics and Photochemistry
   •Infrared Spectroscopy
   •Microwave and Submillimeter Wave Spectroscopy




                                  [kinetics.gif]

                    Chemical Kinetics and Photochemistry

       The JPL laboratory kinetics group measures the rate of many
   reactions on the surface of aerosols, clouds, and in the gas phase that
   are relevant to our understanding of stratospheric and tropospheric
   ozone. The group uses measurement techniques such as discharge-flow,
   flash-photolysis and laser-photolysis, mass spectrometry, and laser
   resonance fluorescence. Several members of this group are members of
   the NASA Panel for Data Evaluation, which publishes approximately every
   two years a document entitled "Chemical Kinetics and Photochemical Data
   for Use in Stratospheric Modeling." This document provides a
   comprehensive review of the kinetics literature since the last
   evaluation and makes recommendations regarding the reaction rates and
   absorption cross sections that should be used for quantitative studies
   of ozone.


                               [fts_tank.gif]

                            Infrared Spectroscopy

       The JPL Infrared Spectroscopy Group measures line positions and
   strengths as well as pressure broadening coefficients of many molecular
   species that are of atmospheric interest. This data is critical for
   both in situ and remote measurements of many gases by instruments built
   at JPL and at many other institutes. Spectroscopic features are also
   used to gain insight into the fundamental structure of molecules. Most
   infrared spectroscopic measurements are made using the McMath Fourier
   Transform spectrometer housed at the Kitt Peak National Observatory in
   Tucson, Arizona. The Kitt Peak facility is operated by the National
   Solar Observatory (NSO), which is a division of the National Optical
   Astronomy Observatories (NOAO). Measurements of short-lived radical
   species are made at JPL using a high resolution Bomem Fourier Transform
   Spectrometer.
       JPL spectroscopists also compile and merge databases from different
   investigators in order to make comprehensive electronic data records
   for inclusion into the widely used HITRAN (High Resolution
   Transmission) database.  The construction of electronic databases is a
   critical part of the analysis of data from remote sensing instruments
   such as those onboard the NASA EOS (Earth Observing System) and UARS
   (Upper Atmospheric Research Satellite) satellites.


                                [labstu1.jpg]

                Microwave and Submillimeter Wave Spectroscopy

       The JPL Microwave Spectroscopy Group provides millimeter and
   submillimeter frequencies, linewidths and transition moments of upper
   atmospheric species either being sought by the various observing
   programs or having the potential of being observed by instrumentation
   under development by NASA. It directly supports the UARS and MLS
   programs. It also supports the development of submillimeter radiometers
   such as the one proposed for EOS and provides useful spectroscopic
   parameters to the infrared spectroscopy programs. There is a continuing
   collaboration with the chemical kinetics task that is directed toward
   identification of transient halogen oxide and halo-acid species and the
   determination of their structures.


   [Back to the Atmospheric Chemistry Homepage]

   Author: Randall R. Friedl
   Page Design: Aaron Milam
