http://www.gradphys.bnl.gov

BNL Physics Graduate Student and Postdoc Club

                        Privacy and Security Notice .

   Welcome to the BNL Physics Graduate Student and Postdoc Club. This
   group meets typically ever-other Wednesday for the expressed purpose of
   eating free pizza, shooting the breeze, and finding out just a little
   bit about what else is going on at BNL. The group is composed of
   graduate students and postdocs who find themselves doing physics
   research at Brookhaven Lab. Now, we all know that nothing is free, and
   the next question is, what do I have to do to get the pizza??? Well we
   ask only one thing in return for the wonderful gourmet meal we will
   provide meeting after meeting, and that is your first born child, OR a
   small (40-60 min) talk on the kind of research that you are involved
   in. It seems there are people who believe that there is a world outside
   of the immediate field that we find ourselves working in at the moment
   (I'm not sure I believe it myself). Anyway, these informal meetings are
   organized for the following reasons:
     * To give each of us some small exposure to the rest of the
       scientific world
     * To give each of us an opportunity to deliver a talk in a friendly,
       pressure free environment (rumors of our ripping the flesh from
       live speakers are greatly exaggerated)
     * Most importantly to gorge ourselves on free pizza.

                                 [pizza.jpg]

   So if you find yourself even mildly interested in the idea, please come
   to the talks, and please put yourself on the E-mail distribution list.
     * When: Every other Wednesday or so at 5:30 pm; see the current
       schedule .
     * Where: Bldg 510 (Physics) Small seminar room (follow the smell of
       the pizza)
     * Who's in charge: Robin Appel is (appel@bnl.gov). However, I could
       really use help recruiting speakers, picking up pizza, whatever.
       The club would really benefit from another volunteer (and, for the
       volunteer, this is a great opportunity to become involved in the
       BNL physics community). Please contact me if you are interested.
       Thanks to volunteers recruiting speakers and for help picking up
       pizza.

   "I'd like to join a club and beat you over the head with it."

   "I would NEVER join a club that would have me as a member"

   -Groucho Marx

   [left-hand.gif]
   Current Schedule of Talks

   [left-hand.gif]
   The E-Mail distribution list

   [left-hand.gif]
   Article from the BNL Bulletin Thanks to Tim Piazza for setting up this
   web page initially and to David White for running the club for the last
   couple of years. This page is currently maintained by Robin Appel,
   appel@bnl.gov.
