http://airr.ecy.wa.gov

   Link to Access Washington [Airquality1.gif]

   > Ecology Home > Air Quality Home Other Topics Contact Us
               Welcome
               Data by County
               Data by Pollutant
               Site Status
               Visit Monitoring Sites
               Air Quality Home
               Other Air Quality Topics
               What is the AQI?
   clear pixel [aqilogo1.gif]
   clear pixel

                  Ambient Air Quality Data and Information

   Carbon Monoxide Pollution:   Carbon monoxide is a by-product of all
   kinds of burning: motor vehicle engines, factory boilers, wood stoves,
   and open burning. Motor vehicle exhaust is the leading source of carbon
   monoxide pollution. The number of motor vehicles in use and the miles
   traveled are increasing faster than population in Washington. Click
   Here

   Wood Smoke:   A growing body of evidence suggests that we cannot ignore
   the medical consequences of extensive exposure to wood smoke. This
   booklet presents some current air quality data, and information
   extracted from medical research on the health effects of household and
   neighborhood wood smoke. Click Here

              The data on this site has not yet been validated!
   The data presented in this site is intended as an indicator of current
   air quality only. It has not been through the quality assurance process
    and is not yet considered official. The data presented here does not
    represent the total monitoring effort in Washington State. Pollutants
       that don't have an Air Quality Index, manual method particulate
   monitors, monitors in remote locations and other monitors not connected
               to the telemetry system are not presented here.
   Other Air Quality Topics
   Automobile Emissions
   Air Quality Program Priorities for 2001-2003
   Business Information - Stationary Sources
   Business Information - Emission Inventory
   Small Business Assistance Program
   Agriculture - Palouse Website for Information on smoke, dust and haze
   Agricultural Information and News Releases
   Best Management Practices, Cereal and NonCereal Grains Crops
   Open (Outdoor) Burning
   Woodstoves and Fireplaces
   Construction Dust Information
   Air Monitoring Procedures
   Asbestos Information
   Air Quality Regulations
   Local Air Agencies
   News Releases and Current Updates
   Permit Register
   PSD Permits
   Just for Kids

   If you have comments or questions about this web site please send me an
                                   email.
                                 Click Here
