http://www.ask.hrsa.gov

   HRSA Information Center
     1-888-Ask HRSA DHHS Logo

   E-mail the HRSA Information Center About HRSA Search HRSA Publications
   Search Resources Order HRSA Publications

   Publications, Resources, and Referrals on health care services for
   low-income, uninsured individuals and those with special health care
   needs You have selected 0 items to be ordered.





   HRSA Information Center Home Page
   Community Health Resources
   Health Care Quality
   Health Professions Training
   HIV/AIDS
   Managed Care
   Maternal and Child Health
   Minority Health
   Oral Health
   Organ and Marrow Donation
   Primary Health Care
   Rural Health
   Women's Health
   First Gov site

   - HRSA Publications Catalog
   Printed in September 2001, this catalog lists materials developed by
   HRSA Bureaus and Programs that are available from the HRSA Information
   Center. Each citation includes a brief abstract and year of
   publication. Order your copy today.


   Promoting Rural Health
   Brochure provides a brief introduction to the Office of Rural Health
   Policy. Includes information on the Rural Health Grant Program, RICHS,
   and the Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility Grant Program.
   - Oral Health and Learning
   Fact sheet describes the relationship between oral health and learning
   in children. For example, pain and discomfort associated with dental
   problems can hinder school performance and attendance. Programs that
   provide oral health services, including those funded by Maternal and
   Child Health Services Block Grants to States, are described.


   Child Health USA 2001
   This is the 12th annual report on the health status and service needs
   of America's children. It provides both graphical and textual summaries
   of data and addresses long-term trends where applicable. Data are
   presented for the target populations of Title V funding: infants,
   children, adolescents, children with special health care needs, and
   women of childbearing age.



               Spring 2001 Silver World Wide Web Health Award


                              HRSA Newsletters

   NHSC In Touch

   HRSA Center for Health Services Financing and Managed Care

   MCHB Title V Today

   EMSC News

   Health Workforce Newslink

   Opening Doors: Health Care for the Homeless

   HRSA CARE Action Newsletter

   Healthy Schools Healthy Communities Newsletter

                              HRSA Information

   HRSA State Profiles

   Community Health Status Indicators Project

   HRSA's Child Health Programs



                                  Calendar

   HRSA Newsroom Calendar
   A listing of speeches, conferences, and events.

   Privacy Policy

   Home | E-mail the HRSA Information Center | About HRSA | Publications |
    Resources | Order Publications | Community Health Resources | Health
   Care Quality | Health Professions Training | HIV/AIDS | Managed Care |
   Maternal and Child Health | Minority Health | Organ and Marrow Donation
     | Oral Health | Primary Health Care | Rural Health | Women's Health
