http://www.tahoecons.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                           CTC Home Page
                           Programs
                           Board
                           Library/Data Downloads
                           Current Information
                           Job Opportunities
                                 CTC image



                       California Tahoe Conservancy

   "The California Tahoe Conservancy's mission is to preserve, protect,
   restore, enhance and sustain the unique and significant natural
   resources and recreational opportunities of the Lake Tahoe Basin."



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA
                          Get a
   Tahoe
   License
   Plate
   Click for information about the Tahoe License Plate
   California Tahoe Conservancy

   The Conservancy is an independent State agency within the Resources
   Agency of the State of California. It was established in its present
   form by State law in 1984 (Chapter 1239, Statutes of 1984). Its
   jurisdiction extends only to the California side of the Lake Tahoe
   Basin. The Conservancy is not a regulatory agency. It was established
   to develop and implement programs through acquisitions and site
   improvements to improve water quality in Lake Tahoe, preserve the
   scenic beauty and recreational opportunities of the region, provide
   public access, preserve wildlife habitat areas, and manage and restore
   lands to protect the natural environment.
     * Progress Report
       This report is an update of the California Tahoe Conservancy's
       progress in achieving its objectives, from the beginning of its
       operations in 1985.
     * Tahoe Conservancy Programs
       The Conservancy's primary objectives are:
          + To protect the natural environment of the basin, with priority
            placed on preserving the exceptional clarity and quality of
            the waters of Lake Tahoe.
          + To increase public access and recreation opportunities for
            visitors to the lake.
          + To preserve and enhance the broad diversity of wildlife
            habitat in the Tahoe Basin.
     * Board
       Board Meeting Notices and Agenda
     * Employment
       Flex Your Power The energy challenge facing California is real.
       California continues to experience electrical shortages that
       threaten rolling blackouts throughout the State. To reduce the risk
       of power outages, the most important thing we can do in the short
       term is reduce our demand for electricity and use energy more
       efficiently. Click the icon on the left to see how you can help.

                             Back to Top of Page
                        California Tahoe Conservancy
    2161 Lake Tahoe Blvd., Suite 2 · South Lake Tahoe, CA 96150 · (530)
                      542-5580 · (530) 542-5591 (fax)
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                        Privacy Policy CTC Disclaimer
