http://www.rtc.wa.gov

   Southwest Washington Regional Transportation Council

   [divider.gif]

   Who Is RTC
          Our Mission
          Agency Duties
          Board of Directors
          Transportation Committees
          Contact Info

     To encourage and promote the development of a balanced, efficient and
   affordable regional transportation system to meet the mobility needs of
            people and goods, within and through this region, and minimize
                                     transportation-related air pollution.
                                                         Mission Statement

                                                 I-5 Partnership
                                                     Draft Recommendations
                                                               (307K PDF)

                                     Vancouver HOV: Moving People Forward!
                                                     I-5 HOV Lane Project

   Regional Programs
          Metropolitan Transportation Plan
          Transportation Improvement Program
          Regional Transportation Plans

   Planning Studies
          I-5 HOV Operational Study
          I-205 Corridor Study
          SR-35 Columbia River Bridge Feasibility Study
          Affiliated Studies and Study Archives

   Data Resources
          Regional Traffic Count Data
          Congestion Management Monitoring Project
          Digital Mapping for Southwest Washington

   Final Reports
          I-5 HOV Corridor Operational Study
          Metropolitan Transportation Plan, 2000 Amendment
          Portland/Vancouver I-5 Trade Corridor Study
          Clark County High Occupancy Vehicle Study
          More to come soon!

   What's New?
          New Additions to this Web Site
          Upcoming Meetings
          Press Releases

   Useful Links
          Our collection of local, regional, and national travel and
          transportation links

   [divider.gif]

   Disclaimer
   Neither the Southwest Washington Regional Transportation Council (RTC)
   nor any agency, officer, or employee of the RTC warrants the accuracy,
   reliability, or timeliness of any information in this web site and
   shall not be liable for any losses caused by such reliance on the
   accuracy, reliability, or timeliness of such information. Portions of
   such information may be incorrect or not current. Any person or entity
   who relies on information obtained from this system does so at his or
   her own risk.

     [ieanim.gif] This site has been optimized for best viewing with
     Microsoft's Internet Explorer, version 4 or higher.

   Send mail to webmaster@rtc.wa.gov with questions or comments about this
                                  web site.
     Copyright ©1992-2002, Regional Transportation Council, All Rights
                                  Reserved.
                This page was last updated January 17, 2002.
   [divider.gif]
