http://cbdb.nimh.nih.gov

   CBDB

                 Welcome to the Clinical Brain Disorders Branch

Intramural Research Program, NIMH,NIH

   CBDB is part of the Intramural Research Program of the National
   Institute of Mental Health, NIH. After ten years of residing on the
   pastoral grounds of St. Elizabeths Hospital, CBDB has moved back to the
   main NIH campus in Bethesda, Maryland. While the unique setting of St.
   Elizabeths is irreplaceable, we have occupied beautiful brand new
   laboratories and clinic spaces that were created for us, and we are
   back in the mainstream of NIH life.

   CBDB is a multidisciplinary neuroscience laboratory in which basic and
   clinical scientists work side by side exploring neural mechanisms and
   models of mental and cognitive function and of neuropsychiatric
   illness. Experiments are performed at many levels of inquiry, from
   basic molecular biology of the gene to clinical examinations of
   patients. A major area of investigation of this laboratory is neural
   mechanisms implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and its
   treatment.

   The laboratory is organized very much like a university department,
   with different units or divisions represented by groups of
   investigators, at various levels of training and experience, working on
   related experiments. The Director of the Branch is Daniel R.
   Weinberger, M.D. The various divisions include:

   1) clinical studies, headed by Michael Egan, which conducts inpatient
   and outpatient studies primarily of patients with schizophrenia, and is
   currently focused around a large sibling pair and parent-patient trio
   analysis of genes related to various biological traits (intermediate
   phenotypes) associated with genetic risk for schizophrenia;

   2) A neuropsychology division, headed by Terry Goldberg, which conducts
   clinical and neuroimaging studies of basic cognitive processes
   implicated in the biology of schizophrenia and its treatment;

   3) a neuropathology division headed by Joel Kleinman and Thomas Hyde,
   which conducts a variety of molecular studies of gene and protein
   expression in postmortem tissue of patients with psychiatric and drug
   abuse disorders;

   4) A neuroimaging division, headed by Daniel Weinberger, Karen Berman,
   and Richard Coppola, which uses various neuroimaging techniques, such
   as EEG, PET, SPECT, fMRI, MRSI, and in the near future, MEG, to probe
   relevant physiologic, neurochemical, and neuropharmacological aspects
   of schizophrenia and of siblings at genetic risk for schizophrenia;

   5) an animal modeling division, headed by Barbara Lipska, which
   explores in animals, including rats and genetically engineered mice,
   basic molecular mechanisms related to neurodevelopmental changes
   implicated in the brains of patients with schizophrenia.

   You can explore more detailed information relating to the laboratory
   and the workings of its various divisions in several ways. A
   comprehensive overview of the branch gives the most recent perspective
   on how the various programs fit together. The Program page describes
   the various research projects that comprise the main areas of interest
   broken down mostly along methodological lines. The Staff page points to
   individual information. Publications lists recent papers and points to
   those that are available online. The Image area gives a brief tour of
   our neuroimaging work and access to some online image data.

List of additional pages

     * Overview 2000
     * Annual Report 1996
     * What's new
     * Programs
     * Staff profiles and home pages
     * Publications
     * Images
     * In patient program
     * Sibling Study

   nimhbar.gif

   We welcome your comments
   E-mail them to: Dr. Richard Coppola. Thank you!

   Return to the CBDB Homepage
   Updated Sept 15, 2000
