http://wsg6.ngdc.noaa.gov

                                ESG Build 2.

   The Environmental Scenario Generator project is sponsored by the
   Defense Modeling and Simulation Office, under the direction of the
   Executive Agent for Air and Space Natural Environment. The
   Environmental Scenario Generator is intended to provide an integrated,
   physically consistent environmental data set meeting a Modeling and
   Simulation (M&S) customer's requirements for an authoritative and
   realistic representation of atmospheric, oceanic, and/or space natural
   environment elements for specified regions, time frames, and
   conditions.

   The ESG is being constructed in a series of "builds" each of which
   builds, expands or adds capabilities to the overall ESG system. This
   site contains the first demo release of build 2.

   ESG Build 2 key features:

   Multi-DB searching Ocean DB PIM IONSCINT MEL RSS BugRat Importance NCEP
   99 Prod/Devel Bug Fixes

Multi-DB Searching

   The ESG organizes data sets into databases (DB) where each DB is some
   logical collection of data. It can be data that is related by topic,
   resolution, sample rate , etc.. . Using ESG B2 it is now possible to
   select multiple databases for plotting and searching. This would allow
   ,for example, a user to connect to and search the Ocean database
   simultaneously with a terrestrial weather archive. The advantage of
   separating the databases is that while it is possible to search related
   regions in both it is also possible to search totally disjoint regions
   as well. For example the user could impose conditions on the Persian
   Gulf sea and the weather in Germany. The ESG status bar now contains a
   Database marker (see below). All other tabs function as before but
   relative to this database. So in order to use the system the user must
   for each DB specify a ROI, Time Range, probes and parameters. The
   appropriate tabs are all based on the selected database and so changes
   dynamically with DB selection. In order to change between selected
   databases simply click the arrow. To add or remove new databases visit
   the Database tab and check or uncheck the DB. One thing to be aware of
   is that if the databases have no overlapping data, the search and plot
   functions will have no ability to plot/search simultaneous archive.

   [ocean.jpg]

Ocean Database

   The addition of the Ocean DB is important to the ESG project in several
   ways . Firstly it gives representation to a crucial part of the Earth's
   environment by providing global coverage for the earth's oceans.
   Secondly the database is the first to demonstrate the network access
   capabilities of ESG to a remote database. The Ocean DB is developed by
   and housed at SAIC in Virginia and accessed through the main ESG site
   at NGDC in Boulder. The database functions exactly the same as other
   ESG data sets, with a list of parameters as shown below. One thing to
   note is that because the data is global 1.0 degree the mapplet starts
   zoomed out beyond where individual individual probes can be seen. The
   user can either zoom in to see them or select using the pop-up dialog
   (diagram 3).

[ocean2.jpg]

   (diagram 2 Ocean Parameter List)

[ocean3.jpg]

   (diagram 3 Ocean Probe Selection)

Parameterized Ionospheric Model (PIM)

   The Parameterized Ionospheric Model (PIM) is a fast global ionospheric
   and plasmaspheric model based on the combined output of regional
   theoretical ionospheric models and a plasmaspheric model. . For
   specified geophysical conditions and spatial coordinates, PIM produces
   electron density profiles (EDPs) between 90 and 25000 km altitude,
   corresponding critical frequencies and heights for the ionospheric E
   and F2 regions, and Total Electron Content (TEC).
   The ionospheric portion of PIM is a parameterization of the results of
   several regional theoretical ionospheric models. This allows PIM to be
   computationally fast while retaining the physics of the theoretical
   ionospheric models. The parameterization compresses the output from the
   theoretical ionospheric models while to a large extent it preserves
   important characteristics such as density peaks and scale heights. The
   large base of data used by PIM contains coefficients from the
   parameterization.
   PIM considers the following geophysical parameters:
   · Year
   · Day of the year
   · Universal Time
   · Solar activity indices F10.7 and Sunspot Number (SSN)
   · Magnetic activity index Kp
   · Orientation of the y and z components of the interplanetary magnetic
   field (IMF By and IMF Bz)
   and the following spatial parameters:
   · Coordinate system (geographic or corrected geomagnetic)
   · Latitude and longitude
   · Azimuth and elevation
   · Altitude
   PIM offers a number of ionospheric parameters on output:
   · Ionospheric E-region parameters foE and hmE
   · Ionospheric F2-region parameters foF2 and hmF2
   · TEC
   · EDPs
   on several types of output grid:
   · Rectangular latitude/longitude
   · Latitude/longitude pairs
   · Azimuth/elevation with a ground-based observer (origin)
   In the ESG application the output is always taken on the Rectangular
   latitude/longitude grid.

   [pim.jpg]

   (Figure 4 Sample PIM Output)

IONSCINT

   The High Fidelity Ionospheric Scintillation Simulation Algorithm
   (IONSCINT) is a software program for realistic simulation of
   disruptions in trans-ionospheric radio wave communications due to
   equatorial scintillations. Near the geomagnetic equator,
   ground-to-satellite links frequently encounter signal fading during the
   nighttime due to instabilities in the ionospheric F-region related to
   equatorial spread-F plumes which develop after sunset when conditions
   are favorable. The precise conditions necessary for the development of
   these instabilities are currently not well understood, although
   statistically speaking, communications interference follows a regular
   seasonal and diurnal pattern with a strong dependence on solar cycle.
   Superimposed on these dependencies, however, is a high degree of
   day-to-day variability. It is not uncommon for a particular link at a
   particular location to exhibit a night of completely clear
   communication followed by a night with several hours of intense
   scintillation, effectively prohibitive to communication completely.
   Prior to the development of IONSCINT, the only tools available for the
   prediction of scintillation for simulation purposes were statistical
   (climatological) models, most notably the Wide Band model (WBMOD).
   Although expressing the seasonal, daily and solar cycle variability of
   equatorial scintillations on average, these models did not allow for
   the introduction of day-to-day variability in scintillations, even in
   an average sense. Since equatorial scintillations are in fact extremely
   variable from day-to-day at a given location, simulation results based
   only on the average scintillation levels were necessarily lacking in a
   critical feature of the spread-F phenomenon itself. The IONSCINT
   program was developed to overcome the limitations of climatological
   models for simulations by reproducing both the climatological and the
   day-to-day variability of equatorial scintillations, thereby producing
   a simulation result which is much more in line with actual expected
   conditions for any particular simulation scenario.
   IONSCINT generates simulated scintillation results by "replaying"
   measured scintillation scenarios for a specified season and set of
   geophysical conditions, drawing on nightly data measured over the past
   four years in the South America sector. These nightly measured
   scenarios are used to drive a model for spread-F plume development and
   evolution that was developed as part of the Scintillation Network
   Decision Aid (SCINDA) model, from extensive experience with
   scintillation data. The scenarios are selected pseudo-randomly to
   conform to the correct average seasonal behavior yet preserve the
   day-to-day variability. The South America data set is extrapolated to
   arbitrary positions on the Earth through the use of average climatology
   predictions (WBMOD). The basic result is a simulated prediction of
   scintillation intensity throughout a specified theater for
   communication with a specified satellite at a specified time of day and
   year and under specified geophysical conditions. The result is suitable
   for the production of geographic maps of satellite outages.

   [ionscint.jpg]

   (Figure 5. IONSCINT Model of Communications Outage)

   IONSCINT was prepared by: Radex, Incorporated, Three Preston Court,
   Bedford, Mass. 01730

   Prepared for: AFRL/VSB, 29 Randolph Road, Hanscom AFB, Mass. 01731

MEL

   [mel.jpg]

   The Environmental Scenario Generator MEL site is now open. It provides
   MEL access to 20 years of NCEP/NCAR parameters totaling well over 100
   GB's. The user can sub select for any region of the world and any
   specific parameters of interest. In addition two custom databases
   created for the project are now available on-line. The South West Asia
   and Korea databases provide access to a higher spatial resolution
   database for specific times and regions. This new MEL site provides a
   very solid foundation for the MEL environmental resources.

BugRat

   [bugrat.jpg]

   BugRat is a Java based 100% open source system for accepting and
   tracking bug reports over the Internet. It allows users to fill out a
   form based request to report bugs, request features or make specific
   design requests. The report is then added to the database where a
   administrators interface allows the project manager to review the
   report and then assign an action. In this way bug reports can be
   tracked from first report through to solution. The system was heavily
   modified by the ESG team to include features lke automated e-mail,
   automatic system detection, etc.. This system will have multiple uses
   both in the ESG project and beyond.

Importance

   [importance.jpg]

   One of the most requested features for ESG fuzzy searching has been the
   addition of "importance of parameters". Far from being trivial
   mathematically the addition of this feature required extensive research
   to implement. The ESG team finally decided on a paper by Dubois and
   Prade, "Using fuzzy sets in flexible querying: Why and how? " and thier
   method for importance assignment. This new interface and system gives
   the ESG user the ability to ask for something like "It must be hot, but
   windy would be nice too.". This new capability will transition into the
   weather scenario system very easily providing un-rivaled search
   capability.

NCEP 1999

   The 1999 NCEP/NCAR data was loaded for better correspondence between
   the weather and ocean data.

PROD/DEVEL

   ESG now supports a production server and a development server.
