http://www.cns.gov


   The Corporation for National and Community Service banner.
   President George W. Bush walks out to the field at an Army Navy game in
   Annapolis, MD. Photo by Paul Morse.
   In his State of the Union Address, the President announces USA Freedom
   Corps
   President Calls on all Americans to Serve and Creates USA Freedom Corps
   News Briefing on USA Freedom Corps Today
   AmeriCorps to Assist Utah Charities During Olympics
   USA Freedom Corps - Serve your neighbor. Serve your community. Serve
   your country.
   AmeriCorps Senior Corps Service-Learning
   The Corporation for National and Community Service engages Americans of
   all ages and backgrounds in service to help strengthen communities
   through AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, and Learn and Serve America.
   MLK Day of Service | Contact Us
   Site Map | Freedom of Information | Privacy Policy
   Image of people engaged in service activity.
   Homeland Security
   AmeriCorps and Senior Corps to Support Homeland Security Efforts -
   Every American Can Help
   What's Hot!
   Current events, available funding, new resources...
   Get Involved. Links to joining an AmeriCorps program, joining a Senior
   Corps program, info about Learn and Serve America and How to Start a
   Program.
   About Us. Info about the Corporation, legislation, CEO Les Lenkowsky
   and our Board of Directors, state office and Commission contacts.
   Service News. Press releases, speeches, fact sheets, public service
   announcements, National Service News.
   Resources for Programs. Manuals, handbooks, forms, logos, training
   info.
   Members and Alums Information. Ed Award information, All-AmeriCorps
   Awards.
   Rsearch and Evaluation. Research on all programs and Fellows products.
   Jobs/Fellows/Interns. Employment with the Corporation, Fellowship and
   Internship infomration.
   National Service in your State. Find out what's happening in your
   state. State by state links to projects, highlights from program, and
   contact info.
   Board of Directors Public Meeting Notice
