http://natt.pnl.gov

                               [NATTlogo.gif]

                 Home Feedback Contents Search Related Sites


   What's New
   Conferences
   Focus Areas
   Computational
   Newsletters
   NATT Briefing


   The Northwest Alliance for Transportation Technologies (NATT) is a
   partnership working to address national technological challenges by
   focusing relevant industrial and research capabilities on specific
   transportation goals. This partnership combines the strengths of
   national laboratories, research universities, the Boeing Company,
   lightweight metal power to manufacturers, with abundant, low-cost help
   meet its objectives. The Alliance provides a format for these diverse,
   innovative noncompetitive entities to develop solutions for a variety
   of projects. NATT activities are co-funded by the industrial
   participants and the U.S. Department of Energys Office of Advanced
   Automotive Technologies. The initial mission is to assist the
   Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles (PNGV), a Presidential
   initiative, in achieving its goals.

                                [gr3line.gif]

Our Mission

PNGV PARTNERSHIP

   In 1993, the U.S. government teamed with the three major domestic
   automakers (Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors) in a partnership to
   develop technologies necessary to create the motor vehicle of the
   future. The partnership aims to strengthen U.S. competitiveness by
   producing a mid-sized vehicle with performance and price similar to
   today's cars, but with triple the fuel efficiency, greatly reduced
   emissions, and 80 percent recyclability. A key to achieving PNGV goals
   is to reduce the weight of the vehicle by 50 percent. Weight reduction
   will be achieved primarily by using lightweight materials to replace
   current steel components. A lighter vehicle will also enable use of
   more efficient propulsion systems.

   PNGV faces several obstacles, including a lack of low-cost lightweight
   materials, and effective manufacturing and joining technologies for
   these materials. Once these obstacles are overcome, PNGV will be better
   positioned to deliver significant environmental, energy, and economic
   benefits to the United States. Fuel-efficient vehicles will lessen our
   reliance on foreign oil suppliesespecially as our population continues
   to grow and more people use motor vehicle transportation. Further, the
   U.S. automobile manufacturing industry is integral to the nation's
   economy, accounting for one in seven U.S. jobs. Technological
   improvements of this kind will help position U.S. industry for world
   leadership.

WHAT IS NATT?

   NATT is a Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) initiative
   comprised of multiple regional industrial sectors brought together to
   improve U.S. industrial technologies. Partners will focus on the
   research and formulation of advanced cost-effective, lightweight
   materials; advanced manufacturing processes; and prototype or
   pilot-scale development.

   The proposed NATT partnership will include the Boeing Company;
   Northwest lightweight aluminum, magnesium, and titanium producers;
   other automotive and aerospace suppliers; regional electric suppliers
   such as the Bonneville Power Administration; state universities; the
   Big Three auto manufacturers; and national laboratories.

WHY NATT?

   The U.S. DOE Office of Transportation Technologies has recognized a
   unique opportunity to ally these Pacific Northwest components to
   address serious technological challenges. Using cost-shared government
   funds, these noncompetitive entities can more efficiently work together
   toward a goal that benefits everyone.

OBJECTIVES

   NATT's principal focus is the development of technologies necessary to
   achieve the 50 percent weight reduction required to meet PNGV's
   objectives. NATT partners will use their resources to design new
   lightweight metals shaping and connecting techniques, and to lower
   material costs.

   NATT will also work with the domestic transportation industry
   (aerospace, vehicular, suppliers, etc.) to develop technical tools
   required to enhance U.S. competitiveness and benefit a broad range of
   noncompetitive industrial sectors. NATT will be a strategic U.S. asset,
   addressing the multi-disciplinary research and development that
   traditionally falls between fundamental university research and
   near-term, profit-oriented industrial research. Results of this work
   will ensure that the U.S. is a strong player in the world market.

UNIQUE POSITIONING

   The Pacific Northwest is well positioned through NATT to contribute to
   the national vehicle program (PNGV).

   The region's attributes include:

 [bull1.gif] 40 percent of domestic aluminum productionfuture cars will
             contain 50 percent more aluminum than today's cars
 [bull1.gif] Boeingthe largest manufacturer of lightweight structures
 [bull1.gif] PNNLa broad based national laboratory having significant
             experience with the auto industry, lightweight metals industry, and
             Boeing
 [bull1.gif] Large, low-cost power providers
 [bull1.gif] State universities

   [bull1.gif] Magnesium and titanium production plants

SUMMARY

   The Northwest Alliance for Transportation Technologies brings together
   Pacific Northwest entities to meet the considerable challenges facing
   PNGV. The success of NATTs work will be important to the future of our
   national economy, our environment, and the Pacific Northwest region.

Powerpoint Presentation

   To view a Powerpoint presentation that will provide an overview of the
   NATT initiative, click here.  (This may take a few minutes)

                                [gr3line.gif]

Company Profile

   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory's core mission is to deliver
   environmental science and technology in the service of the nation and
   humanity. Through basic research we create fundamental knowledge of
   natural, engineered, and social systems thatis the basis for both
   effective environmental technology and sound public policy. We solve
   legacy environmental problems by delivering technologies that remediate
   existing environmental hazards, addressing today's environmental needs
   with technologies that prevent pollution and minimize waste, and are
   laying the technical foundation for tomorrow's inherently clean energy
   and industrial processes. We also apply our capabilities to meet
   selected national security, energy, and human health needs, to
   strengthen the U.S. economy, and to support the education of future
   scientists and engineers.
   Battelle operates Pacific Northwest for the Department of Energy (DOE)
   and it is committed to the principles of total quality to sustain
   excellence in research and development and the conduct of all
   Laboratory operations, such as compliance with all applicable
   environmental, safety, and health requirements.
   Pacific Northwest acts as a steward of DOE's resources by anticipating
   future national needs and investing in the development of major new
   capabilities and programs to meet these needs. Current investments
   include molecular science research, advanced processing technology,
   biotechnology, global environmental change research and energy
   technology development.  For more information about PNNL, visit our web
   site:

                                [gr3line.gif]

  Contact Information

          Telephone
          (509) 375-3762
          FAX
          (509) 375-2167
          Postal address
          PO Box 999, MSIN K2-50
          Electronic mail
          General Information: natt@pnl.gov
          Webmaster: wendy.stidmon@pnl.gov


          [gr3line.gif]
