http://fusionenergy.lanl.gov

   Los Alamos Office of Fusion Energy Sciences       LA-UR-99-4516

   Mission:  Develop practical fusion energy as a solution to the
   long-term energy problems facing society.

   Los Alamos collaborates in the world fusion program, which focuses on
   conventional magnetic confinement (tokamak) and inertial confinement
   (laser) approaches to fusion.  We strongly support the recent shift of
   emphasis in fusion research towards more cost-effective fusion
   concepts.  Currently,  Los Alamos has two active and growing innovative
   confinement projects:  the Penning Fusion Experiment and Magnetized
   Target Fusion.

    AFRL Engineer looking down quartz chamber of MTF FRC plasma injector

   [aricebu1.gif]

   The 2nd International Conference on Magnetized Target Fusion was held
   at the University of Nevada, Reno, Aug. 7-9, 2001. Approximately 60
   scientists and engineers attended, including overseas from Russia and
   New Zealand.
   [aricebu1.gif]

    Press release on MTF from American Physical Society, Quebec City
   meeting of Division of Plasma Physics, Nov. 2000.

          - Magnetic Fusion Experiments (Group P-24)

            - Penning Trap Experiments (Group P-23)

           - Fusion Theory (Group T-15)

             - High-Density Plasma Simulations (Group X-PA)

           - Beryllium Plasma Spray (Group MST-6)

             - Tritium Systems Test Assembly ( ESA-TSE)

               Links to Other Fusion Programs

                 Hit Counter th visitor since Oct. 10, 1999

                               [aricerul.gif]

   Fusion Energy Research is managed by Los Alamos Science and Technology
                                  Programs

              Los Alamos Office of Fusion Energy Sciences Team

                               [aricerul.gif]

         L O S   A L A M O S   N A T I O N A L   L A B O R A T O R Y
      Operated by the University of California for the US Department of
                                   Energy
   wurden@lanl.gov | Copyright © 1999-2001 UC | Disclaimer/PrivacyPolicy
