http://www.greenteam.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
   Tree




                            Green Team Home
                            About the Green Team
                            Green Team News
                            Siting Assistance
                            Calendar
                            Resources
                            Contact Us




   Green Team Logo The Governor's
                   Clean Energy Green Team



        __________ search
   ( )  My CA   (*)   This Site




   In response to the uncertain electricity supply in California, Governor
   Gray Davis signed the California Energy Security and Reliability Act of
   2000 (AB 970), creating the Governor's Clean Energy Green Team. The
   Green Team has been charged with the following mandates:
     * Devise strategies for bring additional fossil fuels and renewable
       power sources online in California without compromising the laws
       governing the environment, public health and safety, and public
       participation.
     * Develop innovative ways to cut red tape while protecting public
       health and safety.
     * Explore new ideas to finance renewable energy supplies.

   The Green Team members drew from their diverse pool of professional
   experience to create an effective program that satisfies the statutory
   requirements set forth by AB 970. The statutory requirements include:
     * Providing guidance documents for power plant construction that
       outline the environmental effects and that describe the best
       available, state-of-the-art control technologies for mitigation.
     * Offering assistance in procuring essential inputs, including
       natural gas supply, water supply, and emission offsets.
     * Working with local governments to expedite the approval process for
       obtaining permits and land use authorizations, while respecting
       requirements for public participation and adhering to legal
       standards for environmental protection.
     * Recommending financing programs for renewable energy projects.

                             Back to Top of Page
       © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
