http://proteome.bnl.gov

                         Structural Genomics at BNL

         Structural genomics is the systematic determination of
   3-dimensional structures of proteins representative of the range of
   protein structure and function found in nature. The aim, ultimately, is
   to build a body of structural information that will facilitate
   prediction of a reasonable structure and potential function for almost
   any protein from knowledge of its coding sequence. Such information
   will be essential for understanding the functioning of the human
   proteome, the ensemble of tens of thousands of proteins specified by
   the human genome.
         BNL is a member of the New York Structural Genomics Research
   Consortium (NYSGRC), which is supported by the Protein Structure
   Initiative of the National Institute of General Medical Sciences
   (NIGMS) to be a Pilot Structural Genomics Center. Procedures are being
   developed for high-throughput x-ray crystallography of proteins
   expressed from cloned genomic or cDNA. Initial targets include a
   variety of yeast proteins, proteins associated with human disease, and
   proteins of human pathogens. Protein targets and progress toward
   structure determination will be posted on the NYSGRC web site.
        BNL is independently taking a structural genomics approach to gain
   structural information about human proteins that are involved in
   sensing and repairing DNA damage. This work is supported by the Office
   of Biological and Environmental Research of the Department of Energy.
   Protein targets and progress toward structure determination will be
   posted on this site in the following tables:

   Proteins Selected for Expression and Structure Determination

   Progress Toward Structure Solution by X-ray Crystallography

               Participants in BNL Structural Genomics Efforts

  Cloning, Expression and Purification

   F. William Studier
        Sue Ellen Gerchman
        Helen Kycia
        Eileen Matz
        Nancy Manning


  Informatics and Databases

   Dawei Lin
        Sharadha Sambasivan
        John McCarthy


  Structure Determination by X-ray Crystallography

   S. Swaminathan
        S. Eswaramoorthy
        D. Kumaran
   John Flanagan
   Maria Bewley
   Jiansheng Jiang
   Adrian Goldman(sabbatical visitor)


  Structures of Membrane Proteins

   Dax Fu


  NSLS Crystallography Stations

   Robert Sweet
   Dieter Schneider
   Anand Saxena
   Michael Becker
   Howard Robinson
