http://nvo.gsfc.nasa.gov



   [space.gif]
   [space.gif]

              SSDS General Resource Vocabulary Draft Definition

                          Version 0.1 (28 Apr 1999)
                          by Ray Plante & Ed Shaya

   Contents:
     * Purpose
     * Vocabulary Organization and Its Application to a Resource
     * Vocabulary Definition
          + Part A: Queryable Fields
          + Part B: Non-Queryable Fields
     * Conformity Requirements
     * Relationship to Other Vocabularies

Purpose

   The purpose of the General Resource Vocabulary is to describe an
   information service in terms of the data it can deliver. This
   description is given in terms of concepts that are meaningful across
   the entire discipline of space science.

   The intended use of this vocabulary by an interoperable system is
   primarily as a way to determine whether a specific query should be sent
   to the resource being described. The secondary use is to record
   information that is useful to the end-user for obtaining more
   information about the resource directly.

   It is envisioned that data providers could provide descriptions of
   their services using this vocabulary. This might be done for each
   service by filling in values into a form.

   Comment:
          Explicitly excluded from this vocabulary is information
          regarding how the resource can be queried as this is considered
          an implementation-specific detail.

Vocabulary Organization and Its Application to a Resource

   The vocabulary definition is organized as a list of fields, or
   concepts, which have associated values that describe attributes of the
   resource. Along with each field is a definition of the concept and,
   where applicable, the restrictions on the values it can have.
   Restrictions can take the form of controlled vocabulary.

   Question:
          How "controlled" should controlled vocabulary be? In some cases,
          strictly controlled vocabulary--where values can only be drawn
          from a given list--is adequate. A looser alternative might
          permit the value to be drawn from a predetermined list, but if
          the list does not include an appropriate term, a
          resource-supplied value may be used; see Data Package for a
          possible example.

   The vocabulary definition is divided into two categories. The first
   list addresses the primary use of the vocabulary, determining whether a
   query should be sent to the resource. For each field, it is expected
   that the data provider will provide two pieces of information when
   describing a resource:
     * whether the field is queryable. The field is considered queryable
       if the resource, upon receiving a query containing a reference to
       the field and a match-string, can return records based on some
       comparison with the match-string and the resource held data for the
       specified field.
     * the restrictions on field values that apply to all the deliverable
       data from the resource as a whole. That is, the resourse lists the
       constraints on the field value necessary to return at least one
       record matching a query that uses the field.

   In general, these two pieces of information can be used independently.
   The latter piece can be used by a query gateway to determine whether
   none of the data records from a resource matches a given query; if so,
   the query gateway can choose not to forward the query to that resource.
   The former piece indicates whether the service will properly use the
   part of the query referring to that field. It is possible that the
   field is queryable but has no restrictions in value. It is also
   possible that a field is not queryable but is still restricted in
   applicable values.

   Example:
          An archive may not support searches by time; nevertheless, the
          service may inform that the data have all been acquired after
          1994.

   The format for expressing field value constraints is to be determined.
   In general, multiple constraints can be given. In the case of string
   values, all strings that apply to the resource can be listed.

   Example:
          A single resource that serves data from several HST
          instruments--e.g. NICMOS, STIS, WFPC2--might list each one as a
          value for the instrument field.

   For some of the fields, the constraint will typically only contain a
   single value. A null-valued constraint indicates that no constraints
   should be associated with the field. In other words, records should be
   returned with information on this field no matter what values are
   present. The query should be constrained by at least one field.

   The second list of fields specifically address the secondary use of
   this resource vocabulary, recording other information that might be
   useful to the end-user. These fields should be considered
   non-searchable attributes of the resource.

   Note that while this vocabulary may define how values and constraints
   may be represented as text, it does not define how the field itself is
   represented as this is considered implementation-dependent. Field names
   are merely conceptual handles for the given definitions.
   Implementations of this vocabulary should define how each field maps to
   its representation.

Vocabulary Definition

   Field Index:
     * Part A: Queryable Fields
          + Facility
          + Facility Type
          + Instrument Host
          + Instrument
          + Instrument Type
          + Observable
          + Sampling Mode
          + Data Class
          + Data Package
          + Time
          + Principal Investigator
     * Part B: Non-Queryable Fields
          + Resource Name
          + Data Service Site
          + Curator
          + Resource URL
          + Sub-vocabularies

  Part A: Queryable Fields

   Facility
          Definition: The name of the organization responsible creating
          the data. This can be observatory name, mission name, or general
          project name.

   Facility Type
          Definition: The type of organization responsible for creating
          the data.
          Controlled Values:

                observatory
                mission
                program
                laboratory
                other

          Notes:

          + This term is new since the 22 Apr 1998 Team Meeting.
          + Meanings of vocabulary terms to be defined.

   Instrument Host
          Definition: the name of the platform that hosts the measuring
          instrument. Time may be the name of a telescope or spacescraft.

   Instrument
          Definition: the name of the specific measuring instrument that
          produced the deliverable data.

   Comment:
          One or more of Facility, Instrument Host, and Instrument may
          have the same value. For example, an archive of VLA data may
          have both Instrument Host and Instrument equal to VLA.

   Instrument Type
          Definition: the class of measuring instrument.
          Controlled Values:

                frequency spectrometer
                composition spectrometer
                photometer
                polarizer
                imager
                radar
                position measurer
                particle analyzer
                field detector
                riometer
                sounder

   Observable
          Definition: the field or particle that the measuring
          instrument's detector is sensitive to.
          Controlled Values:

                photon
                electron
                proton
                ion
                atom
                molecule
                magnetic field
                electric field
                pressure
                temperature

   Sampling Mode
          Definition: the observational data sampling scheme used to
          create a basic set of measurements.
          Controlled Values:

                time series -- a sampling scheme that produces a set of
                measurements which vary primarily as a function of time.
                image -- a sampling scheme that produces a set of
                measurements which vary regularly along two dimensions.
                aperture -- a sampling scheme that produces single-valued
                measurements
                spectrum -- a sampling scheme that produces a set of
                measurements which vary primarily as a function of
                frequency.
                visibility -- a sampling scheme that produces a
                measurement of the amplitude and phase of a Fourier
                component of the spatial distribution of some quantity.
                scan -- a sampling scheme that produces a set of
                measurements which vary regularly along one dimension.

          Comments:

          + Would it be worthwhile to add in situ as a one of the allowed
            values?

   Data Class
          Definition: the general type of the deliverable data object or
          the types included within the deliverable data object.
          Controlled Values:

                pointed observation -- an observation of a specific target
                or set of targets.
                survey observation -- an observation that is part of
                program of observations that cover some region regardless
                what targets appear in it.
                derived -- a data object whose elements have been derived
                from observations or simulations.
                simulation -- a data object containing calculations
                derived from a set of boundry conditions. This is meant to
                specifically address computer simulations.
                model fit -- a data object representing a model whose
                parameters have been fit to data
                literature -- a text-based document

          Comments:

          + Earlier suggestions not included were ephemeris and software;
            should they be?

   Data Package
          Definition: an identifying name indicating the format used to
          encode the data object or objects.
          Recognized Values: FITS, CDF, HDF, XDF, ASCII, custom
          Comments:

          + This field may be a good example of where loosely controlled
            vocabulary would be useful. See question on controlled
            vocabulary in previous section.
          + Recognized values should be defined.

   Time
          Definition: The time or time range associated with the
          deliverable data object. Whenever appropriate, the value should
          refer to the time that the data was created or acquired.
          Comments:

          + format for values to be defined.
          + Recall that when resources describe themselves using this
            vocabulary, they should apply this field to all of the data
            served by the resource as a whole. That is, they should
            specify the range (or ranges) of time associated with all the
            data deliverable by the resource.

   Principal Investigator
          Definition: The name of the first author or primary person
          responsible for the creation of the data object.
          Comments:

          + format to be defined
          + the definition needs to clarify whether it applies to an
            "instrument PI", a "guest-observer PI", or "science PI" when
            more than one applies to a data object.

   Comment:
          Several fields proposed in the 22 Apr 1998 Team Meeting--namely,
          Object Name, Object Type, and Bandpass/Energy Range--were
          dropped for this version of the vocabulary because they seemed
          too discipline-specific for this vocabulary level. It was
          thought, however, that this should not prevent someone from
          submitting general queries that include these concepts. See the
          section on other vocabularies below for a discussion of this
          issue.

  Part B: Non-Queryable Fields

   Resource Name
          Definition: the name of the specific data resource being
          described with this vocabulary.
          Comments: see also Data Service Site.

   Data Service Site
          Definition: the name of the data center providing data.

   Curator
          Definition: the person responsible for the resource

   Resource URL
          Definition: The URL for accessing the home page associated with
          the resource or the data center serving the resource. This URL
          is intended for end-users; it should not be a URL that accepts
          queries, and it usually will not be the URL of an HTML query
          form.

   Sub-vocabularies
          Definition: the identifiers for sub-vocabularies supported by
          this resource. Supporting a sub-vocabulary indicates that the
          resource can understand queries that include terms which conform
          to the sub-vocabulary.
          Comments: See the section on other vocabularies below.

Conformity Requirements

   To be defined.

Relationship to Other Vocabularies

   It is expected that other vocabularies will be defined for data
   providers to augment their descriptions of resources. These
   vocabularies can add either discipline-specific information or
   complement information which is not discipline-specific (such as
   bibliographic vocabularies). These other vocabularies could be employed
   in largely the same way that this one is in describing a resource: for
   each field, the provider indicates whether it is queryable and what the
   applicable restrictions are on its value. This information could be
   stored along with the descriptive information associated with this
   General Vocabulary.

   This General Resource Vocabulary is often referred to as a "top-level"
   vocabulary. This means that it describes concepts that are common to
   all resources within the space science community. Concepts that are
   only applicable to certain sub-disciplines should be relegated to
   sub-vocabularies. Similar concepts that are expressed in significantly
   different ways by different disciplines (e.g. "bandpass" vs. "energy
   level", position as [longitude, latitude] vs. [x,y,z] vs. name
   location) should likewise be segregated into different
   sub-vocabularies. This policy for vocabulary definition should not only
   lead to smaller vocabularies, but should also reduce the burden on the
   data provider of having to force fit a largely inapplicable concept.

   The heirarchical relationship of vocabulary need not be reflected in
   the search interfaces presented to users. For example, there should be
   nothing preventing a search gateway such as ISAIA from presenting a
   "first page" that allows the user to ask, "Where can I find X-ray
   images of Jupiter?" (Of course, this query would usually come to the
   gateway in some parameterized form.) This query can be handled in two
   ways. First, by examining the query, the gateway can see that the query
   includes one criterion from the General vocabulary--sampling mode being
   images--and two from another sub-vocabulary--the X-ray frequency band
   and the object Jupiter. Thus, it can determine that the query should
   only go to services that support the sub-vocabulary, and it should not
   send it to services that do not have image data.

   The second way to handle this "first page" query addresses the case
   where two sub-vocabulary define slightly different concepts. For
   example, an astronomical vocabulary might define a waveband field while
   a space physics vocabulary defines energy band. If the gateway (or more
   precisely, the user) wants to send the query to both astronomical and
   space physics sites, then the gateway should employ a query conversion
   service that can translate the cross-over terms from one vocabulary to
   another. In the case of our example, the "X-ray" waveband could be
   converted to a range in energy before sending the query to a space
   physics site.
     __________________________________________________________________


    rplante@ncsa.uiuc.edu


    edward.j.shaya.1@gsfc.nasa.gov

   Last modified: March 12 2001
