http://teas.uspto.gov

             Trademark Electronic Application System
                                                     File Online

   TEAS LOGO

   The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) is pleased to
   present TEAS - the Trademark Electronic Application System. TEAS allows
   you to fill out a form and check it for completeness over the internet.
   Using e-TEAS you can then submit the form directly to the USPTO over
   the internet, making an official filing on-line. Or using PrinTEAS you
   can print out the completed form for mailing to the USPTO. It's your
   choice!


      Important Notice:
        * After November 13, e-TEAS payment options and procedures have
          changed. Please click here for more payment information.


                                   e-TEAS

   The following special requirements may apply (depending on which form
   is selected) for filing directly over the internet:
     * To file an initial application for a stylized or design mark, you
       must be able to attach either a black-and-white GIF or JPG image
       file (the only two formats currently accepted).
     * Where a specimen (sample) of actual use in commerce is required,
       you must be able to attach a scanned image or digital photograph in
       the GIF or JPG format.
     * You must pay by credit card (Mastercard, Visa, American Express or
       Discover) OR through an existing USPTO deposit account.

                                  PrinTEAS

   If you cannot file electronically, you may still be able to complete
   the desired form on-line, to print out and mail. But,
     * You must pay by check or money order OR through an existing USPTO
       deposit account (we currently cannot accept credit card payments
       using PrinTEAS).

   bullet TEAS gives step-by-step instructions for completing a form
   properly. It also provides access to a wide variety of information
   about USPTO procedures and practice. While the different sections of
   the forms may appear straightforward and easy to fill out, you are
   strongly advised to read the HELP instructions very carefully for EACH
   section PRIOR to actually completing it. Failure to follow this advice
   may cause you to fill out sections of the form incorrectly,
   jeopardizing your legal rights.
   bullet e-TEAS works only if you use either NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR (Version
   3.0 or most recent) or MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER (Version 4.0 or most
   recent). e-TEAS utilizes frames, JavaScript, and the file upload
   feature supported by these browser versions. Note: Internet Explorer on
   the Macintosh platform will NOT permit a proper image attachment. You
   must use Internet Explorer version 5 or Netscape in order to use the
   payment server with the Macintosh platform. Also, Internet Explorer
   that sits behind a Microsoft Proxy Server will NOT connect properly.
   However, if you upgrade Internet Explorer to 5.01 or higher the site
   will work properly.
   bullet PrinTEAS, on the other hand, works best if you use either
   NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR (Version 3.0 or most recent) or MICROSOFT INTERNET
   EXPLORER (Version 4.0 or most recent).
   bullet For general trademark information, please telephone the
   Trademark Assistance Center, at 703-308-9000. For automated status
   information on an application that has an assigned serial number,
   please telephone 703-305-8747 or check our Trademark status server.
   bullet If you need help in resolving glitches or need answers to
   technical questions, you can e-mail us at PrinTEAS@uspto.gov. Please
   include your telephone number, so we can talk to you directly, if
   necessary.
   bullet PrinTEAS is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. e-TEAS,
   however, will NOT permit credit card payments from 12 a.m. to 4 a.m.
   Sun. EST. Applications will not transmit during that period.
   bullet Before filing a new application, you may wish to perform a
   search to see if there is a federal registration or pending application
   for a similar mark used on related goods and/or services. Please see
   Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS)
   R notice Important Notice:
   Once you submit an initial application, either electronically or
   through the mail, we will not cancel the filing or refund your fee,
   unless the application fails to satisfy minimum filing requirements.
   The fee is a processing fee, which we do not refund even if we cannot
   issue a registration after our substantive review.

                                   e-TEAS
                    Please click here to access all forms

                                  PrinTEAS
                    Please click here to access all forms

                  TM FAQ
                Frequently
              Asked Questions
             About Trademarks

                                  USPTO Home
                                  TEAS policy
                                      and
                                technical hints

                                                      Help Desk
                                                      Help Desk
                                                    & Bug Report

                 Blank Forms
                Downloadable
                    Blank
             Initial Application
                    Forms

                                   Trademark Page
                                USPTO Trademark Home
                                   Trademark Home

                                                    USPTO Home
                                                    USPTO Home
