http://www.itdb.bts.gov

   [BTS Logo] [blankbutton.gif] [blankbutton.gif] Go to the ITDB News page
   Go to the About ITDB page Get help with this site [ITDB Logo] link to
   home page

   Get Datasets
   Use Tools
   Welcome to the Intermodal Transportation Database.
   .. What is the ITDB?

   The Intermodal Transportation Database (ITDB) is a central access point
   to a broad collection of transportation data. These data have been
   collected by various agencies within the U.S. Department of
   Transportation, and other federal agencies, such as the U.S. Bureau of
   the Census.

   The ITDB is being released in stages. Currently available features
   include a download center and an annotated list of links to many
   transportation-related sites on the Internet. In mid-May, a mapping
   center will be added which will include several Geographic Information
   System (GIS) applications. In the coming months, datasets will be moved
   into the download center from the link list and new functionalities
   will be added. These will be announced on the ITDB Welcome page, as
   well as on the BTS home page (www.bts.gov).

   We value your comments and suggestions. Please feel free to provide us
   with your thoughts. Thank you.

   This is a Beta Test Site. A complete quality assurance program has not
    been conducted on the contents of this site at this time, but will be
                           prior to final release.

   Dataset Download
   Currently, the ITDB offers the ability to Download Datasets, which
   contain the raw data of the ITDB.

   Transportation Data Links
   The Transportation Data Links provide the transportation community with
   a one-stop gateway to relevant transportation data and information.
   [overpass.gif]

   Go to the Mapping Center.
   The Mapping Center provides applications, which may be used to
   visualize, geographically analyze, and generate screen and printable
   maps of the data in the ITDB.
   ITDB Logo - Intermodal Transportation Data Base

   Send Comments and Questions to answers@bts.gov  |   Privacy Statement
