http://www-saam.nci.nih.gov

                          Goto WinSAAM Distribution

                The WinSAAM Compartmental Modelling System Group

   The WinSAAM Modelling System Group is in the Laboratory of Experimental
   and Computational Biology, NCI/FCRDC, Frederick, MD.

Staff

          Peter C. Greif M.D. is involved with the development of
          supporting software for Compartmental Modelling: WinSAAM, SAAM
          and CONSAM.

The WinSAAM Program

   WinSAAM is a Windows based program developed for the analysis of data
   in terms of models. It permits simulation and data fitting, and
   facilitates various techniques encountered in the art of model building
   for system understanding.

   WinSAAM is designed as a tool for the study and testing of mathematical
   models expressed in the context of a group of pools or compartments
   connected by flows. Any set of mathematical equations (differential,
   integral, or algebraic) or functions may serve as an adjunct to the
   compartmental model.

   Although developed primarily for biological systems and more
   specifically for kinetic and dynamic models specified as compartmental
   models, the program is of general utility. It differs from other
   simulation and data fitting programs in that its "language" is geared
   to the biomedical system investigator, and its elements and
   computational procedures are counterparts of the conceptualizations and
   experimental methodologies employed by the laboratory investigator.

   WinSAAM has evolved from the SAAM and CONSAM programs which have been
   in use for many years in the biomedical modelling community. These
   programs have been applied to modelling the lipoprotein system, Zn, Se
   and I metabolism, drug metabolism, amongst others.

   These program are made freely available to the scientific community:
     * WinSAAM forWindows 95/98/NT 4.0 based computers
     * CONSAM for DOS/Windows 3.1 based computers.

   Please mail questions or comments to:


    Peter_Greif@nih.gov
