http://www.pamd.uscourts.gov

   Judicial Officers - bio's, chambers information, and preferences
   Courthouse Locations - maps, directions, parking information, and
   weather
   Clerk's Office - management and staff directory
   Info & Forms - general, attorney, courtroom technology, prisoner and
   pro se
   Juror Information - brochure, pamphlet, and courthouse information
   Local Rules
   Web-based Public Access to Court Electronic Records
   Web-based Public Access to Court Racer Documents
   Judicial Opinions
   Frequently Asked Questions
   What's Hot? - employment opportunities and selected standing orders
   Court Links - judiciary, federal government, and other links
   MDPA Home Page
   Email the Middle District of PA

   [150spacer.gif]


   [150spacer.gif] [header.gif]

                                                             [words6.gif]

                                                              Meet RACER
                                                                guide.

                                  [scranton3.jpg]
                                   [caption.gif]

                       View more pictures of the Courthouse.

                Access the Middle District's Bankruptcy Court site

            Access other Bankruptcy Court information (Unofficial Site)

                           You may also Search this site

                                  [divider2.jpg]

      Warning! You are entering an Official U.S. Government System.
      Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
      this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
      Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
      Infrastructure Protection Act.

      DISCLAIMER: While the information presented on this web site is deemed
      accurate as of the date of publication, it should not be cited or
      relied upon as legal authority. Official copies of Middle District of
      Pennsylvania documents may be obtained from the Clerk of Court. Links
      to other sites are provided for the user's convenience and shall not be
      deemed as an official endorsement by the court. These sites may contain
      information created and maintained by other public and private
      organizations or commercial entities. The court does not control or
      guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of this
      outside information. Further, information contained in other sites
      should not be relied upon as the official opinion of the United States
      District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.

                                  [divider2.jpg]

            This site has been accessed Hit Counter times since 11/1/99

      This site is best viewed at 800 x 600 resolution with Netscape
      Navigator or Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0 or later. You can download
      the latest version of Netscape Navigator here, and the latest version
      of Microsoft Internet Explorer here.

                    This page was last updated on May 14, 2001

       United States District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania, Thomas
                             I. Vanaskie, Chief Judge,
       Mary E. D'Andrea, Clerk of Court, William J. Nealon Federal Building
                         and U.S. Courthouse, Scranton, PA
