http://www.jobsteam.cahwnet.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                           HomePage
                           Welfare-to-Work Report
                           Related Links
                           Principles



   Governor's Welfare-to-Work Job Action Team



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Welfare-to-Work Job Action Team

   The "Job Action Team", convened by Governor Wilson on April 4, 1997, is
   charged with identifying ways to effectively and efficiently move
   Californians from welfare to work. The "Job Action Team " is comprised
   of high-level business leaders from a broad cross-section of California
   businesses, in addition to educators, service providers and ex-officio
   members from executive branch agencies and the Department of Education.
   Governor Wilson recognizes that the involvement of the business
   community is critical to the success of welfare reform in California.
     * On January 9, 1997, Governor Wilson issued Executive Order W-139-97
       which directed the California Trade and Commerce Agency to develop
       strategies to engage the business community in partnerships with
       state and local efforts for job placement opportunities and
       training for welfare recipients.
     * Acting on recommendations from a report prepared by California
       Trade and Commerce Agency Secretary Julie Wright, the Governor
       announced the creation of a "Job Action Team." Action items put
       forth by the team are expected by May of this year.

   Governor Wilson has requested that the "Job Action Team " look at three
   major areas:
     * California's overall attractiveness for economic growth and
       job-creating new investment and how to create more employment
       opportunities for welfare recipients.
     * Identify ways in which workforce preparation can be improved to
       meet employer's needs to produce workers who not only are ready to
       work but are capable of staying on the job.
     * Job-matching, or those activities that will most effectively link
       welfare recipients to effort is meant to identify strategies to
       establish relationships between employers who have existing
       entry-level jobs and welfare recipients who currently possess the
       minimum skills to perform entry-level or, where appropriate, more
       highly skilled jobs.

                            E-Mail us at jobteam
                         Last Updated April 17, 2001
                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
