http://land.gsfc.nasa.gov

               Welcome to Paul R. Houser's World WideWeb Site

                                 [paul5.gif]

   [marble.gif]
   Paul R. Houser
   Data Assimilation Office / Hydrological Sciences Branch
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   Goddard Space Flight Center; Code 974
   Greenbelt, Maryland 20771
   Office: 301-614-5772
   FAX: 301-614-5808
   Home: 410-872-0549
   Email: paul.houser@gsfc.nasa.gov
   HTML: http://dao.gsfc.nasa.gov/DAO_people/houser/l1/home.html
   [mailform.gif] Email Paul
   [rarrow2.gif] Go to Paul's Homepage
   [marble.gif]

So, who IS Paul Houser?

   Dr. Paul R. Houser. Dr. Houser's research interests include regional
   land surface-atmospheric hydrologic modeling, remote sensing, surface
   flux observation, the application of data assimilation in hydrology,
   and near-surface soil moisture investigation. Dr. Houser received his
   B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Hydrology and Water Resources from the
   University of Arizona in 1992 and 1996 respectively. His dissertation
   research, titled "Remote Sensing Soil Moisture using Four-Dimensional
   Data Assimilation" introduced data assimilation into hydrological
   models, and demonstrated the benefit of including information from soil
   moisture observations in land-surface energy and water balance
   simulations. Dr. Houser's previous experience includes exploration of
   surface water quality issues at the U.S. Geological Survey, development
   of landfill cover technology at Los Alamos National Laboratory, study
   of fracture flow in volcanic tuff near Globe Arizona,
   hydrometerological instrumentation design and measurment of surface
   water and energy fluxes throughout Arizona, and teaching general
   hydrology, hydrologic field camp, and graduate hydrometerology seminar
   classes. Dr. Houser joined the Goddard Hydrological Sciences Branch and
   the Data Assimilation Office in 1997. His current research focus is:
   (1) land-surface data assimilation in the GSFC-GEOS model which
   includes global land-surface water and energy simulation, global remote
   sensing, and advanced data assimilation methodologies; (2) Regional
   land-surface data-assimilation and observational studies in the GCIP
   region.

   [marble.gif]

Recent Publications, Presentations, and Working Documents

   Houser, P. R., W. J. Shuttleworth, H. V. Gupta, J. S. Famiglietti, K.
   H. Syed, and D. C. Goodrich, 1998: Integration of Soil Moisture Remote
   Sensing and Hydrologic Modeling using Data Assimilation. Water
   Resources Research, 34(12):3405-3420. PDF
   Houser, P., R. Yang, J. Joiner, A. da Silva, and S. Cohn, 1997: Land
   Surface GEOS Modeling and Assimilation Strategy, Data Assimilation
   Office Note, Goddard Space Flight Center
   White, C. B., P. R. Houser, A. M. Arain, Z. L. Yang, K. Syed, and W. J.
   Shuttleworth, 1997: The aggregate description of semi-arid vegetation
   with precipitation-generated soil moisture heterogeneity. Accepted for
   publicatioon in Hydrology and Earth System Sciences
   Houser, Paul R., William J. Shuttleworth, James S. Famiglietti, and
   Judith A. Burglund, Integration of Remote Sensing and Hydrologic
   Modeling Using Data Assimilation. American Meteorological Society
   Proceedings of the 13th Conference on Hydrology, February 2-7, 1997.
   Houser, Paul R., William J. Shuttleworth, James S. Famiglietti, and
   Judith A. Burglund, Integration of Remote Sensing and Hydrologic
   Modeling Using Data Assimilation. American Meteorological Society
   Presentation at the 13th Conference on Hydrology, February 7, 1997.
   Houser, P., 1996: Remote-Sensing using Four-Dimensional Data
   Assimilation, Ph.D. Dissertation, The University of Arizona. PDF (Large
   - 70mb)
   Unland, H. E., P. R. Houser, W. J. Shuttleworth, and Z. L. Yang, 1996:
   Surface flux measurement and modeling at a semi-arid Sonoran Desert
   site. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, 82:119-153.
   Shuttleworth, W. J., H. E. Unland, M. A. Arain, J. Garatuza-Payan, C.
   Harlow, P. Houser, P. Scott, and O. L. Sen, 1996: Evaporation from a
   Riparian System on the Santa Cruz River. A report on Research Supported
   by the City of Nogales, Arizona.

                                [marble.gif]
                This page has been accessed [houser1] times.
                     Last updated on March 3, 1997 Paul
                                [marble.gif]
