http://www.orfm.noaa.gov


[img.gif]

                                                                      [img1.gif]

                           Department of Commerce


                    Office of Radio Frequency Management

                                Our Main Menu

                      [people.gif] About Us

                    [document.gif] Our Tools

                    [world.gif] Our Services

                    [mbox.gif] How to Contact

                                             [img21.gif]

                                 What's New

                             Last Update 3/29/99

                                     HOME
   _______________________________________________________________________

        About Us

      OFFICE OF RADIO FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT

   The Office of Radio Frequency Management (ORFM) represents the
   Department of Commerce (DOC) and its various elements in several fora,
   including the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC, see
   below) and its various subcommittees; in discussions with other
   government agencies where there are issues requiring resolution; at
   meetings of international organizations dealing with frequency matters,
   including the Coordinating Group for Meteorological Satellites (CGMS),
   Space Frequency Coordination Group (SFCG) and a working group on Radio
   Frequency Coordination of the World Meteorological Organization.
   Periodically, ORFM also supplies members to U.S. Delegations attending
   meetings of various elements of the International Telecommunications
   Union (ITU, see below.)

        N.B. - The WWW addresses of a number of the organizations referred to
        are given below for those who wish further information about them.

   Within the DOC, the largest user of radio is the National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). NOAA includes the National Weather
   Service (NWS) as well as some less well known but similarly important
   organizations as the National Environmental Satellite, Data and
   Information Service (NESDIS) which operates NOAA's fleet of weather
   satellites; the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) which
   develops new atmospheric research tools; the National Marine Fisheries
   Service (NMFS) which maintains seafood and fisheries regulations; and
   the National Ocean Service (NOS) which supports the oceanic environment
   rules, hydrographic science and ocean mapping.


        Meteorology -- the science of weather -- depends heavily on radio, hence
        depends on the radio spectrum. Radio signals are used for weather radar,
        radiosondes (one type of meteorological aid), weather satellites, wind
        profiling, and many other methods of gathering weather related
        information. They are also used to distribute weather information to the
        public, as by NOAA Weather Radio (NWR).

   You may already know a great deal about frequency management, but most
   people don't. If it's a new subject to you, you're not alone. This page
   is here to provide information on the meteorological use of radio, on
   the present and potential impact on weather forecasting of some of the
   things that are happening today in the field of radio. We have a series
   of tutorials. For those getting in on the ground floor, we define the
   more common terms used in the field and talk about some of the players:
   the organizations and industries that affect, or are expected to affect
   meteorology. For those who are already familiar with the subject and
   want to go directly to a discussion of some of the more serious
   spectrum issues affecting NOAA and meteorology in general, we have that
   too.

    First, the background material:

   What is Frequency Management?

   What is the IRAC ?

   What is the NTIA ?

   What is the ITU ?

   Now, let's deal with some issues...

   What bands are important to meteorology?

   What industry trends are placing pressure on these bands?

   What impact can this have on met users?

   What impact can this have on met industry??

        WHAT IS FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT?

   Frequency Management (also known as spectrum management) involves
   several activities, two of the most important being assignment and
   allocation.

   Assignment is the process of selecting operating frequencies for radio
   equipment, ideally in such a way as to permit each system to operate
   without causing harm (interference) to other systems or receiving
   interference from them.

   Allocation is the process of determining what radio services -- what
   types of station, such as radar, broadcast TV or amateur -- should
   operate in a particular band of frequencies.


        Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

        WHAT IS THE IRAC?

   The Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) was established in
   1922 and now advises the National Telecommunications and Information
   Administration (NTIA) on telecommunications policy, technical and other
   matters affecting the Federal agencies. It comprises representatives
   from several dozen Federal agencies and has observers from several
   more. The IRAC has several standing subcommittees, including:

   The Spectrum Planning Subcommittee (SPS), which reviews major radio
   systems planned by Federal agencies to ensure that they comply with
   applicable Federal equipment standards and communications policy, and
   they can be supported in the bands which their proponents plan to use.

   The Frequency Assignment Subcommittee (FAS), which reviews proposed
   frequency assignments (see below) in Federal bands to determine their
   compatibility with existing operations and applicable rules.

   The Technical Subcommittee (TSC), which develops technical standards
   for Government radio equipment.

   The Radio Conference Subcommittee (RCS), which develops Government
   positions for upcoming international conferences.

   The International Notifications Group (ING), which handles
   international notification of assignments.

   The Aeronautical Standards Groups (ASG), which coordinates assignments
   for Federal aircraft.

   The Space Systems Group (SSG), which handles the coordination of
   Federal space systems with other domestic and foreign satellites.

   The Emergency Planning Subcommittee (EPS), which deals with emergency
   spectrum planning.

   Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX


        WHAT IS THE NTIA?

   The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
   is an element of the Department of Commerce which has among its
   responsibilities the job of exercising the President's responsibility
   under The Communications Act of 1934, As Amended for regulating use of
   the radio spectrum by agencies of the Federal Government. It is
   distinct from ORFM in that it is responsible, through the Secretary of
   Commerce, to the President. ORFM is responsible to the Secretary, just
   as the frequency management offices of the other agencies are
   responsible to the heads of their respective organizations.


        Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

        WHAT IS THE ITU?

   The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) is a specialized U.N.
   agency which coordinates telecommunications matters among member
   countries. Use of the radio spectrum is largely coordinated through the
   Radiocommunications Sector (ITU-R), which develops technical
   coordination criteria and standards for such use, and through various
   periodic conferences attended by member nations of ITU. Perhaps the
   best known of these is the series of World Radiocommunication
   Conferences (WRCs, formerly known as World Administrative Radio
   Conferences. ) The ITU is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.


        Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

        WHAT BANDS ARE IMPORTANT TO METEOROLOGY?

   Weather scientists use a wide variety of frequencies for a number of
   purposes. In some cases different frequencies are used because their
   allocations are different, that is, each band is only allowed to be
   used for certain purposes. In other cases, different bands are used
   because their propagation characteristics differ, and so each band has
   technical advantages compared to others.

   NOAA operates weather radars primarily in two bands, 2700-2900 MHz and
   5600-5650 MHz, although there are occasional operations on other
   frequencies as well. Wind profilers (another form of weather radar)
   operate temporarily at 404.37 MHz but will soon move to 449 MHz. Other
   bands are used also; see below. NOAA Weather Radio (NWR) transmits
   weather forecasts and public safety information at several frequencies
   in the 162 MHz region. Weather satellites operate at a wide variety of
   frequencies, both to collect data and to transmit them from the
   satellite to the ground. Data collection is done from active
   transmitters on the ground called Data Collection Platforms (DCPs).
   Data are also collected by passive sensing, that is, by having the
   satellite sense radiation from the earth and the lower atmosphere,
   providing information about winds, the temperatures of the atmosphere
   and the oceans, and a variety of other matters important to weather
   forecasting.

   NOAA operates two types of weather satellites: geostationary ("geo")
   and non- geostationary ("non-geo"). Geo satellites appear to stand
   still when viewed from the earth, while non-geo satellites are seen to
   circle the earth twice a day, gathering data from all over the planet.
   Because they maintain a constant view of certain parts of the globe,
   geo satellites provide a constant flow of data regarding a limited
   area. NOAA operates two such satellites, called "GOES-East" and
   "GOES-West". GOES is the acronym for Geostationary Operational
   Environmental Satellite. The East bird sits over the equator at 75
   degrees West longitude and GOES West at 135 degrees.

   NOAA's current generation of non-geo satellites is known as the NOAA
   series, while its earlier models went by the name of TIROS. These
   non-geo satellites are polar orbiters, each covering any one point on
   the Earth twice a day. NOAA is now working with the Defense Department
   to develop a series of satellites which will combine the functions of
   the NOAA series with those of the spacecraft in the Defense
   Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), reducing the total number of
   meteorological spacecraft operated by the two agencies.

   Passive sensing by satellite is done primarily at frequencies well
   above 10 GHz. At recent meetings of the World Radiocommunications
   Conference (WARC -92, WRCs -95 and -97) efforts have been made to
   generate agreement on the use of certain frequencies especially well
   suited for passive sensing, by limiting such sensing to these
   frequencies and removing from these bands other operations which could
   interfere with sensing operations.

   Radiosondes ("weather balloons") have an allocation which extends from
   1668.4-1700 MHz, Despite this, NOAA operates its 'sondes mostly in
   1675-1690 MHz because the other frequencies they are permitted to use
   are partially occupied by other users. Radio astronomers work from
   1668.5-1670 MHz; the U.S. 1993 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act took
   away 1670-1675 MHz effective in 1999 so that it could be auctioned off
   to the private sector to provide revenue; the range 1690- 1710 MHz (and
   increasingly, 1682-1690 MHz) is heavily used by weather satellites.

   Weather satellite downlinks (from space to the ground) are primarily in
   the bands 137-138 MHz (Automatic Picture Transmissions (APT) from NOAA
   spacecraft); 1670-1675 MHz transmissions to a few satellite control
   stations; 1682-1690 MHz GOES Variable (GVAR) broadcasts; 1690-1695 MHz
   GOES transmissions of Weather facsimile (WEFAX) and other data; and
   High Resolution Picture Transmissions (HRPT) in the region 1696.5-1710
   MHz from the polar orbiters. APT and HRPT are broadcast worldwide as
   the NOAA satellites pass over any given spot on the Earth. WEFAX and
   GVAR are broadcast throughout the Western Hemisphere continuously from
   the GOES satellites. A variety of metsats operated by other countries
   use many of the same frequencies. Interference is avoided by
   coordination among the satellite operators, with this being made
   possible by the fact that only a small number of such satellites
   exists. Only a small number is needed, since the data gathered by one
   country are shared with all others at no cost. The 400.15-406MHz band
   is used both for METSATS (400.15-403MHz) and radiosondes (allocated in
   the entire band).

   At recent WRCs, efforts have been made to obtain additional downlink
   frequencies. Future generations of metsats will have greatly improved
   instruments capable of providing considerably more and better data. To
   move these data from space to the ground requires additional bandwith
   that is not available under earlier allocations. So, additional
   allocations have been sought (and some obtained) through the ITU.

         [INS:
        :INS] Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

        WHAT INDUSTRY TRENDS ARE PLACING PRESSURE ON THESE BANDS?

   America's increasing dependence on radio signals is very easy to see.
   Almost everyone in the United States has a TV set, many two or three.
   Many of us also have cordless phones, cellular phones, a CB and remote
   controls on our garage doors and our kids' toys. Moreover, the tendency
   is increasing. There is not just one kind of cellular phone (the
   standard "analog" version came first) but several, with yet more to
   come.

   Not so many years ago, there was a tendency to have public utilities
   (electric power, telephone service, cable TV) provided by monopoly
   companies which were regulated by government to ensure that their
   prices were commensurate with their investment, costs and a fair
   profit. Today, this has largely changed. Many utilities are currently
   operating in a competitive environment, with new companies springing up
   to challenge them. The result in some cases (e.g., long distance
   telephone) has been the appearance of new giants such as MCI and Sprint
   who carry long-haul traffic on their own systems, as well as the
   proliferation of smaller "resellers" who buy service at a discount from
   the giants and market it under their own names. Long distance costs
   have dropped, often dramatically, as a result.

   From the spectrum manager's viewpoint, this change has been benign.
   Long distance telephone carriers typically operate over cable and fiber
   optic links which don't use radio at all, or over microwave systems
   which are relatively efficient users of the radio spectrum. They carry
   a lot of channels on a single radio link, minimizing the amount of
   spectrum needed.

   Increasingly, there is pressure to provide competition at the user end
   as well. Not content with his traditional telephones, the consumer
   demanded a cellular phone. The standard cell phone requires a separate
   channel for each user within an area, a far less efficient arrangement
   than that employed by the long-distance companies. Efficiency is helped
   by the cellular nature of the service: each "cell" -- the area within
   which a given frequency is used by a single caller -- is made small so
   that the frequency can be re-used by someone else a few miles away. The
   arrangement is still spectrum-hungry, however, and will become more so
   as more Americans become cellphone customers.

   There is, of course, competition in the cellphone industry as well.
   There were initially two cellphone services in each U.S. region, a
   "wireline" (telephone-company-related) and "non-wireline" (not so
   related) service, both using the same type of radio in the same
   frequency range near 800 MHz. More competitors wanted to play the game,
   so now there is a variety of "Personal Communications Systems", or PCS,
   being set up and marketed under various names. Typically they are
   incompatible with the earlier systems (and often with each other) and
   operate in different bands. These bands did not appear from nowhere;
   they were taken from their earlier users to benefit the PCS companies.

   Soon to appear on the horizon are additional terrestrial PCS systems
   using a variety of other modulation standards and requiring other
   frequency bands. Also coming is PCS-via-satellite, allowing users to
   carry their handsets around the hemisphere or around the world and have
   them work wherever they go. The earliest and perhaps the best known of
   these systems is Iridium, a creature of Motorola. Iridium is to operate
   in the Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) as one of the "Big LEOs", MSS
   systems in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) operating above 1 GHz. There are also
   "Little LEOs" planned to operate below 1 GHz. These are data-only
   networks whose proponents expect to collect data from remote platforms,
   track vehicles, read meters and provide other services compatible with
   the inherently low data rates these systems are able to provide.
   Perhaps the best known Little LEO is ORBCOMM, which received its
   spectrum at WARC-92 and its license shortly thereafter and which hopes
   to become operational in 1998. There are, to be sure, other American
   companies planning both Big and Little LEO systems, as well as foreign
   companies planning such systems in competition with the Americans who
   created the concept. The bands available for the MSS are, of course,
   inadequate to support all those who wish to enter the business. The
   entrepeneurs demand more spectrum be allocated to support the systems
   they hope to build, and regulators in many lands spring to their aid.
   Which of the proposed systems will ever see the light of day, and how
   many such systems the market will actually support, are questions
   perhaps best left unasked in today's intensely pro-competitive climate.

   Even "the phone company" supporting the phone on your kitchen wall is
   no longer unchallenged, as there are those who hope to compete in the
   business of providing local phone service. Some hope to avoid the cost
   of duplicating all the copper wires which now connect your phone to the
   local switch, and instead to replace this "local loop" with a radio.
   These systems are given several names, "wireless local loops" (WLL)
   being one. Like cellular phones, they have the disadvantage of
   requiring radio spectrum not needed by wireline systems. Unlike cell
   phones, they don't operate with mobile terminals and thus don't really
   need to use radio: cable TV coax or a piece of fiber would serve as
   well and provide greater bandwidth to serve other purposes. Radio,
   however, is cheaper to install.

   Both the MSS and WLL have attempted to access meteorological spectrum,
   and both Big and Little LEOs have succeeded in the past and are
   continuing their efforts. WARC-92 provided Little LEOs with an
   allocation in the 137-138 MHz band, used for MetSat downlinks, and in
   400.15-401 MHz, allocated to MetSats and radiosondes. At WRC-95 and
   WRC-97, the United States tried, on behalf of the industry, to expand
   their allocation in the 400.15-406 MHz band but the effort failed due
   to strong objections by other countries. Similarly, WARC-92 provided
   the Aeronautical Public Correspondence Service (ground-to-air radio)
   with a primary allocation in 1670-1675 MHz, and gave Big LEOs a
   primarily allocation throughout the 1675-1710 MHz band in ITU Region 2
   (the Western Hemisphere.) The 1670-1700 MHz band is allocated to
   radiosondes; 1670-1710 MHz is allocated to MetSats. Both of these
   services use their bands heavily. At WRC-97, many foreign countries
   (supporting a foreign MSS proponent) attempted to obtain a worldwide
   allocation for MSS in the 1675-1682 MHz band, to be used with a band
   used worldwide for the Global Positioning System (GPS). This effort
   failed because of intense lobbying by the United States to protect GPS,
   but will certainly be tried again at WRC-99.

   There is yet another source of pressure on the radio spectrum, and that
   is the tendency of our national leaders to treat it as a cash cow.
   There has for years been talk of selling spectrum to raise money for
   the Government, and for years the pressure to do this was resisted. No
   longer. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (OBRA-93)
   required the Federal Government to transfer at least 200 MHz of
   spectrum to the FCC for auction, and NTIA decided to transfer 235 MHz
   for this purpose. The 1997 Balanced Budget Act (BBA-97) mandated the
   transfer of yet another 20 MHz, and NTIA announced in early February,
   1998 the bands to be given up. The greatest loss to meteorology has
   been the 1670-1675 MHz band, which will be lost to radiosondes
   effective in 1999.

        Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

   WHAT IMPACT CAN THIS HAVE ON MET USERS?

   As noted above, the meteorology bands are a primary target of industry.
   One reason is clear: both Big and Little LEOs are global systems which
   would be best served by having the same spectrum available to them
   worldwide. This would simplify the design of their satellites and allow
   use of the same ground terminals around the globe. Coincidentally, the
   primary meteorological bands (137-138 MHz, 400.15-406 MHz and 1670-1710
   MHz) are allocated to meteorology worldwide and, if captured by the
   MSS, would provide them with exactly the sort of arrangement they would
   most like to have. The results show in the history of WARC-92 through
   WRC-97: the industry is working to obtain additional parts of these
   bands.

   The discussion takes place in terms of band sharing with meteorology,
   but "sharing" has several meanings in the ITU's International Radio
   Regulations. One definition includes the removal of present occupants
   from part of a band so it can be given over to the new users. This form
   of "sharing" is, in fact, expropriation. Other types of sharing involve
   limiting the use by both occupants in a way which permits both to use
   the band. The U.S. has decided that the MSS will share 400.15-401 MHz
   by limiting its emissions so as not to interfere with the MetSats using
   the band (time sharing) and with radiosondes by having the radiosondes
   go somewhere else. The U.S. proposals to WRC-97 involved limiting the
   power flux density of MSS satellites in 402-405 MHz so as not to
   interfere with radiosondes (thus mandating the use of spread spectrum
   by the MSS) and removing radiosondes from 405-406 MHz, making this the
   exclusive domain of MSS systems.

   The foreign proposals seen at WRC-97 respecting the 1675-1683 MHz band
   would have required the removal of radiosondes from this spectrum. In
   the United States they are barred from future use of 1670-1675 MHz by
   OBRA-93 (discussed above) and would thus have to use the spectrum above
   1683, where they would interfere with MetSat downlinks. GVAR (GOES
   VARiable data) occupies the region 1682-1690 MHz; WEFAX, EMWIN and
   other data are in 1690-1697 or so, and HRPT from the polar metsats
   occupies 1697-1710 MHz. Clearly, there is no place for the radiosondes
   to go that will not cause problems for MetSat receivers.

        Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

   METSAT RECEIVER DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS

   Those designing MetSat receivers need to bear in mind that the bands
   will be changing significantly in the next few years. Where in the past
   they were the exclusive domain of met systems, they will soon be
   occupied as well by large numbers of commercial satellites. Receivers
   thus must be capable of functioning properly in the presence of
   additional signals, some fairly strong, operating in adjacent channels.
   Selectivity, adjacent channel rejection and resistance to overload will
   become increasingly important in coming years and designing for minimum
   cost may no longer produce adequate equipment.

   In 137-138 MHz, there have already been complaints of interference from
   the few experimental MSS satellites operating in the band. Receivers
   having excessive bandwidth are vulnerable to MSS satellites operating
   in adjacent channels to those used by MetSats.

   In 1675-1700 MHz, there have been instances of interference to GVAR and
   WEFAX receivers caused by radiosondes operating in the adjacent bands.
   Tests reveal this interference to result from excessive bandwidth and
   non-linearity in the front end of satellite receivers. These problems
   will only become worse if the band is eventually occupied by MSS
   satellites, a problem largely avoidable through adequate metsat
   receiver design.


   Go to the 1) TOP of the page or to the 2) INDEX

        Our Tools

        1. Joint Spectrum Management System for Windows (JSMSw)

   The JSMSw software was developed under the management and direction of
   the Department of Defense Joint Spectrum Center (JSC) and the National
   Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), the
   President's principle advisor on telecommunications matters and the
   regulator and manager of the Federal Government radio frequency
   spectrum. JSMSw was developed to fulfill a need to automate many
   processes and to standardize the spectrum management processes
   throughout the Federal Government.

   The JSMSw software enables users in any agency to:

   1. Maintain current frequency assignment records in a standardized
   database format with various selection and analysis capabilities.

   2. Maintain a database of communications-electronics equipment and
   associated technical characteristics in a standard format with various
   selection and analysis capabilities.

   3. Automatically select or nominate frequencies that are interference
   free.

   4. Automatically complete various frequency assignment and major system
   equipment certification application forms.

   5. Validate nominated frequencies via electromagnetic compatibility
   analyses with systems in the existing environment and perform hundreds
   of compliance checks on the accuracy of the nominated frequency
   assignments.

   6. Perform the NTIA-required five-year review of frequency assignments.

   7. Conduct engineering analyses and calculations to:

     a) convert coordinates from one form to another.
     b) develop topographic charts of signal coverage.
     c) determine the necessary satellite look-angles of ground stations.
     d) perform HF skywave propagation analyis
     e) perform link analysis calculations.
     f) draw spectrum-occupancy graphs for frequency bands.

   8. Perform interference analyses to:

     a) predict potential interference conflicts of new frequency
     assignment proposals.
     b) identify potential sources to existing frequency assignments.
     c) nominate new frequencies.

   A JSMSw one-week course is taught by NTIA and experts from other
   agencies via a personal computer hands-on method at the Department of
   Commerce training facility in Washington, DC.


                       2. NTIA Government Master File


        Our Services


        Frequency Assignments

   Each NOAA bureau and each DOC component organization has a designated
   liaison through which operational units within DOC request frequency
   assignments. Each liaison forwards the request for frequency
   assignments to ORFM for completion and submission to NTIA. A list of
   the DOC/NOAA frequency liaisons is given below. Proposals for frequency
   assignments are submitted electronically by ORFM to NTIA. Each member
   agency on the Frequency Assignment Subcommittee (FAS) reviews each
   proposal along with the NTIA action officer assigned to that proposal.
   Each person reviewing the proposal looks for conformance with the NTIA
   Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency
   Management.

   Each agency representative is also looking at each proposal for
   potential interference to his agency's present operations. Upon
   approval on a frequency assignment by the FAS, NTIA issues a radio
   frequency authorization for that assignment and the assignment is
   recorded in the NTIA Government Master File (GMF) of Frequency
   Assignments.

        Frequency Reviews

   Commerce, like all other member agencies, manages its existing
   frequency assignments in the GMF. Experimental assignments are only
   granted authority for a limited time, and ORFM works with the
   appropriate liaison to either allow existing assignments to expire if
   no longer in operation or request renewal by NTIA for continuing
   experimental operations. Permanent operational assignments are required
   to be reviewed every five years for accuracy and retention. ORFM has
   ongoing procedures to work with each liaison to review and update each
   assignment as appropriate.


        How to Contact Us

        The address and telephone numbers for the office are:

                    Office of Radio Frequency Management

                              Room 2246, SSMC-2

                           1325 East-West Highway

                           Silver Spring, MD 20910

                            Phone: (301) 713-1853

                             Fax: (301) 713-1861

                                OFFICE ROSTER

                 Richard Barth (Director) - rbarth@noaa.gov

                    Richard Schlapia - schlapia@noaa.gov

                 Scott E. Jackson - Scott.E.Jackson@noaa.gov

                  Carmelo Rivera - Carmelo.Rivera@noaa.gov

                                [bar_red.gif]

             Other Department of Commerce Contacts And Websites

                      Bureau Telecommunication Contacts

      [nwslogo1.gif] National Weather Service/National Data Buoy Center

                          Current POC: Earl E. Webb

                            Office Code: W/OSO31

                              Room 3466 SSMC-2

                           1325 East-West Highway

                           Silver Spring, MD 20910

                              P:(301) 713-1728

                              F:(301) 608-0978

                         E-mail: Earl.Webb@noaa.gov


                      [nos.gif] National Ocean Service

                         Current POC: Charles Payton

                             Office Code: N/CS41

                              Room 6330 SSMC-4

                           1305 East-West Highway

                           Silver Spring, MD 20910

                          P:(301) 713-2864 Ext. 158

                              F:(301) 713-4465

                          E-mail: CPayton@noaa.gov


[NESDIS1.gif] National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service

                         Current POC: David McGinnis

                             Office Code: E/OSD1

                          Federal Bldg #4 Room 3301

                            Washington, DC 20233

                              P:(301) 457-5125

                              F:(301) 457-5722

                      E-mail: dmcginnis@nesdis.noaa.gov

      [erl.gif] Environmental Research Laboratory Boulder/Institute for
                      Telecommunications Sciences/NIST

                          Current POC: Terri Maraia

                             Office Code: R/EX2

                                325 Broadway

                              Boulder, CO 80303

                              P:(303) 497-6548

                              F:(303) 497-6951

                        E-mail: TMaraia@erl.noaa.gov


                     [bxaseal.gif] Export Administration

                          Current POC: Norma Curtis

                               HCHB Room 4616

                         14^th & Constitution Ave NW

                            Washington, DC 20239

                              P:(202) 482-2252

                              F:(202) 482-0958

                         E-mail: Ncurtis@bxa.doc.gov


                [nmfs.jpg] National Marine Fisheries Service

                           Current POC: Sam Clegg

                              Office Code: F/EN

                        8484 Georgia Ave., Suite 415

                        Silver Spring, MD 20910-5612

                          P:(301) 427-2300 ext.103

                              F:(301) 427-2055

                        E-mail: Sam.E.Clegg@noaa.gov




         [nist7b.gif] National Institute of Standards and Technology

                          Current POC: Harry Fogle

                          Telecommunications Office

                             Bldg. 101, Room B03

                         Gaithersburg, MD 20899-0001

                              P:(301) 975-3330

                              F:(301) 975-3950

                           E-mail: HFogle@nist.gov


 [docseal.gif] DOC/Assistant Secretary for Administration-Telecommunications

                          Current POC: Jerry Gibbon

                               HCHB Room 6608

                         14^th & Constitution Ave NW

                            Washington, DC 20230

                           P:(202) 482-3501 Opt 4

                              F:(202) 482-0077

                           E-mail: JGIBBON@doc.gov


               [ONCO.gif] Office of NOAA corps Operations/ONCO

                          Current POC: Edward Jones

                  Office Code: PMC33, Electronics Division

                           1801 Fairview Ave East

                              Seattle, WA 98102

                              P:(206) 553-0192

                              F:(206) 553-8348

                       E-mail: Edward.E.Jones@noaa.gov

                [aochead3.gif] Office of Aircraft Operations

                Current POCs: Mark Rogers or Damon Sans Souci

                         Aircraft Operations Center

                                P.O. Box 6829

                         MacDill AFB, FL 33608-0829

                        P:(813) 828-3310 Ext. 3058/59

                              F:(813) 828-3266

                       E-mail: Mark.E.Rogers@noaa.gov


                              [cen.gif] Census

                         Current POC: Chris Volatile

                          Federal Bldg #3 Room 1101

                             4700 Silver Hill Rd

                             Suitland, MD 20746

                              P:(301) 457-1805

                              F:(301) 457-4438

               E-mail:Christopher.D.Volatile@ccmail.census.gov


                             [ntia.gif] DOC/NTIA

                       Current POC: William Cooperman

                               HCHB Room 4625

                         14^th & Constitution Ave NW

                            Washington, DC 20239

                              P:(202) 482-5802

                              F:(202) 482-2156

                       E-mail: WCooperman@ntia.doc.gov




   [PAT.gif] Patent and Trademark Office/USPTO

   Current POC: Roger Chin

   2121 Crystal Drive

   Suite 1001, Room C1003

   Arlington, VA 22202

   P:(703) 305-8832

   F:(703) 308-5582

   E-mail: Roger.Chin@uspto.gov

                               [bar_brbl.gif]





                                 What's New?




   SATELLITE NETWORK COST RECOVERY


   During the Plenipotentiary Conference in Kyoto, Japan in 1994,
   Resolution 39 endorsed the examination of options for strengthening the
   financial base of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU),
   including reducing costs, more effective allocation of resources,
   ranking of activities according to the objectives of the strategic
   plan, wider participation of entities other than Member States and,
   where appropriate, charging fees for ITU services, particularly where
   these services are sought on a discretionary basis or to a greater
   extent than the level of facilities generally provided. Following that
   meeting, recommendation 20 of the ITU-2000 Group recommended that the
   Council implement the use, as extensively as possible, of cost recovery
   for products and services and consider additional opportunities for
   cost recovery that might prove promising. At the Plenipotentiary
   Conference in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1998, Resolution COM5/21
   resolved that cost recovery for satellite network filings shall be
   implemented as soon as possible. COM5/21 also instructed the Council to
   establish a working group, open to all administrations and to satellite
   network operators which are Sector Members of the Radiocommunication
   Sector, in order to make recommendations to the 1999 session of the
   Council on the costing methodology to be used with respect to the
   resolves in COM5/21 and a schedule of charges. This Working Group had
   its first meeting in Geneva, Switzerland the week of the 25th of
   January. The following are the Preliminary Conclusions from that
   meeting: (Documents mentioned above can be found on the ITU website
   listed below.)


       Council Working Group on the Implementation of Cost Recovery for
                          Satellite Network Filings

                           Preliminary Conclusions


   The Working Group came to the following preliminary conclusions:

   a) the basis of payment would be a fixed charge for a publication in
   each of the categories and this fixed payment would entitle the
   publication of X pages. The fixed charge would be different for each of
   the categories. The value of X for each of the categories would be the
   [average] number of pages in each of the following categories:
     *   Advance Publication (non-GSO, non coordination)
     *   Coordination Request RR 1060, including Resolution 33
       coordination requests
     *   Joint Coordination requests RR 1060/Res.46 (GSO case)
     *   Res. 46 request alone (non-GSO case)
     *   "Small" RR 1060 coordination requests
     *   AP30/AP30A up to 5-channel, national coverage
     *   AP30/30A > 5 channel and/or multinational coverage
     *   AP30B
     *   NGSO subject only to Article S9.21

   These values would be reviewed at the next meeting of the Working
   Group;

   b) any Special Section that has more than the X pages for that category
   would be subject to an additional payment per page;

   c) the categories would be those listed above;

   d) any modification/additions to publication previously published would
   be covered by the page limit of the total publication including the
   modifications/addenda and possible extra payment if applicable;

   e) the cost elements to be included in the cost analysis would be those
   agreed to during the meeting and listed in Document 10 of that meeting
   (not available);

   f) each administration would be entitled to one publication in each of
   categories at no charge. The administration would determine when to use
   the free entitlement;

   g) payment, within a period to be determined, would be on the basis of
   an invoice sent to the notifying Administration after the publication
   of the Special Section;

   h) there should be some identified consequences of non payment and
   these may be reflected in the instruments of the ITU and the WRC-2000
   should be requested to consider this matter by the 1999 Council and as
   provided for in the "instructs the WRC-2000" of Resolution COM5/21;

   i) the publication of Special Sections for the Amateur satellite
   service would be exempt from any charges;

   j) inter-governmental organizations operating satellite networks would
   also be subject to the cost recovery process;

   k) taking into consideration resolves 2 of Resolution COM5/21, the
   Working Group confirmed that the only requests that would be subject to
   any cost recovery fees are those for which the associated API was
   received after 7 November 98 and thus for any network for which the API
   was received prior to that date, there would be no cost recovery fees
   for the coordination request regardless as to when it is received by
   the BR. In addition, any changes/additions to any coordination
   publication is not subject to fees if the associated API was received
   before that date. In the case of those categories for which there is no
   API it is the date of receipt of the request for modification to a plan
   that determines if it is subject to any charges.

   The Working Group is scheduled to meet once more in the month of June
   immediately preceding the ITU Council 1999 meeting scheduled for the
   same month.



     Links of Interest

    International Telecommunications Union (ITU)

   National Telecommunications and Information Agency (NTIA)

   Inter-American Telecommunication Commission (CITEL)

   Conference of European Postal and Telecommunications Administrations
   (CEPT)

   Federal Communications Commission (FCC)

   U. S. Department of Commerce (DOC)

   National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)

   National Weather Service (NWS)

   Lloyd's Satellite Constellations

      [img31.gif]

                               Carmelo Rivera

                               (301) 713-1853

                              Room 2246, SSMC-2

                           1325 East-West Highway

                           Silver Spring, MD 20910

                           Carmelo.Rivera@noaa.gov

                          Webmaster, Carmelo Rivera
                             Revised -- 3/29/99
