http://lena.gsfc.nasa.gov

   LENA banner

   [menu_background.jpg]
   Summary Plots
   Custom Plots
   LENA Publications
   Download Data
   LENA Modelling
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   LENA Instrument
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   LENA Team
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   Neutral Atom References
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   Technical Documents
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]
   Development Area
   [menu_background_sm.jpg]

                     IMAGE logo - transfer to IMAGE home

                               Generate Orbits

                                   Movies

                                 News Items
                  Last updated: Thursday, January 24, 2002

   • 13 December 2001 - The Dawn of a New Age

   Image of AGU Fall 2001 Logo Just over four decades ago, with America
   reeling in the wake of the Soviet Sputnik 1, a little-known scientist
   from the cornfields of Iowa proposed a scientific satellite named
   Explorer. Launched on January 31, 1958, it returned ground-breaking
   scientific data about the eponymous Van Allen radiation belts
   encircling the Earth.
   On December 13, 2001 another pioneer in space physics was honored at
   the Fall American Geophyiscal Union where Dr. James Burch delivered the
   Van Allen Lecture on "Magnetospheric Imaging - Promise to Reality." Dr.
   Burch explained how the six scientific instruments on the IMAGE
   spacecraft give latter-day space scientists "new eyes" and allow them
   for the first time to understand the Earth's magnetosphere as a global
   system. Among the new discoveries featured in his talk were LENA images
   of the Earth losing its atmosphere in direct response to solar wind
   pressure variations.
   A movie of the localized ion outflow in response to solar wind pressure
   pulses was presented; to view this movie, click here (1.66MB)
   • 19 October 2001 - LENA on the Airwaves

   Image of Earth and Sky Logo "In the grand sense, what we're trying to
   do is develop a meteorology of space so that we can both know how to
   design a spacecraft to survive out there and also have some warning of
   space storms, " explained Dr. Thomas E. Moore in an interview conducted
   by Earth and Sky Radio Series which ran earlier this week. The first
   part of the two-part program explained how the solar wind, a stream of
   mostly charged particles from the Sun, can disrupt communications on
   Earth. The second part discussed how scientists working with the LENA
   data may be able to predict using the small neutral component of the
   solar wind when these "space storms" are about to occur. (click here
   for transcript and audio on solar wind) (click here for transcript and
   audio on neutral solar wind).
   • 8 August 2001 - LENA imager team collects more than just neutral
   atoms

   Image of LENA Group Achievement Award The NASA Group Achievement Award
   is granted in recognition of an outstanding accomplishment that has
   been made through the coordination of many individual efforts and has
   contributed substantially to the accomplishment of the mission of NASA.
   This year NASA Headquarters bestowed this honor upon the Low Energy
   Neutral Atom (LENA) Imager team citing its "dedication to the
   successful development" of this unprecedented instrumentation (click
   here for award citation) (click here for LENA slide from ceremony).
   • 19 June 2001 - LENA Participates in Technology Showcase 2001

   Image of Technical Show NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center , a world
   leader in the development and use of 21st century advanced technology,
   works to expand scientific discovery, to enable the nation to
   accomplish more cutting-edge science at low cost, and to fortify its
   leadership role as a national resource of new technology. To this end,
   Goddard held its third technology showcase on June 14-15, 2001. LENA
   was one of 107 new technologies presented to the public. Click here for
   a screen version (3.8 MBytes) of the LENA poster (PDF Version). Click
   here for a print version (13.1 MBytes) of the LENA poster (PDF
   Version).
   • 5 June 2001 - Science Covers LENA Neutral Wind Discovery

   Image of Science Logo Science Now, an online news service of Science
   magazine, has published a popular account of the recent LENA neutral
   solar wind discovery (click the title above for a link to the news
   item). The article summarizes the significance of this first
   observation of neutral atoms from the solar wind, and points to this
   page as well as to a related Science now article on space weather and
   storms.
   • 4 May 2001 - LENA Imager Operations Anniversary

   Image of LENA Birthday Cake The LENA team celebrated one year of LENA
   science operations last night with traditional Maryland fare: seafood,
   and a birthday cake. With only one year's worth of science data under
   her belt so far, LENA already has notched a plethora of accomplishments
   including imaging ionospheric outflow and its response to CMEs,
   observing the neutral solar wind, and interstellar neutrals. More to
   come...

                              [ More LENA News]

   LENA is a collaboration led by GSFC of six different institutions: GSFC
   Logo University of MD University of New Hampshire Lockheed Martin
   University of Bern Denver University

          NASA/GSFC Privacy Statement, Disclaimer, and Accessibility
       Certification
                   NASA/GSFC Security and Privacy Statement
       Please send any questions/comments to: web@goewin.gsfc.nasa.gov
                        Last revised: 24 January 2002
