http://hembase.niddk.nih.gov

                                 [title.gif]
                                   [EMBED]
                                 [arrow.gif]

     Based on the rapid growth of genomic information databases, a broad
    description of genes transcribed in hematopoietic or blood cells will
      soon be realized. Hembase is being developed to provide worldwide
   access to those genetic-based studies of hematopoietic cells performed
   by scientists in the Molecular Biology and Genetics Section, Laboratory
       of Chemical Biology, Division of Intramural Research, National
      Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK).

                                CURRENT FOCUS

        The production of red blood cells occurs by a process called
      erythropoiesis whereby erythroid progenitor cells proliferate and
      differentiate into erythroid precursor cells (see figure above).
     Normally, this process is highly dependent upon and regulated by a
           hormone produced by the kidneys called erythropoietin.

    Our laboratory is currently investigating genes transcribed in human
     erythroid cells as they differentiate into mature red blood cells.
   Proliferating human erythroid cells are critical for the production of
    approximately 10(11) red blood cells during every day of adult human
    life. Red blood cells have the fundamental role of delivering oxygen
   from the lungs to the other body tissues, and diseases associated with
      erythroid cells affect millions of people. Hence, our focus is to
   investigate the production of red cells at the transcriptional level in
     order to better understand and treat human diseases involving those
                                   cells.

                        PROLIFERATING ERYTHROID CELLS

   Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured in the presence
        or absence of erythropoietin. CD71++++ cells arising only in
      erythropoietin-supplemented medium were isolated by fluorescence
     activated cell sorting. Those cells demonstrated an average of six
       additional doublings in suspension culture and erythroid colony
    formation in methylcellulose. Messenger RNA was used to generate gene
        libraries from those erythropoietin dependent, CD71++++ cell
    populations. The National Institutes of Health Intramural Sequencing
       Center (NISC) carried out the sequencing and/or homology search
       analyses that can be accessed by clicking on the button below.
                              [bsearch_up.gif]
