http://jailbird.fsl.noaa.gov

   Masthead - AWIPS at Denver

   SDD bar
    U. Herbert Grote, Division Chief The Systems Development Division
       (SDD) of the Forecast Systems Laboratory (FSL) is responsible for
       the development of real-time forecasting workstations and for
       providing engineering consultation to system developers both inside
       and outside the Laboratory. SDD develops systems for "operational
       demonstrations" of new and advanced forecasting techniques and
       technology.
       SDD has pursued several opportunities for cooperative system
       development work with other countries. Visitors from The People's
       Republic of China and Taiwan have joined the Division in the
       development of the WFO-Advanced workstation.
       This Division consists of four components:

             AD Button               DA Button
          Advanced Display
       Systems Branch

                                  Data Acquisition
                              and Dissemination Branch
             TCS Button              SA Button
       Technical Communication
       Services

                              Scientific Applications
                              Group

   Projects bar
   These are the major projects being pursued by SDD staff:

   Display Two Dimensional (D2D) 2-dimensional weather viewing tools for
   NWS operational forecasters that comprises most of the in-office
   component of the NWS Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System
   (AWIPS).
   FX-Linux a version of AWIPS that runs on commodity personal computers
   using the Linux operating system. NWS plans to migrate AWIPS field
   installations onto a high-speed local network connecting commodity PCs
   running Linux. FSL has been assisting in the design and development of
   this plan.
   Range Standardization and Automation (RSA) Developing enhancements to
   D2D to support Air Force space operations at the Western Range launch
   facility.
   FX-Collaborate An operational prototype of a collaborative forecast
   system.
   Display Three Dimensional (D3D) 3-dimensional weather viewing tools for
   NWS operational forecasters.
   Emergency Management Dissemination System (EMDS) Provides an avenue for
   NWS offices to share data with local emergency management officials.
   Mesoscale Analysis and Prediction System (MAPS)/Rapid Update Cycle
   (RUC) Surface Assimilation Systems (MSAS/RSAS) Used at NWS field
   offices to analyze and quality control local surface observations.
   Meteorological Assimilation Data Ingest System (MADIS) An observation
   distribution and packaging system that provides quality-controlled
   surface observations and an applications programmer interface for their
   retrieval by government, university, and private customers.

   Personnel bar

       Office staff can be reached by e-mail at:

       -
        Herb Grote, Division Chief (Civil Service)
                                                  grote@fsl.noaa.gov
       -
        Darien Davis, Systems (Civil Service)
                                                  davis@fsl.noaa.gov
       -
        Deanne Bengston, Secretary (Civil Service)
                                                  bengston@fsl.noaa.gov

   Weather Sites bar
       If you're looking for sites with current weather information, check
       out one of the resources listed below, or any of the other sites
       listed on the FSL Home Page.

     * The official NOAA weather page
     * Local conditions as reported by NCAR (Boulder)
     * The Boulder County Weather Page (Boulder County)
     * Intellicast (international)

   Visitor Information bar
       For information on visiting FSL, please contact the visitor
       information office at (303) 497-6045 for further information.

   [USEMAP:fslred.gif]


    This site designed and maintained by: Will von Dauster
       Last modified: 4 December 2001
