http://pages.cidr.nhgri.nih.gov

     CIDR Logo Header

                                  Services
                          Location Pricing Schedule



                Application
                Information
                General Information Access Criteria
                Application         Deadlines

                                          Project Scheduling

                    INQUIRIES Frequently Asked Questions
                                    Next


                                 New Service
                               [mousegeno.gif]

   The Center for Inherited Disease Research (CIDR) is a centralized
   facility established to provide genotyping and statistical genetics
   services for investigators seeking to identify genes that contribute to
   human disease. CIDR concentrates primarily on multifactorial hereditary
   disease although linkage analysis of single gene disorders can also be
   accommodated. CIDR was established in 1996 as a joint effort by eight
   Institutes at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Three additional
   Institutes joined the effort in 1999, and another in 2000. Mouse
   genotyping services were added in 2000.

   The facility is supported through a $21 million federal contract
   (number N01-HG-65403) to
   The Johns Hopkins University (JHU) with Dr. David Valle of the JHU
   Institute of Genetic Medicine as Principal Investigator. Dr. Robert
   Nussbaum of the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) serves
   as the government Project Officer.

   Current capacity is approximately 6 million genotypes per year. CIDR is
   beginning an expansion to accommodate 11 million genotypes per year.

   Technology development efforts at CIDR currently focus on the
   investigation of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping and
   analysis methods.

   The twelve supporting Institutes of the Center for Inherited Disease
   Research include:
     * The National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) serving as the
       lead agency
     * The National Cancer Institute (NCI)
     * The National Eye Institute (NEI)
     * The National Institute on Aging (NIA)
     * The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
       (NICHD)
     * The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication
       Disorders (NIDCD)
     * The National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR)
     * The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
       Diseases (NIDDK)
     * The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
     * The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS)
     * The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH)
     * The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS)

   JHU Logo NIH Logo


                                    Next


     Comments/ questions? Contact the Webmaster: webmaster@cidr.jhmi.edu
