http://www.nyed.uscourts.gov

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [bench1.jpg]
   [scales2.jpg]
   [pbanner1.jpg]
   [cjc1.jpg]

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    www.nyed.uscourts.gov


   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Home
                    General Information
                    Local Documents
                    Jury Service
                    Court Calendar
                    CM/ECF
                    Decisions of Interest
                    Cases of Interest
                    Notices
                    Help
                    System Status
                    What's New
                    Search this Site
                    FTP Site
                    Other NYED Sites
                    Links
                    Disclaimer
                    Security & Privacy

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]


   Beginning January 1, 2002
    All civil(cv) cases filed in the United States District Court for the
   Eastern District of New York will be placed in the Courts Case
   Management/Electronic Case Files System (CM/ECF).

   Access to the information on this system is currently available at no
   charge; however, a user fee, approved by the Judicial conference of the
   United States, may be applied in the future.

   Welcome to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
    New York. The Eastern District has 14 Active Judges, 6 Senior Judges
   and 13 Magistrate Judges. The district comprises the counties of Kings,
   Nassau, Queens, Richmond, and Suffolk and concurrently with the
   Southern
   District, the waters within the counties of Bronx and New York. The
   Eastern
   District has a population of eight million people.

   The main courthouse, located at 225 Cadman Plaza East, is in the civic
   center of
   Brooklyn and is directly adjacent to Brooklyn Heights, the first
   Historic District named
   as such in the City of New York. Only a short distance from the
   courthouse's current
   location is the site of Gen. George Washington's escape to Manhattan
   during the
   American Revolution, an escape that ensured a later victory for his
   army. Cadman
   Plaza, itself was named after Samuel Parkes Cadman, a popular Brooklyn
   Minister
   in the early twentieth century who was one of the first to use radio as
   means to
   reach his audience.

   For the next few years, the courthouse will be undergoing expansion and
   modernization
   as the low-rise wing of the complex is removed. A larger facility,
   designed by the
   world-renowned architect, Cesar Pelli, the designer of the World
   Financial Center
   and the new Washington, DC Airport, will be built on that site to meet
   the
   enhanced needs of the Judiciary and the public.

   The Divisional Office is located in Central Islip, Suffolk County, on
   Long Island. It is
   situated near Hecksher State Park, the Connetquot River State Park
   Preserve, Bayard
    Cutting Arboretum State Park, and the Caleb Smith State Park Preserve.
   The
   Courthouse in Central Islip was designed by Richard Meier with ground
   breaking
   on July 22, 1997. Construction completed in the Summer of 2000. It is
   the second
   largest courthouse in the country and the largest structure on Long
   Island. The courthouse
   accommodates the District Court, the Bankruptcy Court, Pretrial
   Services and Probation
   Department as well as the US Marshall's Service, US Attorney's Offices
   and several
   State Court offices.

   For information or comments about this Web site,
   please contact: webmaster@nyed.uscourts.gov
   This e-mail address should NOT be used for inquiries regarding cases,
   opinions, photocopies or other types of information requests; however,
   comments on or suggestions for this Web site are welcome.
   Designed and Maintained by: U.S. District Court - Eastern New York,
   Systems Dept.
   Copyright © 1997-2002 U.S. District Court - Eastern New York
   Last Updated: January 23, 2002
    All rights reserved.
   Home Search this Site Disclaimer Security & Privacy Help

        Copyright © 1997-2001 U.S. District Court - Eastern New York
                       Last Modified January 23, 2002
