http://landview.census.gov

                             U.S. Census Bureau

                                 LandView^®
  A Viewer for the Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Census Bureau, and
                    U.S. Geological Survey Data and Maps

                                    rule

                blue ball ATTENTION: Current LandView Status

   We are currently working on LandView 5 which contains Census 2000 data.
       This version supercedes LandView IV and LandView III which are
       based on 1990 Census data.
       LandView reflects the collaborative efforts of the U.S.
       Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Census Bureau, the
       U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), and the National Oceanic and
       Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to provide the public ready
       access to published Federal spatial and related data.
       The LandView product contains two software programs - the LandView
       database manager and the MARPLOT^® map viewer. These two programs
       work in tandem to create a simple computer mapping system that can
       display individual layers of information that have spatial
       information associated with them. For example, the LandView EPA
       database shows information reported to the EPA for a selection of
       EPA-regulated sites while MARPLOT provides the capability of
       identifying the sites on a map.
       The LandView database program allows users to browse and query
       records extracted from the Environmental Protection Agencys
       Envirofacts Warehouse, demographic statistics from the U.S. Census
       Bureaus Decennial Census, and the USGS Geographic Names Information
       System. The LandView program provides the following capabilities:

    1. Display current or queried records on a map.
    2. Calculate the population and housing counts within a radius.
    3. Export data to popular spreadsheet and database formats.
    4. Locate a street address on the map.
    5. Create thematic maps displaying census demographic data.
    6. Provide Internet access to the online databases of EPA, Census and
       USGS.

   The MARPLOT desktop mapping system creates computerized maps that the
   user can customize by turning on or off various map layers such as
   roads, hazardous waste facilities, schools and places. These maps cover
   the entire United States and display:

    1. EPA regulated sites.
    2. A detailed network of major and minor roads (over 6.3 million
       miles), rivers, and railroads based on the U.S. Census Bureau's
       TIGER/Line® files.
    3. Legal entities (states, counties, cities and towns, and
       congressional districts).
    4. Census statistical entities (such as census tracts and block
       groups).
    5. Geographic names for places, features, and areas from the USGS
       Geographic Names Information System.

   In addition, MARPLOT has the following capabilities:

    1. It can select and display sites based on feature name, its location
       within a specified radius from a point on the map, or its location
       within another map object such as legal or statisical area.
    2. Identify the state, county, census tract and block group associated
       with the position of the MARPLOT map pointer.

   blue ball The Evolution of LandView

  Partners:

   Please click on the LandView partner agency logo to go to their web
   site.

   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency            U.S. Geological Survey
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration U.S. Census Bureau

        Comments or questions may be sent to: landview@geo.census.gov

                                    rule

               Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Geography Division,
                         Products and Services Staff
                  Last Revised: Friday, 16-Nov-01 11:01:26
   Skip this main site navigation menu Census 2000  |  Subjects A to Z  |
      Search  |  Product Catalog  |  Data Tools  |  FOIA  |  Quality  |
                 Privacy · Policies  |  Contact Us  |  Home
           U.S. Census Bureau: Helping You Make Informed Decisions
