http://lactation.od.nih.gov

         The NIH Work and Family Life Center (WFLC)


                                                    WFLC Home
                                                    What's New
                                                    Contact Us
                                                    Site Index


                               Horizontal Rule

                                [spacer.gif]

   Skip navigation, go to content for this page.

   Work/Life at NIH
   Work/Life Consultation
   Career Consultation
   Child Care Referral
   Elder Care Referral
   Lactation Program
   Seminar Series
   Career Workshops
   Customized Training
   Resource Library
   Computer Resources
   Hot Links
      Search
      ______ Submit





   Vertical Rule

      The NIH Lactation Program

      At NIH, we care about the health and wellbeing of our employees. We
      know that returning to work after a having new baby can be difficult,
      especially for women who choose to breastfeed. We want to provide the
      worksite assistance you need for you and your baby to remain happy and
      healthy.

      In September 1998, NIH started a two-year pilot program to help nursing
      mothers make this transition more easily. The pilot was so successful
      that the NIH Lactation Program is now a permanent part of the Work and
      Family Life Center's services.

      The Lactation Program includes:
        * prenatal breastfeeding education classes taught at various
          locations on campus
        * telephone support while on maternity leave, providing advice and
          problem-solving during the first critical weeks
        * return-to-work consultation
        * onsite lactation rooms in various buildings, all equipped with
          breast pumps.

      The NIH Lactation Program services are available free of charge.
      However, you do need to register in order to take advantage of the
      consultations, classes, and lactation rooms. If you have any questions
      about the program, you can contact our Lactation Consultants.

      Benefits of Breastfeeding

      Human milk is superior for infant feeding and is designed to meet the
      unique needs of human infants. Breastfed infants enjoy additional
      general health, growth and developmental benefits. Breastfeeding
      provides infants with protection from certain infections of the
      respiratory tract, ear, brain and spinal cord, and gastrointestinal and
      urinary tracts. Furthermore, breastfeeding may help prevent sudden
      infant death syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes, and diseases of the
      digestive system, colon, and lymphatic system. Breastfeeding may also
      reduce the risk of your baby developing allergies.

      As a mother, you benefit from breastfeeding your baby by experiencing
      less bleeding after delivery and a more rapid return of the uterus to
      its normal size. Breastfeeding also helps speed your return to your
      pre-pregnancy weight, prevents calcium loss from your bones, and
      reduces your risk of developing ovarian and premenopausal breast
      cancers.

      Breast milk is more economical than formula, and since breastfed
      infants tend to be healthier, you may lose less time from work to care
      for a sick baby.

      NIH Lactation Program Services

      Prenatal/Breastfeeding Education
      Classes entitled "Is Breastfeeding for You?" and "How to Get Started
      with Breastfeeding" are taught at various locations on campus. The
      ideal time to attend class is in the third trimester of your pregnancy.
      Choose the class you would like to attend from the schedule below, or
      contact our Lactation Consultants to arrange lunchtime classes for your
      group or building.

      Telephone Support while on Maternity Leave
      Our Lactation Consultants provide support and problem solving over the
      phone during the critical first weeks that you're home with your new
      baby.

      [ back to top ]

      Return to Work Consultation
      Approximately two weeks prior to returning to work you will receive a
      private consultation with the Lactation Consultants concerning how to
      collect and store your milk and other issues related to the transition
      back to work.

      [ back to top ]

      Onsite Lactation Rooms
      Rooms are open in Buildings 10, 31, 37, 38, 45, 49, Rockledge II, the
      Neuroscience Research Center at 6001 Executive Blvd, EPS/EPN, 6100
      Executive Boulevard, 301 Stonestreet, and on the Frederick campus and
      Poolesville -- Building 10, Room 112. Each room is available for new
      mothers to collect their breast milk. Please review the Lactation Room
      Guidelines. You should contact the Lactation Consultants to schedule
      time to use the lactation rooms during the workday to minimize the
      disruption of your daily work routine.

      The rooms are equipped with Medela Lactina breast pumps. Use of the
      breast pumps is free, however you will need to purchase your own
      personal kit. As needs are identified and space becomes available
      additional Lactation Rooms will be added. For employees not located
      near a lactation room, or for male NIH employees whose wives have
      recently given birth, rental breastpumps can be arranged through the
      Lactation Consultants at a low monthly rate.

      You must be enrolled in the Lactation Program in order to take
      advantage of these services. Simply fill out the registration form and
      our Lactation Consultants will contact you. There is no charge for any
      of these services, although you will have to purchase your own kit to
      connect to the lactation room breast pumps.

      [ back to top ]

      NIH Lactation Consultants

      Jane J. Balkam, RNC, CPNP, IBCLC, of Babies 'n Business, a local
      Lactation Consultant, specializing in worksite lactation programs,
      administers the NIH Lactation Program. Mrs. Balkam is a pediatric nurse
      practitioner and certified Lactation Consultant who has been managing
      worksite lactation programs in the Washington, DC area for over five
      years. She can be reached at (301)435-7850, or by e-mail at
      balkamj@od.nih.gov.

      Colleen M. Prorok, RS, MSN, IBCLC, is a Lactation Consultant with
      Babies 'n Business. She has over 20 years experience in pediatric
      nursing, and has been a certified Lactation Consultant for more than a
      decade. Mrs. Prorok can be reached by telephone at (301) 435-7850 or
      via e-mail at prorokc@od.nih.gov.

      Prenatal Breastfeeding Education Classes

      Prenatal Education classes are open to all women working at NIH who
      have registered for the Worksite Lactation Program. There is no cost
      for participation. The classes are designed to complement the classes
      offered by your hospital or childbirth educator. The series consists of
      two classes: "Is Breastfeeding for You? and "How to Get Started with
      Breastfeeding?" The classes will be offered at the locations, dates and
      times listed below.

      Is Breastfeeding for You? - In this class we will discuss why breast
      milk is the best milk for human infants, some common myths about
      breastfeeding, resources available at NIH and in the community to help
      you be successful with breastfeeding, and how to choose the right
      breast pump to meet your needs. If you are trying to decide whether to
      try breastfeeding, come and get your questions answered in this class.

      How to Get Started with Breastfeeding! - In this class we will discuss
      how the body makes breast milk and the basic techniques you need to
      know to get off to a successful start with breastfeeding. We will also
      discuss why you should avoid artificial nipples in the early weeks and
      how to prevent and/or manage some of the common problems women face in
      the early weeks of breastfeeding.

      Class Schedule:

      All classes are in Building 31, Room B3C36, from Noon to 1:00 p.m.

      Please indicate in the comments section of your registration form the
      class and date you would like to attend.

   2002 CLASSES

   "Is Breastfeeding for You"

                             "How to Get Started With Breastfeeding"

   January 10                January 17
   March 14                  March 21
   May 8                     May 15

       WFLC Home : Work/Life at NIH : Work/Life Consultation : Career
    Consultation : Workshops & Training : NIH Lactation Program : Seminar
   Series : Hot Links : Resource Library : Resource & Referral Services :
    Computer Resources : What's New : Contact Us : About Our Staff : Site
                             Index : Disclaimer
