http://www.fedhelpdesk.osf.noaa.gov

                               Welcome to the
   Federal Help Desk Registry
   hosted by the
   NEXRAD Radar Operations Center
   in Norman, Oklahoma
                              Privacy Statement

   Register for the 2001 Federal Help Desk Forum
   This registry is facilitated by the NEXRAD Hotline supporting the
   Nation's Doppler weather radar network, to improve interaction, bench
   marking, and exchange of best practices among all federal help desks,
   call centers, and customer support centers. It is a strictly nonprofit,
   goodwill initiative to enhance the front line delivery of support and
   services in the federal sector for the Nation.
   THERE IS NO COST TO JOIN!
   WHO CAN JOIN?
   All federal government help desks and call centers are eligible.
   Registration must be done by a federal employee. If your help desk or
   call center is operated under contract, a government POC should
   complete the registration. Each federal help desk or call center should
   register only once. However multiple operations at the same site should
   register separately.
   HOW TO JOIN...
   To register your federal government help desk or call center operation,
   simply click on the appropriate profile type "Quick" or "Full" below.
   WHAT YOU GET...
   The profile data collected will be shared with every member in a format
   which can be used to identify and contact other members for the
   exchange of information, contacts and best practices. Other benefits
   and services will be determined based upon the requests of registrants.
   WHO'S RESPONSIBLE?
   All inquiries regarding this registry should be directed to Daryl
   Covey, Federal Help Desk Registry Coordinator at Daryl.L.Covey@noaa.gov
   or 405-366-6510 ext 1232. All comments and suggestions are welcome.
      WHO SHOULD WE THANK?


   -- James D. Belville, Director, NEXRAD ROC
   -- Bill Haden and Mark Roper, Information Services Group, NEXRAD ROC
   -- Terry King, Program Branch, NEXRAD ROC
   -- Others too numerous to mention.


   [Quick Register] -
   Recommended for new help desks
   Provides contact information for your help desk or call center to
   others who register and gets you their registration information so that
   you can selectively network based on your information needs.
   [Full Register] -
   Recommended for mature help desks
   Provides contact information and operationally descriptive information
   on your help desk or call center for others to use for networking with
   you based on similarity of support, support systems, call volume, etc.
   By using this option, you optimize the time of others who may wish to
   contact you and increase the overall value of this registry.
   [Download the Form] -
   For Preparation for the Online Form, or Fax

   NOAA Page Author: Terry King
        Last Modified: 12/9/99
