http://www.whitehouse.gov


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   Appointments
   Application
   Major Speeches
   Presidential Address 10-7
   Joint Session 9-20
   National Day
   of Prayer 9-14
   Joint Session 2-27
   Inaugural 1-20
   Photos
   Photo of President Bush preparing for his State of the Union address.
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag


   Today at the White House Jan. 30, 2002

   President Delivers State of the Union Address
   In his State of the Union Address, President Bush committed our nation
   to achieving three great goals of our time: Winning the war on
   terrorism, strengthening protections of our homeland and revitalizing
   our economy and creating jobs.   full story
   watch View the State of the Union
   Fact sheet Read about USA Freedom Corps
   Fact sheet Go to the State of the Union web page
   President Creates USA Freedom Corps
   In his State of the Union Address, President Bush called on all
   Americans to serve their nation for the equivalent of two years (4,000
   hours) over their lifetimes, and announced a major new citizen service
   initiative - the USA Freedom Corps.   full story
   USA Freedom Corps Citizen Corps
   President Meets with Afghan Interim Authority Chairman
   President Bush told Afghan Interim Authority Chairman Hamid Karzai
   Monday, "Two days ago, for the first time since 1979, an American flag
   was raised over the U.S. Agency for International Development's mission
   in Kabul. That flag will not be lowered. It will wave long into the
   future, a symbol of America's enduring commitment to Afghanistan's
   future."   full story
   Fact sheet Joint Statement on New Partnership Between U.S. and
   Afghanistan
   Fact sheet Fact Sheet
   President Urges Progress on Medicare
   While meeting with Congressional members Monday, President Bush said,
   "We need a comprehensive reform plan that includes prescription drugs
   for every senior. And the will of the folks around this table is to
   work together to do just that, is to make sure our seniors have got the
   capacity to have a -- to purchase prescription drugs."   full story en
   Español
   Fact sheet Fact Sheet: Strengthening Medicare
   More White House News
     President Bush directs discussions of the State of the Union speech
   with senior White House staff members Andy Card, Karen Hughes and Dr.
   Condoleezza Rice in the Oval Office Thursday, January 24. White House
   photo by Eric Draper.
      President Bush directs discussions of the State of the Union speech
      with senior White House staff members Andy Card, Karen Hughes and Dr.
      Condoleezza Rice in the Oval Office Thursday, January 24.


   Inside the White House
   America Responds to Terrorism at Home & Abroad
   The war on terrorism is being fought on two fronts: at home and abroad
   through diplomatic, military, financial and investigative actions.
   Learn more about this multi-faceted operation.

      America Responds   Homeland Security Actions   Diplomatic Actions
        Military Actions   Financial Actions   Investigative Actions
                            Humanitarian Actions

   State of the Union logo
   President George W. Bush will give his State of the Union Address on
   January 29 at 9 p.m. View the White House's First State of the Union
   Webcast  [square2.gif]  Behind the Scenes
   [square2.gif]  History  [square2.gif]  Trivia  [square2.gif]  Guess the
   Quote  [square2.gif]  Children's Message

   State by State overview of education law. President Signs Landmark
   Education Reforms into Law
   Bipartisan Effort Reaps Historic Freedom and Flexibility for U.S.
   Schools



   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
