http://galileo.jpl.nasa.gov

   Go To Galileo Home Page
   JPL Home Page JPL Home Page - Earth JPL Home Page - Solar System JPL
   Home Page - Stars & Galaxies JPL Home Page - Technology
   Galileo: Journey to Jupiter
   Jupiter Moons Galileo Mission Images Explorations Education News Home
                                                                    Page
   Galileo Bottom Graphic
   Galileo Message Graphic

   spacer

                                   Search
                                 __________
                                  Find It!


   Left Hand Navigation Bar - Sitemap, Archives, About This Site spacer
   spacer
      Feature Story

   Farewell, Io; Galileo Paying Last Visit to a Restless Moon

   Jupiter's Moon Io NASA's Galileo orbiter will dart past Jupiter's moon
   Io on Thursday in the veteran spacecraft's last and closest flyby of
   any of the giant planet's four major moons.
   Full Story

   Click here for Galileo's Farewell to Io Video

                                   redline

   Jupiter's Io Generates Power and Noise, But No Magnetic Field

   Io Image Release A great roar of acoustic waves near the north and
   south poles of Jupiter's moon Io shouts about the power of the volcanic
   moon.

   The wave data, new pictures and other information collected recently by
   NASA's Galileo spacecraft provide insight into what happens above Io's
   surface, at its colorful volcanoes and inside its hot belly. Scientists
   presented the findings Monday at a meeting of the American Geophysical
   Union in San Francisco.

   Full Image Advisory
   Image and Caption Page

                                   redline

   Ocean Inside Jupiter's Moon Callisto May Have Cushioned Big Impact

   Opposite Side of Callisto from Valhalla Impact A recent image from
   NASA's Galileo spacecraft adds evidence to a theory that Callisto, the
   outermost of Jupiter's four large moons, may hold an underground ocean.

   The image shows a part of Callisto's surface directly opposite from the
   Valhalla basin where Callisto was punched by a major collision. The
   opposition point shows no effect from the impact. Points opposite major
   impact features on some similar-size worlds, such as Mercury and
   Earth's Moon, show lumpy terrain attributed to seismic shocks from the
   distant impacts.

   Full Press Release
   Image and Caption

                                   redline

   New Images Catch Jupiter's Moon Io in Action

   Io's Loki in infrared A slumping cliff, migrating eruptions and
   churning lava lakes appear in new images of Jupiter's sizzling moon Io
   from NASA's Galileo spacecraft.

   Full Image Advisory
   View all Four Images

   spacer
   Verticle Red Line

   dot Countdown to Io 33
   dot Jupiter Flyby Website
   dot Galileo Public Events
   dot Subscribe to the Galileo News
   Jupiter: A Planet Revealed
   Download Free RealPlayer
   spacer
   Go to Countdown Page
   spacer

                                  sciLinks

                                 Educators!
    Galileo has been selected as an NSTA/SciLinks web site, a service to
                   connect textbooks with online content.

   spacer
                             Galileo Discovers
   A summary about Galilean discoveries.
   spacer
   Did You Know?
   If you could see Jupiter's magnetic field from Earth, it would appear
   five times as large as the full moon.
   Find out more.
   spacer How To Find Jupiter
   Find Jupiter from
   Your Own Backyard
   spacer
   Open Directory Cool Site Award spacer

   spacer spacer Mission Status

   spacer

                                    redline
     Jupiter | Moons | Mission | Images | Explorations | Education | News |
     Home
     redline
     spacer

     Website Curator: Shannon McConnell
   Send website feedback to the Webmaster.
   Website Credits   NASA Privacy Statement
   Last updated 01/15/02.
   Go to JPL Website Go to NASA Headquarters
