http://jlarc.leg.wa.gov

                         jlarc.jpg (39304 bytes)
   Home List of Reports Reports Summaries Meetings NCSL 2001 Work Plan
   Request for Proposal JLARC Newsletters About JLARC Staff Employment
                            Links What's New?




   Home
   List of Reports
   Reports
   Summaries
   Meetings
   NCSL 2001
   Work Plan
   Request for Proposal
   JLARC Newsletters
   About JLARC
   Staff
   Employment
   Links
   What's New?

                            Washington State Flag


   Check Out "What's New?" at JLARC, today! (see link, above)

                                [ablrule.gif]

   About JLARC JLARC Staff What's New?
   Request for Proposal
   Erratum (added 1/22/02) Strategic Plan List of Reports since 1989
   One-Page Reports Full Length Reports Newsletters/Impacts
   JLARC at NCSL 2001 Employment Opportunities Legislative Guide to
   Performance Measurement
   Washington State Legislature Other Legislative and Washington State
   Sites Other Useful Internet Resources

                                [ablrule.gif]

  For more information and copies of JLARC reports, newsletters, or meeting
  agendas

   Copies of JLARC reports and one-page summaries, newsletters, and
   meeting agendas, are available from JLARC. You may request copies by
   phone, e-mail, or regular mail. To request a copy by e-mail, send a
   message with your name and mailing address to Barbara Neff at JLARC.

    Phone
    (360) 786-5171

    Mail
    Washington State Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee
    506 16th Ave. S.E.
    Olympia WA 98501-2323

   Upon request, JLARC documents are available in alternative formats for
   persons with disabilities.
   Disclaimer
   Neither the State of Washington nor any agency, officer, or employee of
   the State of Washington warrants the accuracy, reliability or
   timeliness of any information in the Public Access System and shall not
   be liable for any losses caused by such reliance on the accuracy,
   reliability or timeliness of such information.  Portions of such
   information may be incorrect or not current.  Any person or entity who
   relies on information obtained from the System does so at his or her
   own risk.
   Privacy Notice Information

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Site Counter



   Washington State Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee Site
   Manager:  C. Deane Campbell
   Please note: Documents marked with this symbol Adobe Acrobat Reader
   Logo are in PDF format. In order to view them, you need Acrobat Reader,
   a free viewer available from AdobeÔ Click here for a free copy of
   Acrobat Reader Key Resource Award Logo
   Links^2Go Key Resource
   Washington State Government Topic
