http://diy.dot.gov


      Do it Yourself logo Image representing the Strength and Honor of
                                  America



    Do It Yourself
     Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
     United States Coast Guard
     Federal Aviation Administration
     RSPA Office of HAZMAT Safety
     RSPA Office of Pipeline Safety
     Federal Railroad Administration
     Maritime Administration
     National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
     Transportation Security Administration

      Payment Options: MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and Visa

                          DiY Authorized Use Policy

                       DOT Privacy Disclaimer & Notice

                            DiY Policy on Cookies

     This Website is approved by Bobby for Accessibility. Click here to
    learn more about Bobby Approval. Bobby Approved (v 3.2) This Website
   has level-A Conformance with World Wide Web Consortium's Accessibility
   Guidelines. Click here to learn more about W3C Guidelines. W3C-WAI Web
                    Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0


                                                          Why diy.dot.gov?
     The Department of Transportation now provides customers the option of
    reaching DOT at their convenience through the Internet. By year's end,
            most DOT functions requiring a payment from the public will be
    available on the Internet. Customers can request products and services
     from DOT and use their credit cards to execute transactions. By using
         the Internet, customers will reduce processing time and eliminate
     burdensome errors. Please check out our frequently asked questions or
                                 contact us directly for more information.
                                 AOL, Netscape, & Internet Explorer Users!
           Federal regulations require that your browser support 128-bit
       encryption to complete payment transactions at this web site. Click
      below to find out your browser version and how you can check if your
                                      browser supports 128-bit encryption.
                      Important Notice for Netscape 6 and Macintosh Users!

                              Check My Browser!

    Having trouble getting past our home page? Click here for a solution.
