http://academy.gsfc.nasa.gov

                              [carved_logo.gif]

                               NASA Academy at
                         Goddard Space Flight Center

                2002 Academy Group Project...(Click Here) NEW

              2002 Academy Application due Jan 31..(Click Here)


                               [meatballt.gif]
     * Jan 2002 Bacterium 1 Workshop
     * 2001 Academy Page
     * 2001 Academy Handbook
     * 2001 RA and Staff Profiles
     * Information on Washington D.C.
     * 1993-2000 Academies
     * NASA Academy Home
     * NASA Home
     * GSFC Home
     * NASA Headquarters Home


                               [meatballt.gif]

      As the scientific flagship of the space agency, Goddard Space Flight
   Center (GSFC) is committed to excellence in scientific investigation,
   in the development and operation of space systems, and in the
   advancement of essential technologies. GSFC is the lead center in
   NASA's Destination Earth program, which is dedicated to understanding
   Earth as a global environmental system. State-of-the-art computational
   sciences and scientific visualization is one of our strengths. In
   addition to supporting most of NASA's low Earth orbiting satellites,
   the Flight Projects team has developed and is currently developing
   hardware and mission planning for all of the Hubble Space Telescope
   (HST) Servicing missions. Researchers at Goddard are exploring the
   components and the origins of galaxies, the nature of the inter-stellar
   medium, and the complexities of our own Sun, primarily on missions
   conducted on GSFC developed, constructed and operated satellites. GSFC
   produces enabling technologies in cryogenics, sensors, robotics, and
   space-borne data systems.

      Located just outside Washington, DC in suburban Maryland, Goddard
   Academy students are well positioned to take advantage of many local
   opportunities. The close proximity to NASA Headquarters gives students
   unequaled access to government and space industry decision makers. Area
   universities serve as host to many space related activities, such as
   the Space Systems Laboratory at the University of Maryland, and the
   Space Telescope Science Institute at the Johns Hopkins University.
   Integral to the summer student laboratory experience will be planned
   visits to other NASA field centers, including Kennedy Space Center,
   NASA Langley Research Center, Wallops Flight Facility and the Goddard
   Institute for Space Studies (located in New York City). If you have
   questions about the Goddard Academy, please contact Dave Rosage at
   (301) 286-0904.




   If you have questions or comments about this site, please contact:
   David Rosage
   Program Manager

                    Other centers the Academy will visit:

                            Kennedy Space Center

                        NASA Langley Research Center

                           Wallops Flight Facility

                     Goddard Institute for Space Studies

                                Other Links:

                              Destination Earth

                               Flight Projects
                               Hubble Project

                                    ISTP

                                Solar Images

                              Goddard Missions

                            UMD Space Systems Lab

                                    STSCI
