http://rrdjazz.nist.gov

   NIST National Center for Neutron Research

   Operating the NIST Center for Neutron Research as a national resource
                              for researchers
           from industry, university, and government agencies.


                               About the NCNR
                               What We Do
                               Science
                               Annual Report
                               Staff


                            Facility Information
                            Schedules
                            Instrumentation
                            CHRNS
                            Instrument Contacts


                       User Information
                       Obtaining Facility Access
                       Obtaining BeamTime
                       Planning Your Experiment
                       Obtaining Financial Assistance
                       Travel & Lodging


                          Neutron Sources
                          Photon Sources
                          NIST Programs at NRC
                          Societies & Organizations


                            NCNR SiteMap
                            NIST Home Page
                            NIST Staff Directory
                            NIST Centennial logo.


                             NEWS FOR NCNR USERS

                            NCNR Seminar Schedule


                  Date:Monday, January 28, 2002 at 2:00 PM
            Title: Correlated Electrons: Missing Spectroscopies
   Speaker: Dr. Zahid Hasan, Department of Physics, Princeton University

               Date: Wednesday, January 30, 2002 at 10:45 AM
      Title: Direct Blind Deconvolution and Levy Probability Densities
   Speaker: Alfred Carasso, Mathematical and Computational Sciences, NIST


                  American Conference on Neutron Scattering
                   (Conference website: www.sns.gov/acns)

   The inaugural American Conference on Neutron Scattering will be held in
      Knoxville, Tennessee, June 23-27, 2002, sponsored by the Neutron
   Scattering Society of America (NSSA) and the Spallation Neutron Source
     - High Flux Isotope Reactor User Group (SHUG). This conference will
    showcase scientific results from neutron science in fields including
    Soft Condensed Matter, Condensed Matter Physics, Biology, Magnetism,
   Materials Science, Chemistry and Chemical Physics, Fundamental Physics,
                   and Source and Instrument Development.

           The deadline for abstract submission is March 25, 2002.

   Nominations for Invited Speakers are requested from all members of the
      neutron scattering community. Use the on-line nomination form at
                www.sns.gov/acns to submit your suggestions.
              The deadline for submissions is January 12, 2002.

                    For other information please contact:

          Rob Briber, Conference General Chair, rbriber@eng.umd.edu
          Julie Borchers, Program Co-chair, julie.borchers@nist.gov
              Paul Butler, Program Co-chair, butlerpd@ornl.gov
            Al Ekkebus, Local Committee Chair, ekkebusae@sns.gov

                           NEXT CALL FOR PROPOSALS

     The next deadline for new user proposals requesting NCNR instrument
   time will be in the spring of 2002. A Call for Proposals will be issued
    in early 2002. If you are interested in submitting a proposal, please
     see the instructions for the last Call for Proposals, but note that
           Program Proposals will not be offered in the next Call.

      The NCNR Program Advisory Committee met on December 6, 2001, and
   allocated instrument time for the 6-month period following March 2002.
       All principal investigators (first names on applicant lists) on
      proposals submitted in response to the last Call should now have
         received letters regarding their proposals. Please contact
   wkamitakahara@nist.gov if you are a PI and have not received a letter.
                                                     NCNR Building Views

    The NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR) is part of the Materials
       Science and Engineering Laboratory at the National Institute of
       Standards and Technology (NIST) in Gaithersburg, Maryland. The
   activities of the NCNR are focused on provision of neutron measurement
                  capabilities to researchers in the U.S.A.

      The NCNR is a national center for neutron beam research, offering
   advanced measurement capabilities for use by all qualified applicants.
    Many of its instruments rely on intense neutron beams of cold neutron
             produced by a liquid hydrogen cold neutron source.

    To review recent articles about the scientific work done at the NCNR,
    please visit http://nvl.nist.gov/pub/nistpubs/jres/106/1/cnt106-1.htm
               Title: Materials Research With Neutrons At NIST

                     Technical inquiries: ncnr@nist.gov
                         Center for Neutron Research
       NIST, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8562, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8562.

             NCNR website comments: webmaster@www.ncnr.nist.gov.

                           General NIST inquiries:
                           Public Inquiries Unit:
                            (301) 975-NIST (6478)
                             TTY (301) 975-8295

                              Privacy Statement
                              Disclaimer | FOIA
       NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration.

                        Last modified 22-January-2002
