http://pages.cidr.nhgri.nih.gov/app-format.html


                                  CIDR ICON
   APPLICATION INFORMATION - FORMAT

                             Home Page Services
                          Location Pricing Schedule


   Application
   Information
   General Information Access Criteria
   Application         Deadlines

                             Project Scheduling

                    INQUIRIES Frequently Asked Questions
                                    Next
   The following items should be provided to the CIDR Access Committee in
   a document not to exceed ten pages (excluding appendices).  Text may be
   single-spaced but the type size must conform to NIH guidelines, i.e.,
   letter height no smaller than 10 point, type density no greater than 15
   characters per inch, and no more than 6 lines within a vertical inch.
   Applications that do not conform to these guidelines will be returned.

   Please address the following items in the order they are listed.
     * Project title
     * Principal investigator(s) name and address (including e-mail
       address for the individual who will serve as the contact point with
       CIDR). Please list the names and affiliations of all major
       co-investigators and collaborators.
     * Abstract
     * Specific aims of the project
     * Previous peer review of the project. Indicate whether the genetic
       components of the project have undergone previous peer review, and
       by whom. Indicate the outcome of the review. If an application is
       currently pending at the NIH, provide details about the study
       section and institute assignment if known.
     * The source of funds for sample collection, phenotypic evaluation of
       study subjects, and/or data analysis. If no new funds are required,
       this should be stated. If funded by the NIH, list the sponsoring
       institute and the dates of support. If the project is not or will
       not be funded by one of the NIH institutes supporting CIDR,
       indicate how genotyping costs will be paid.
     * The approximate number of samples to be genotyped and the projected
       timeline for providing the samples to CIDR. CIDR requires 20 µg of
       DNA per sample.
     * Description of the disease/trait to be mapped, which must be a
       complete outline of the phenotypic evaluation of the study
       subjects, including, where appropriate, specific inclusion and
       exclusion criteria. For example, a copy of a questionnaire to
       collect phenotype information is not a sufficient definition of the
       trait to be mapped.
     * Background information about the disease/trait to be mapped
       including the rationale for carrying out this particular study.
       Describe any unique features about the disease/trait that would
       single out this project for special consideration.
     * Evidence of a genetic component to the disease/trait. While this
       may be obvious with single gene disorders, it is not true for many
       complex traits. The applicant should provide summaries of twin
       studies, segregation analyses, estimates of relative risks, etc.
       that would support the investigator's approach.
     * Description of the plan to manage the large amount of phenotypic
       and genotypic data. Provide specific information about computing
       resources and software, and the training and experience of
       personnel charged with database management.
     * A description of the analysis strategy for the resulting genotypic
       information with a discussion of the issue of power for the study
       including power calculations where appropriate, and choice of
       analytic methods and software. If collaborations are established
       for analytical services with personnel at CIDR or otherwise,
       include letters of collaboration.
     * A brief outline of the plan for the next phase of the project if
       linkage is found. Include specific plans/strategy for isolating the
       locus (loci) and name the individuals respnsible for each step.
       Attach letters of collaboration from these individuals.
     * Assurance that the project has been reviewed for human subjects
       protection by an appropriate Institutional Review Board (IRB).

   The following items may be included as an appendix.
     * CVs (two-page, NIH format) for the key personnel involved in the
       project.
     * Letters of support/commitment from major collaborators and/or
       co-investigators.
     * Pedigree diagrams if appropriate (representative pedigrees used to
       calculate power are especially important to include). If DNA
       samples are available for members of the pedigree, please indicate
       this on the pedigree diagram.
     * Essential reprints or preprints.

   Submit one original application and three complete copies, including
   appendices, to Dr. Jerry Roberts, Scientific Review Administrator and
   Executive Director, CIDR Board of Governors, in the NHGRI Office of
   Scientific Review:

                            Jerry Roberts, Ph.D.
                        National Institutes of Health
                  National Human Genome Research Institute
                          31 Center Drive MSC 2032
                           Building 31, Room B2B37
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-2032
                          Telephone: (301) 402-0838
                             FAX: (301) 435-1580
                         jerry_roberts@nhgri.nih.gov


                                 Home | Next
