http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/facilities/index.html

   Polymer division banner


Research Facilities

   The Polymers Division has several state of the art laboratories and
   facilities which are available for your research needs. Detailed
   information about each facility describing its capabilities, typical
   applications, and availability is provided in the links below. Please
   also note the NIST disclaimer.


X-Ray Reflectivity Facility

   X-ray reflectivity is a non-destructive technique for characterizing
   surfaces of solids and liquids in terms of their roughness and electron
   density depth profile. A depth up to micrometers can be resolved with a
   resolution less than one nanometer. This capability makes it an ideal
   tool for characterizing thin films.

X-Ray Reflectivity Facility

   bullet More information on X-Ray Reflectivity Facility


Neutron Reflectivity Facility

   The polymers division at NIST utilizes neutron reflection (NR) for
   probing a wide range of surface and interfacial problems in polymer
   science.
   bullet More information on Neutron Reflectivity Facility


Small Angle Neutron Scattering Facility

   The US's leading neutron scattering facility is maintained by the NIST
   Center for Neutron Research. Neutron scattering is used to probe
   molecular and microstructural features of polymers and other materials.
   Within the Facility there is an 8 m beam line that is particularly
   useful for studies of polymers.
   bullet More information on Small Angle Neutron Scattering Facility


Brookhaven Small Angle X-Ray Scattering Facility

   NIST has joined four industrial laboratories in a Participating
   Research Team (PRT) for the Advanced Polymer Beamline at Brookhaven
   National Laboratory. This is the only dedicated polymer synchrotron
   beamline in US.

Brookhaven Small Angle X-Ray Scattering Facility

   bullet More information on Brookhaven Facility


MALDI Mass Spectrometer

   The Mass Spectrometry Facility is used in the measurement of molecular
   mass and molecular mass distribution of synthetic polymers, as well as
   in studies of the molecular architecture of prepolymers and copolymers.
   MALDI Mass Spectrometer
   bullet More information on MALDI Mass Spectrometer


Fiber-Matrix Interface Strength Facility

   NIST has three machines used to measure and assess the interfacial
   shear properties between fibers and polymeric matrices. The first is an
   automated single fiber fragmentation testing (SFFT) machine. The second
   is a manual sfft machine. The third is a microdrop shear apparatus.

Fiber-Matrix Interface Strength Facility

   bullet More information on Fiber-Matrix Interface Strength Facility


Combinatorial Method

   Novel combinatorial methods for polymer "library" design and
   characterization have been developed in the Polymers Division. These
   include gradient flow coating with elevated temperature control,
   automated interferometric mapping of film thickness and refractive
   index, composition gradient library preparation, UV and wet etch for
   gradient surface hydrophobicity modification of inorganic and polymer
   surfaces, infrared spectroscopic composition mapping, temperature
   gradient processing stage, automated optical reflection and
   transmission microscopy with polarization and process control
   programming, automated multi-solvent contact angle instrument, high
   throughput opto-adhesion methodology, and state of the art on-line data
   analysis tools for image and pattern processing.
   bullet More information on Combinatorial methods


Optical Coherence Tomography Facility

   Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a powerful tool for
   non-destructive, bulk volumetric imaging of synthetic materials. With
   this technique, information about features with a size of 10 mm and
   above is obtained. A requirement for this type of tomography is that
   the material be transparent to near infrared light, making many polymer
   systems excellent candidates.
   bullet More information on Optical Coherence Tomography Facility


Extrusion Visualization Facility

   An instrumented slit die located at the exit of a twin screw extruder
   allows in-situ optical measurements of blend morphology and critical
   processing parameters. The combination of in-line optical microscopy
   and light scattering probes a size range from 0.1 microns to 100
   microns. The facility has been used for the study of polymer blends,
   reactive blends, in-situ fiber formation and slippage. Extrusion
   Visualization Facility
   bullet More information on Extrusion Visualization Facility


Mercury Dilatometer Facility

   The Mercury Dilatometer Facility is used for the kinetic measurement of
   volumetric changes in polymers. It is ideal for dynamically determining
   the rate and time dependence of shrinkage or expansion in polymetric
   materials subjected to chemical or photo polymerization.


   Mercury Dilatometer Facility
   bullet More information on Mercury Dilatometer Facility



   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division


   Research Facilities

   bullet X-Ray Reflectivity
   bullet Neutron Reflectivity
   bullet Small Angle Neutron Scattering

   bullet Brookhaven Small Angle X-Ray Scattering

   bullet MALDI Mass Spectrometry
   bullet Fiber-Matrix Interface Strength

   bullet Combinatorial Methods
   bullet Optical Coherence Tomography

   bullet Extrusion Visualization
   bullet Mercury Dilatometer
