http://lsdiv.lanl.gov/research.htm

                  [ISMAP:bar-la3.gif]-[USEMAP:bar-la3.gif]

                           Life Sciences Division

                              Research Projects

   Functional Genomics Technology Development (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Michael R. Altherr

   Efforts in this area were, in part, an evolution of an LDRD funded
   effort to determine the role of the telomere on the severity of birth
   defects. In that effort, we identified a large segment of the human
   genome that had been completely sequenced; deletion of which resulted
   in a severe human birth defect. The specific aims of this project are
   three-fold: 1) to provide rapid confirmation of gene expression of
   hypothetical gene sequences, 2) to rapidly generate full length cDNA
   sequence for the putative gene, and 3) to generate expression competent
   clones to produce peptides for additional studies of the putative gene
   product. The problem is one common to all genomic sequencing efforts.
   We found ourselves with a wealth of genomic sequence. The sequence
   suggested that a variety of genes might be contained in the genomic
   segment under investigation and many genomic researchers regard these
   putative genes as a fait accompli. However, biological studies require
   much substantive information rather than a simplistic similarity search
   to demonstrate the physiological role of the gene in vivo.
   Consequently, we chose to model our efforts using the putative coding
   sequences identified in the Wolf Hirschhorn Syndrome (WHS) critical
   region. We have focused our efforts by acquiring full length cDNA
   sequence, implementing a more rapid and efficient cDNA sequencing
   technique dubbed simultaneous shot gun sequencing and exploring the
   expressing peptides encoded by the theoretical gene products. The
   ultimate goal of these efforts would be to provide a pipeline of
   information and reagents that starts with genomic sequence and feeds
   into real biological studies.

   Cell Cycle Checkpoints and Genomic Stability (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: E. Morton Bradbury, LS-DO

   Co-Investigators: Scott R. Peterson, Project Leader, LS-4; Joseph A.
   D'Anna, Jr., LS-4; and Harry A. Crissman

   This project investigates cellular responses to DNA damage caused by
   ionizing radiation. One of the specific aims of our research is to
   identify the biochemical pathway(s) that lead to the cessation of
   DNA-synthesis in response to DNA damage. We are currently focusing our
   efforts on protein kinases and protein phosphatases that are regulated
   in response to DNA damage. In addition, we are also performing
   experiments designed to characterize the role of chromatin modification
   enzymes in cellular responses to DNA damage. This includes the
   investigation of how DNA repair and DNA damage sensing proteins
   interact with DNA molecules that are packaged into chromatin. The
   long-term goals of this project are to develop an integrated
   understanding of the relationships among cellular DNA-damage response
   pathways that lead to the regulation of the assembly of molecular
   complexes involved in DNA repair and the regulation cell cycle
   progression. This project relies on advanced biochemical, molecular
   biological, flow cytometric, and imaging techniques.

   Function and Structure of Mammalian DNA Repair Proteins (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: David J-C. Chen, LS-6

   Co-Investigators: Robert Cary, LS-6; Mark A. MacInnes, LS-6; Richard T.
   Okinaka, LS-6; Min S. Park, LS-8; and Scott Peterson, LS-4

   When mammalian cells are exposed to environmental agents that damage
   cellular DNA a series of complex biochemical reactions are initiated to
   ensure that the fidelity of the genetic material is maintained.
   Mechanisms that have evolved to detect DNA damage and induce cell cycle
   checkpoints function in parallel with the biochemical machinery that
   repairs the damaged DNA. While many of the molecular components that
   function in these pathways have been identified, how their activities
   are coordinated is poorly understood. The research in this project is
   focused on the functional and structural characterization of known
   DNA-repair proteins and on the identification of novel proteins
   involved in the molecular pathways that recognize and repair damaged
   DNA. Understanding how DNA damage is detected and subsequently repaired
   in mammalian cells will foster a better understanding of the risks
   associated with exposure to ionizing radiation and other agents that
   cause DNA damage, a goal that is central to the Department of Energy's
   research mission. This project includes the National Flow Cytometry
   Resource (NFCR) for the application of image analysis tools to cell and
   molecular problems of interest to OBER researchers in the Life Sciences
   Division.

   Genomic Sequencing (DOE)

   Principal Investigators: Norman A. Doggett, LS-3 and CHGS; Darrell
   Ricke, LS-3; and Larry L. Deaven, LS-3 and CHGS

   We have recently begun full genomic sequencing of a 3.0 megabases (Mb)
   cosmid/P1 contig of the human chromosome region in 16p13.3 extending
   from the polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1) locus to the CREB binding
   protein (CREBBP) locus [responsible for Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome and
   implicated in acute myeloid leukemia's associated with translocations
   t(8;16)(p11;p13.3) and t(11;16)(q23;p13.3)]. This contig encompasses
   the recently cloned Familial Mediterranean Fever gene and the syntenic
   breakpoint between mouse chromosomes 16 and 17. The average overlap
   between clones in the contig is 25%. Sample sequencing of this region
   has revealed that it is gene rich and G+C rich (>50% G+C), with the
   gene density approaching one gene/10 kilobases (kb) in some stretches.
   These observations are consistent with the previously reported
   cytogenetic designation of 16p13.3 as a G+C rich "T" band. Our strategy
   for sequencing involves nebulization to randomly break DNA, size
   selection of 3 kb fragments, double adapter cloning into bluescript KS+
   plasmid, and sequencing of both ends to 6X random sequencing coverage.
   Sequencing reactions are currently 50% Big dye terminators (ABI) and
   50% Energy transfer dye primers (Amersham). Assembly of sequence
   contigs is constrained by the inherent relationship of the end
   sequences being approximately 3 kb apart. Closure and finishing is
   achieved by a combination of primer walking, longer reads, and
   alternate chemistry reactions. To date we have finished nearly 500,000
   basepairs (bp) of the sequence in this region and have an average
   contig size of approximately 100 kb. Sequence analysis and annotation
   is semi-automated with use of the SCAN program (see "SCAN 1.0 _
   Sequence Comparison Analysis Software", p. 18). The maximum G+C content
   found in a finished clone is 57%. Alu content has also been high with
   up to 30 Alu's in a finished cosmid. Currently, 1.3 Mb of clones are at
   various stages in the shotgun phase of sequencing and 170 kb of clones
   are in finishing. Our goals are to complete 2.84 Mb by October 1, 1998.

   Physical Mapping (DOE)

   Principal Investigators: Norman A. Doggett, LS-3 and CHGS and Jon
   Longmire, LS-3

   The LANL Center for Human Genome Studies has the major responsibility
   in the Joint Genome Institute in the area of physical mapping. These
   physical mapping efforts are divided into three major tasks: 1)
   development of resources for physical mapping, 2) generation of new
   sequence-ready physical maps, and 3) restriction mapping of previously
   generated sequence-tagged sites (STS) content bacterial artificial
   chromosome (BAC) contigs.

   In the area of resource development, LANL is pooling 12X of a diploid
   human genomic BAC library (RPCI-11) consisting of 221,184 clones, 165
   kilobase (kb) average insert size, to make this library suitable for
   PCR-based screening with STS markers. We have developed a novel and
   highly efficient single tier pooling approach which will enable the
   screening of the 12X library in a single screen of 376 PCR reactions,
   followed by confirmatory reactions of the predicted positive BAC
   clones. Prior to pooling of the library, 384 well plates are translated
   to 96 well plates. Pooling of the library is performed in increments of
   a fourth at a time: each a 3X coverage with 55,296 clones. Ninety-four
   pools are made from each fourth of the library. There are two sets of
   plate pools (11 pools each), two sets of row pools (12 pools each), two
   sets of column pools (12 pools each), and one set of left and right
   diagonal pools (12 pools each). Each of these eight sets of pools is
   made from a plate-rearranged 24x24 array of 96-well microtitre dishes.
   Thus, most pools contain 4,608 clones. The plate rearrangements were
   chosen to minimize the numbers of co-incidences of pairs of clones in
   pools. For the row, column, and diagonal pools, the "lines" of clones
   from the array are combined to make the final 12 pools, with no pool
   containing more than one line incident on any plate. Pool construction
   is accomplished, straightforwardly, with custom manifolds that have
   been designed to work on the Robbins Hydra. The performance of the
   pooling design, in the presence of experimental errors, was simulated
   using the Markov chain Monte Carlo procedure to rank the candidate
   positives, comparing favorably with a random 8-sets pooling design
   (Knill et al., J. Comp. Biol., 3, 395-406 (1996), and Bruno et al.,
   Genomics, 26, 21-30 (1995)). These library pools will be used at the
   LANL center for large scale screening for new map production to meet
   the sequencing needs of the Joint Genome Institute. DNA pools will also
   be supplied to the LBNL and LLNL centers to permit screening at these
   sites as well. The LANL Center has also recently upgraded its
   high-density gridding robot to accommodate 384 pin tools for gridding
   directly out of 384 well microtiter plates. We will use this robot to
   produce high-density membranes of the 12X BAC library for use and LANL
   and the other Centers in the JGI for hybridization based screening of
   this library. The creation at LANL of both DNA pools for PCR based
   screening and high-density membranes for hybridization based screening
   provides complete and complementary resources to insure efficient map
   production to meet the JGI sequencing needs.

   For FY98 we are generating 11 million base pairs (Mb) of new
   sequence-ready maps from the chromosome region 16p13.3 to 16p13.12. For
   FY99 we have committed to generate 42 Mb of new sequence-ready maps
   from the chromosome region 16q12.1 to q24.3. Since we have had to start
   this effort before the BAC library pools were completed we developed a
   strategy that would initially rely on hybridization based screening of
   the high-density BAC grids. As a starting point, we have a previously
   constructed integrated physical map of human chromosome 16 that
   consists of STSs, yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones and small
   cosmid contigs (Doggett et. al, Nature 377:Suppl:335-365, 1995). We are
   converting this to a new sequence-ready BAC map that will be more
   efficient for large scale sequencing. The YAC/STS component of the
   integrated map consists of 900 Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisms Humain
   (CEPH) megaYACs, and 300 flow-sorted 16-specific miniYACs that are
   localized to and ordered within somatic cell hybrid breakpoint
   intervals with 1150 STSs. This YAC/STS map provides nearly complete
   coverage of the euchromatic arms of the chromosome and provides STS
   markers on average every 78 kb. The integrated map also includes 470
   genes/ESTs/exons, 400 genetic markers, and 530 cosmid contigs (110 kb
   average size, and covering 60% of the chromosome). To create large
   sequenceable targets of this chromosome we are using a systematic
   approach to screen high density BAC filters with evenly spaced probes.
   Probes are either pooled overlapping oligonucleotides ("overgos",
   method developed by John McPherson, Washington University) or
   Alu-bubble PCR products of YACs. In order to select evenly spaced
   probes we first identified all available sequences in the integrated
   map. These include sequences from genes, ESTs, STSs, and cosmid end
   sequences. Since the integrated map was constructed on a physical scale
   we are able to select for sequences at a spacing of 50 kb - 100 kb when
   these were available. We then used BLAST software to identify 36 bp
   unique fragments of DNA for overgo probes. In intervals where sequence
   data is not available at distances of greater than 100 kb we are using
   Alu-bubble PCR products of YACs. YACs are selected which show no
   evidence of chimerism based on a screening of the Whithead and Genethon
   databases. Up to 53 overgos have been pooled in a single hybridization
   against a 12X coverage human BAC library (RPCI-11). Positive BACs that
   are identified from the pooled overgos are rearrayed on membranes and
   hybridized with either two-dimensional or three-dimensional subpools of
   overgos to determine which BAC clones are positive for individual
   overgos. Probe-content BAC contigs are constructed in this manner. BAC
   contigs are then restriction mapped to select the optimal tiling sets
   for sequencing. We have begun construction of the 11 Mb region of the p
   arm of chromosome 16 and will have this completed in the next several
   months.

   We have also developed large-scale methods for efficient restriction
   mapping of BAC contigs. The methods rely on 96 well BAC DNA preps and
   96 well restriction digestion. Digests are loaded onto agarose gels and
   electrophoresed. Gel images are captured using a CCD camera and bands
   are sized using Bioimage software. Contig assembly is accomplished with
   GRAM, a map assembly program written at LANL. The LANL center is
   responsible for generating the restriction maps for the LANL and LBNL
   generated contigs. For FY98 we are constructing 32 Mb of restriction
   maps from LBNL BAC contigs and 11 Mb of restriction maps from LANL BAC
   contigs, for FY99 we are constructing 36 Mb of restriction maps from
   LBNL BAC contigs and 42 Mb of restriction maps from LANL BAC contigs.

   Biological Sorption and Transport (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Larry Hersman, LS-7

   The purpose of this research is to determine the effects of the
   indigenous microbial population on the transport of radioactive wastes
   away from the proposed site of the nation's high-level nuclear
   repository at Yucca Mountain, NV. The major research objective is to
   investigate the various mechanisms used by microorganisms that affect
   the transport of radioactive wastes, including chelation, sorption, pH
   and redox changes, and colloidal effects. A second objective is to
   determine the numbers, identity, metabolic activity, and diversity of
   the indigenous microbial population at the Exploratory Study Facility
   (ESF) at Yucca Mountain. Two areas under investigation are: 1)
   comparison of microbial communities in 36Cl fast path locations to
   non-fast path environments, and 2) comparison of wet locations to dryer
   locations. Samples are collected from selected regions within the ESF,
   returned to the laboratory, and analyzed for microbial activity.
   Methods used to determine microbial activity include 1) direct
   microscopic analysis using fluorescent staining techniques, 2) ^14C
   evolution of labeled substrates, 3) standard dilution/plate counts, and
   4) analysis of rRNA using both sequences and probes. Chelation studies
   allow us to evaluate one of the more potential mechanisms of microbial
   influenced transport of radioactive waste elements. Columns are packed
   aseptically with crushed tuff collected from the ESF. Unsaturated flow
   conditions are established using bromide tracers. Once equilibrium
   conditions have been established, chelated and unchelated plutonium and
   neptunium are introduced in separate columns. Fractions are collected
   and analyzed for these actinide elements using either liquid
   scintillation techniques or Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic
   Adsorption spectroscopy (ICP-AA). Chelated actinide column studies data
   will allow us to model the more dominant microbial mechanisms for the
   transport of radioactive wastes. In addition, using two different
   microbial mechanisms, we are modeling the effects of microorganisms on
   the transport of actinide elements. These simulations are currently
   being performed using data collected previously during the Biological
   Sorption and Transport task experimentation. The first simulation
   determines the effect of microbial chelation. Using this information,
   plus data on the total numbers of microorganisms in the ESF, we believe
   that it is possible to approximate the maximum potential for chelated
   actinide transport. The second simulation addresses transport as
   affected by sorption to microorganisms. ^239Pu(IV) is known to sorb to
   microbial cells with formation constant approaching 104 times greater
   than sorption to crushed tuff. Based on our experiments in the ESF we
   will be able to extrapolate the total attached number, and the total
   mobile number, of microorganisms. This distribution will then be used
   to predict the distribution of actinides attached to microbial cells,
   and how this distribution affects overall transport. The computer model
   we are using is the TRAMPP code. TRAMPP (a derivative of TRACR3D and
   its Yucca Mountain QA'ed version TRACRN) solves conservation equations
   for water and air flow under a variety of conditions, including fully
   saturated and partially saturated soils and rock. It also solves
   transport equations for N interacting chemical/biological species.
   Transport mechanisms include advection, diffusion, dispersion, sorption
   and reaction. Microbial metabolic processes are simulated with Monod
   kinetic formulations. Both equilibrium and rate-limited sorption models
   are included.

   Microbial Dissolution of Iron Oxides (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Larry Hersman, LS-7

   The purpose of this research project is to describe the dissolution
   processes used by aerobic microorganisms to acquire iron (Fe) from Fe
   oxides. The objective of the research is to determine if microorganisms
   use either ligand promoted, reductive, or proton promoted dissolution
   processes (or a combination of the three) to acquire Fe. This work is
   being performed in collaboration with Dr. Patricia Maurice (Kent State
   University) and Dr. Garrison Sposito (University of California,
   Berkeley). Progress has been made in several areas during the past
   year. First, growth curves for the Pseudomonas sp. on ferrihydrite,
   goethite, and hematite have been completed. Growth on goethite and
   hematite were very similar. However, growth on ferrihydrite was much
   greater than on either goethite or hematite. For all of these
   experiments, the growth on the iron oxide does not equal growth on
   FeEDTA, suggesting that the iron (or other nutrient) is limiting in the
   reaction vessels. It is possible that Fe, O[2], or the energy source
   (succinate) becomes limiting as the experiment progresses. Each of
   these possibilities is currently under investigation. Growth on the Fe
   oxides appears to correlate with surface area, as well as to other
   factors. For example, as the concentration of the Fe oxide is
   increased, microbial growth does not initiate until an excess of Fe
   surfaces are provided. Furthermore, this initiation of growth varies
   between the goethite and hematite and among the various preparations of
   each of the oxides themselves. Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) analysis
   has demonstrated clearly that the Pseudomonas sp. is attaching to only
   a few of the total number of mineral particles available. This confirms
   our macroscopic observations that few of the Fe oxide agglomerates
   (true for all of the Fe oxides tested) show microbial growth.
   Obviously, the microorganisms are successfully, and perhaps
   selectively, colonizing a small fraction to the total particles
   present. Finally, we have continued to develop procedures to produce
   siderophore in the quantities necessary to begin ligand promoted Fe
   oxide dissolution experiments. We anticipate being able to produce 10
   to 15 mg of highly purified siderophore per month. Work during the
   Summer '98 will consist of experiments using flow cells and specular
   hematite. Experiments on surface attachment of desferal will continue
   and include dissolution experiments using the siderophore produced by
   the Pseudomonas sp. We also propose to initiate collaborations with Dr.
   Satish Myneni at LBNL in the application of soft X-ray analysis
   (related to XANES) to determine if Fe(II) is present (and as a product)
   at the mineral surface during dissolution.

   Detecting Strain-Specific Differences and Determining Regional Origin
   of Microbial Strains Using AFLP's, PCR and DNA Sequencing (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

   The goal of the program is to develop Amplified Fragment Length
   Polymorphism (AFLP) profiles for a large number of bacterial species
   including pathogens, beneficial and common environmental species, then
   use this information to analyze medical, veterinary, forensic and
   environmental samples to determine their microbial content. Generation
   of AFLP profiles is now routine and we have archived profiles for a
   large number of Bacillus species and a smaller number of pathogens
   including B. anthracis, Y. pestis (the causative organism of plague),
   M. tuberculosis, and B. thuringiensis (an insect pathogen used as a
   pesticide). We are now focusing on development of an electronic method
   of reading and comparing AFLP profiles in the database to those
   generated from unknown samples. The goal of the project is to generate
   a profile, compare it electronically to all other profiles previously
   archived, and, by this comparison, determine the identity and
   geographic origin of the unknown. Once the archive is populated with a
   sufficient number of AFLP profiles, it should be possible to rapidly
   characterize microbes from medical, forensic and environmental samples.

   Fluorescence in situ Hybridization for the Study of Microorganisms in
   the Environment (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Cheryl R. Kuske, LS-7

   Co-Investigator: Susan M. Barns, LS-7

   Although microbes are arguably the most numerous and important
   organisms in the biosphere, their small size and complex natures have
   severely limited our understanding of them. Traditionally,
   microbiologists have relied on laboratory cultivation of isolated
   species, or have studied bulk processes such as carbon and nitrogen
   uptake, in order to identify the activities of organisms in the
   environment. However, these approaches have severe limitations, and
   have provided only the most superficial information on the diversity
   and activities of microbes in nature. DNA sequence-based techniques can
   allow more direct study of the identity and activity of microbial cells
   and populations in their environments. We are applying in situ
   hybridization using ribosomal RNA-targeted fluorescent probes to
   characterize microbial communities in sediments and soils. This allows
   quantitation of cells as well as determination of shape, location, and
   physical interactions with other cells and soil particles. We have
   developed fluorescent oligonucleotide probes from ribosomal RNA genes
   to specifically identify novel, non-cultivable bacterial groups and a
   large new bacterial kingdom. We will be using these to characterize the
   abundance and relative activity of these organisms in environmental
   samples. We plan to combine use of these fluorescent probes with cell
   extraction techniques to isolate bacterial populations from soils.
   Tagged cells sorted using flow cytometry will allow collection of
   labeled cells for further study. By combining these approaches, we hope
   to gain a better understanding of the complex and important activities
   of the natural microbial world.

   Molecular Analysis of Soil Microbial Communities Adjusting to Climate
   Change (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Cheryl R. Kuske, LS-7

   The microorganisms that inhabit soils are a critical component of all
   terrestrial ecosystems. Studying microorganism populations in their
   natural environment has been challenging because of their microscopic
   size, their vast diversity, and their rapid responses to perturbation.
   The goal of this work is to develop and implement molecular techniques
   to provide rapid assessment of microbial communities in natural
   environments. A method is being developed to rapidly fingerprint soil
   microbial communities for comparative analysis of phylogenetic and
   functional bacterial populations. Combining analysis of the soil
   microbial communities with investigations of plant physiology and other
   above-ground processes at field sites will provide a more complete
   picture of important events in ecosystem adjustment to climate change.

   The community fingerprint analysis is rapid, sensitive, and can easily
   be applied to many samples. It thus allows us to sample population
   dynamics in a replicated, statistically relevant manner, and to
   identify and document population changes under different environmental
   conditions over time. A small (0.5 g) sample usually provides enough
   DNA for many comparative analyses, and our goal is to document changes
   in both phylogenetic groups and specific functional populations
   simultaneously from a single sample. Using DNA isolated from the total
   microbial community and PCR assays, we can potentially amplify a
   variety of marker genes that represent broad or specific phylogenetic
   or functional groups for comparative analysis. Initial development of
   the method was conducted using the 16S ribosomal RNA gene to determine
   bacterial diversity and heterogeneity in spatially separated samples.
   Genes/gene families under investigation that represent populations with
   more specific metabolic functions are those encoding DNA gyrase enzyme
   and major sigma factors (all bacteria), membrane proteins involved in
   carbohydrate transport (heterotrophs) and ion transport (autotrophs),
   and enzymes invalid in N-fixation and salt tolerance.

   Low-Dose Ionizing Radiations, Reactive Oxygen Species, and Genomic
   Instability (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Bruce E. Lehnert, LS-4

   Co-Investigator: Edwin H. Goodwin, LS-4

   This project investigates cell cycle responses to ionizing radiations
   and reactive oxygen species (ROS), radiation- and ROS-induced
   alterations in gene expression, and the genetic effects of ROS and
   low-dose ionizing radiations. The specific aims of the project are: 1)
   to elucidate mechanisms by which low- and high-linear energy transfer
   ionizing radiations and ROS differentially affect the cell cycle of
   normal human lung cells, 2) to determine if cell cycle alterations
   induced by these stresses may be overcome in a manner favoring the
   heritability of DNA damage, 3) to understand the role radiation- and
   ROS-induced genes may play in genomic instability, and 4) to
   investigate the role(s) alpha a-particle induced extracellular factors
   play in mediating genetic alterations and genomic instability. The
   overall strategic direction of the project, accordingly, is to clarify
   how exposures to ionizing radiations and ROS enhance cancer risk.
   Results from this project expectedly will provide explanations about
   how epigenetic and genomic alterations caused by low- and high-linear
   energy transfer (LET) ionizing radiations and ROS may contribute to
   carcinogenesis. Moreover, our results concerning ROS will expand our
   understanding of the roles ROS may play in the development of
   radon/radon progeny-associated lung cancer in a background of exposure
   to environmental particles. The project relies on a team of
   collaborating scientists, and it utilizes advanced cellular, molecular,
   and biochemical approaches.

   Pooling of a BAC Library (DOE)

   Team Leader: Jonathan L. Longmire, LS-3

   As part of our Human Genome effort, we have developed a single tier
   pooling approach which will enable the screening of a 24X diploid human
   genomic bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of 442,368 clones
   in a single screen of 752 PCR reactions, followed by confirmatory
   reactions of the predicted positive BAC clones. The pooling scheme was
   designed to minimize the number of screening reactions required to
   identify positive clones within such a large library. Pool construction
   is being accomplished using manifolds designed to work on the Robbins
   Hydra, a semiautomated instrument that allows pipetting of clones from
   96-well plates. The final pools will serve as a resource for obtaining
   clones for sequencing within the DOE Joint Genome Institute.

   Health Effects of Beryllium (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Babetta L. Marrone, LS-5

   This project is based on the need for improvements in the reliability
   of the lymphocyte proliferation test (LPT). The LPT is used as a
   routine part of medical surveillance of all beryllium workers in the
   DOE complex. The LPT is performed currently using the conventional
   method that measures ^3H-thymidine incorporation into the newly
   synthesized DNA of proliferating cells in the presence of beryllium.
   Our aim is to improve the predictive value of the test by increasing
   the reliability of the assay through the application of new flow
   cytometric methods for measurement of cell proliferation and
   stimulation index; adding information about the beryllium-responding
   cell subset by concurrent immunophenotyping; and optimization of the
   flow cytometry-based LPT (FLPT). A flow cytometry assay for cell
   proliferation in response to beryllium challenge of whole blood in
   vitro has been developed and applied to the detection of sensitivity in
   over 100 individuals, chosen for their beryllium exposure history and
   previous beryllium sensitivity status. The FLPT continues to be used as
   part of the Los Alamos National Laboratory beryllium worker medical
   surveillance program in 1998.

   Bioinformational Thrust (DOE)

   Principal Investigators: Richard T. Okinaka, LS-6; Cheryl R. Kuske,
   LS-7; and Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

   DOE Office of Nonproliferation and National Security (NN), as part of
   its Chemical-Biological weapons Non-Proliferation (CBNP) program, is
   expanding a bioinformational resource that collects, synthesizes, and
   analyzes molecular information on potential biowarfare agents. Primary
   tasks within the Life Sciences Division for FY97-98 have been 1) the
   sequencing and assembly of the two virulence plasmids (pX01 and pX02)
   of the pathogen Bacillus anthracis (see "The Plasmids of Bacillus
   anthracis", p. 16), 2) the development of a semi-automated Amplified
   Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) protocol to scan for global pattern
   changes in the genomes of B. anthracis, Y. pestis, and their nearest
   neighbors, and 3) the analysis of conserved domains from virulence
   genes between species and environmental samples. These studies are
   aimed at developing protocols that allow differentiation of pathogenic
   species and their nearest neighbors and the distinguishing of strains
   within the same species.

   Human Genomic Sequence Finishing (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Darrell O. Ricke, LS-3

   The major goal of this project is to meet the LANL contributions to the
   DOE Joint Genome Institute (JGI) FY98 finished genomic sequencing
   goals. In FY98, LANL Center for Human Genome Studies (CHGS) will
   contribute 2.84 megabases (Mb) towards the JGI sequence goals with 2.5
   Mb submitted to GenBank. Previously, the CHGS had only completed the
   224 kb 7q telomere human genomic sequence. The goal for FY98 represents
   a ten-fold increase in yearly finished sequence production. The
   finishing strategy being used involves 1) generating missing sequences
   such that both ends of plasmid subclones have been sequenced, 2)
   generating very long sequences (up to 800 base pairs) to improve
   sequence quality, 3) primer walking for (a) single stranded regions,
   (b) assembly problem areas (generally due to repetitive sequences), and
   (c) physical gaps, and 4) transposon sequencing of very long tandem
   repeats (> 1 kb in length). A monthly ramp plan for how much sequence
   needed to be completed each month to insure that this goal was met. All
   of the sequences being generated meet the JGI quality standard of
   greater than 95% of all base pairs with a consensus quality of greater
   than or equal to a Phrap score of 40. As of March 1998, the Sequence
   Finishing project is ahead of schedule.

   Sequence Analysis, Annotation, and Public Submission (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Darrell O. Ricke, LS-3

   The major goal of this project is to provide high quality sequence
   annotation for DOE Joint Genome Institute and LANL Center for Human
   Genome Studies sequences. In the last five months, over 3 megabases
   (Mb) of finished human genomic sequence has been annotated and
   submitted to GenBank. In FY98, 12.5 Mb of unique human genomic sequence
   is expected to be processed and submitted to GenBank by this project.
   This project has developed the high throughput sequence analysis and
   annotation tool, Sequence Comparison Analysis (SCAN) (see "SCAN 1.0 _
   Sequence Comparison Analysis Software", p. 18), for high throughput
   sequence analysis and annotation. Examples of sequence data processed
   by this project are available at http://www.chgs.lanl.gov or see
   GenBank accession numbers AC003676-7, AC003951, AC003953-5, AC003959,
   AC003965-6, AC004034-43, AC004219-20, AC004224-7, and AC004232-7.

   Neutron Studies (DOE)

   Principal Investigator: Benno P. Schoenborn, LS-DOT

   The design of a neutron protein crystallographic station has been
   completed. This protein crystallography station at the Manuel Lujan,
   Jr. Neutron Scattering Center (MLNSC) will use focusing optics and
   choppers to produce the desired neutron pulse profile at the crystal.
   The concept of using such focusing devices based on multi-layer
   technology has already been tested for vertical and horizontal
   focusing; now the concept must be tested for toroidal geometry in order
   to use all the neutrons acceptable by the protein crystal. Measurements
   have shown that the large protein crystals used for neutron diffraction
   experiments have a mosaic width of 0.1 to 0.3^o. Focusing within these
   limits will produce significant gains. However, a major component of
   any new data collection strategy is the use of very large neutron
   detectors. In order to increase flux a partially coupled high intensity
   moderator will be used.

   The proposed station will use choppers to define the wavelength band
   used. The first chopper will open the beam after dissipation of the
   initial pulse, with its high gamma ray and fast neutron background.
   This will protect the sample and the detector from the initial
   radiation burst. The second chopper will prevent frame overlap and
   select the long wavelength edge. The wavelength band desired for
   particular experiment can be chosen easily by synchronizing the
   choppers with the pulse structure of the accelerator. A large
   cylindrical position-sensitive detector cover with an arc of 1200 with
   a 17 mm height is planned, with a resolution of 1.3 mm and a counting
   rate exceeding 106 counts/second.

   Station Characteristics

            Unit cell size                    up to 150 Å
            Crystal d spacing (maximum range) 1 to 75 Å
            Sample size                       1 to 3 mm
            Wavelength shaping                T0 and T1 choppers
            Wavelength range                  1 to 5 Å
            Flight path length                16 m
            Sample-to-detector distance       700 mm
            Maximum beam size                 6 mm
            Detector, postion sensitive       120 deg cylinder
            170 mm height
            1.2 mm resolution
            8 sectors
            Counting Rate                     >106 n/sec

     DOE/OBER has committed funds of $4.3M to support the fabrication of
   this beam line at the Los Alamos Neutron Scattering Center (LANSCE) to
                     be completed in calendar year 2000.

            Multifrequency Phase/Modulation Flow Cytometer (DOE)

               Principal Investigator: John A. Steinkamp, LS-5

          The objective of this project is to develop an advanced,
       multi-frequency (harmonic), laser-based measurement system for
      quantifying multiple excited-state lifetimes by frequency-domain
    methods on fluorochrome-labeled cells and subcellular components. The
    specific aims are: 1) to develop a state of the art frequency-domain
    flow cytometer for measuring multiple fluorescence lifetimes by phase
     shift and amplitude demodulation using the multi-harmonic frequency
     content of pulsed laser-excitation sources, 2) to characterize the
    instrument in terms of measurement sensitivity, precision, accuracy,
    and dynamic range, 3) to evaluate the instrument's ability to measure
   lifetimes directly and separate signals from heterogeneous fluorescence
   based on differences in lifetimes, 4) to utilize this new technology as
        a spectroscopic measurement tool to study the interaction of
   fluorochromes with cells, in the context of cellular responses induced
    by environmental insults associated with energy production, and 5) to
     improve and further advance the technology based on results of the
      initial biological studies. This new measurement technology will
        increase the range of fluorescent markers that can be used in
    multi-labeling studies, reduce or eliminate background interferences
    caused by intrinsic cellular autofluorescence, unbound/free dye, and
   Raman and Raleigh scatter, and thus enhance measurement sensitivity to
      yield more accurate and more comprehensive results. In addition,
    excited-state lifetimes will be used as spectroscopic probes to study
   the interaction of fluorescent markers with their targets, each other,
    and the surrounding environment, and thereby expand the researchers'
   understanding of the biological processes at the cellular, subcellular,
    and molecular level, and will thus provide the DOE with a unique and
    advanced resource for studying and quantifying biological mechanisms
        related to damage associated with radiation and environmental
              by-products of energy production and utilization.

     Roles of Human Recombination Genes in Genome Instability (NIH/NASA)

                Principal Investigator: David J-C. Chen, LS-6

     Persistent genomic instability has been observed in the progeny of
     mammalian cells exposed to ionizing radiation. This instability is
    manifested as delayed expression of lethal mutations, accumulation of
         coincidental mutations, and elevated, non-clonal karyotypic
   heterogeneity. Limited studies with alpha particles have also suggested
    that high linear energy transfer (LET) radiation is more potent than
    low LET gamma rays as an inducer of heritable genome instability. The
     molecular mechanisms underlying radiation-induced heritable genome
    instability are not known. In the yeast S. cerevisiae there is strong
    evidence that genes of the RAD52 epistasis group, which are essential
     for DNA double-stand break repair and homologous recombination, are
      also involved in maintaining the global integrity of the genome.
     Recently, human homologs of the yeast RAD51 and RAD52 genes (dubbed
     hhRAD51 and hhRAD52) have been cloned. The hypothesis we propose to
      test is that hhRAD51 and hhRAD52 have roles in maintaining genome
   integrity, such that loss of expression of these genes will exacerbate
   radiation-induced heritable genome instability. We have three specific
   aims. The first is to determine the effects of hhRad51/52 deficiency in
        human cells on ionizing radiation-induced genome instability.
    Expression of hhRAD and/or hhRAD52 in human cells will be eliminated
    through gene knockouts or suppressed through expression of antisense
      RNA. Deficient cells will be assayed for chromosomal aberrations
        immediately after irradiation and over several generations of
     subsequent passage. The second aim is to determine whether high-Z,
   high-energy (HZE) particles are more potent than gamma rays as inducers
      of heritable chromosomal instability in human cells. Chromosomal
     aberrations will be monitored by chromosome-specific fluorescent in
   situ hybridization (FISH) techniques. Further global view of the gains
   and losses that have occurred in the DNA of genetically instable clones
   will be determined by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis.
   HZE particles will be compared with low LET gamma rays or high LET, low
     energy-particles for efficiency in inducing genome instability. Our
      third aim is to determine whether a temporal relationship exists
      between heritable chromosomal instability and the expression of a
     delayed mutator phenotype. Individual colonies of human cells that
    exhibit heritable chromosomal instability after exposure to ionizing
         radiation will be further tested for other types of genomic
   instability. Cells will be examined for microsatellite DNA instability,
    loss of heterozygousity, or delayed mutation induction, and the onset
      of such changes will be related to the occurrence of chromosomal
        abnormalities. We will determine mutation frequencies in the
      hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT) locus and in other
        non-selectable marker loci using restriction fragment length
       polymorphism / polymerase chain reaction (RFLP/PCR) techniques.

           Flow Cytometric Analysis of Multiple DNA Fluorochromes

               Principal Investigator: Harry A. Crissman, LS-4

    The long term objective is to develop new flow cytometric assays that
     utilize multiple, DNA base-specific fluorochromes and advanced FCM
    technology to 1) detect subtle changes in the native configuration of
      chromatin in response to physiological stimuli and 2) to improve
     resolution of individual chromosomes. Since flow cytometry permits
   analysis of DNA within intact nuclei and chromosomes, where the higher
   order of chromatin is maintained, the technique provides more accurate
       correlations between genomic regulation and cellular function.
    Multiple-fluorochrome labeling and correlated FCM analysis is used to
        detect relative changes in DNA accessibility to the different
      base-specific probes. Analysis of stained samples is performed in
    several FCM systems, including a phase-sensitive system that assays a
    new FCM parameter, fluorescence lifetime. Lifetime analysis provides
      for improved resolution of multiple fluorochromes and also yields
    information on the interactions of probes with DNA. The technology is
      used to analyze and correlate changes in chromatin structure with
    cellular function during cell activation, differentiation, cell cycle
     progression and is also used for improving resolution of individual
    chromosomes in flow karyotype studies. The methodology has potential
   for providing a new cytochemical approach for rapidly assaying changes
          in chromatin structure in heterogeneous cell populations.

        New Method for Isolating Radiation-Sensitive Mutants (NIEHS)

                Principal Investigator: James P. Freyer, LS-4

      Technology for the isolation of mammalian cell mutants which are
    sensitive to environmental agents are extremely laborious, precluding
     the ability to screen large numbers of clones. We are developing a
      fundamentally new procedure for rapidly isolating mammalian cell
    mutants that are sensitive to radiation. This technique combines the
       culture of large numbers of clonally-derived, three-dimensional
   mammalian cell aggregates (`spheroids') with methods we have developed
       for rapidly analyzing and sorting intact spheroids using a flow
     cytometer. This procedure will have several advantages over current
    procedures: 1) rapid isolation of large numbers of individual clones
    for sensitivity testing; 2) automated sensitivity analysis; 3) rapid
     separation of sensitive clones; and 4) recovery of surviving cells
    directly from the same colonies which are tested for sensitivity. In
      the past year, we have tested several designs for the sorting of
   cellular aggregates, and settled on a design which uses a modification
    of traditional droplet-in-air sorting. The instrument design has been
     finalized, and the fluidics control module has been constructed and
       delivered. Work is progressing on the detection systems and the
   electronic/computer systems using the DiDAC technology developed by the
     National Flow Cytometry Resource. We are also refining methods for
                producing large numbers of clonal spheroids.

                   National Flow Cytometry Resource (NIH)

                    Program Director: James H. Jett, LS-5

     The National Flow Cytometry Resource (NFCR) began its 16th year of
     funding by the NIH National Center for Research Resources on 1 July
     1997. This is the first year of a 5 year renewal that will carry us
   through the 20th year. The renewal is the result of a highly successful
    review that followed a large effort on the part of the NFCR staff to
       define new areas of development and to prepare a comprehensive
   proposal. The current research projects include bead-based assays lead
   by John Nolan, kinetic cytometry lead by Larry Sklar (NFCR Co-Director
   and Professor at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine), and
     DNA fragment size analysis led by Jim Jett and Babetta Marrone. The
       other activities of the Resource continue to be very productive
    including collaborations - 27 were included in the renewal proposal,
   service projects - 5 types described in the renewal, training - we had
       contact with over 300 `students' over a three year period, and
       dissemination - the site visit bibliography listed 125 articles
                        resulting from NFCR efforts.

              Role of Nuclear Architecture in DNA Repair (NIH)

                  Principal Investigator: Min S. Park, LS-8

   The main objective of this research is to determine the role of nuclear
     architecture in DNA repair using the DNA repair protein, XPG, whose
   genetic defect results in a skin cancer and mental retardation. During
    the first year of this project, the nuclear localization signal (NLS)
    of XPG was confirmed using a reporter protein, the green fluorescent
      protein (GFP), and site-directed mutagenesis. When the positively
    charged amino acids in the putative NLS were changed to alanine, the
   GFP-NLS failed to translocate into the nucleus. Proliferating cellular
     nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a DNA polymerase accessory factor that is
     required for DNA replication and for resynthesis during nucleotide
        excision repair of damaged DNA. PCNA also resides in nuclear
    architectural domains as XPG does. Recently, we have confirmed that a
    direct physical interaction between XPG and PCNA is required for the
    nucleotide excision repair. We were able to identify the interaction
         domain on XPG that shares key hydrophobic residues with the
    PCNA-binding domain of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. The
    demonstration of a physical interaction between PCNA and XPG provides
      the first direct evidence for the role of PCNA in DNA repair. The
    findings that the PCNA-binding regions of XPG, FEN-1, p21 compete for
       the same site on PCNA has important implications as to how DNA
       replication and repair, and cell cycle checkpoint controls are
                                coordinated.

         Flow Cytometer for Quantifying Fluorescence Lifetime (NIH)

               Principal Investigator: John A. Steinkamp, LS-5

        The research goal of this project is to develop advanced flow
   cytometric methods for measuring phase-resolved fluorescence emissions
    and excited-state lifetimes on fluorochromes bound to macromolecular
    components in cells and chromosomes by phase-sensitive detection. The
     specific aims of this proposal are: 1) to apply the technology to a
    wide range of biological systems that take advantage of these unique
   measurement capabilities; 2) to determine the limits of the technology
   for detecting and measuring low-level emission signals from fluorescent
   probes in backgrounds caused by cellular autofluorescence, by spectral
         emission overlap among fluorescence detection channels, by
       unbound/nonspecific fluorophore labeling, and by Raman/Rayleigh
    scatter; and 3) to improve upon and advance the technology for making
   phase-resolved multicolor fluorescence and lifetime measurements using
       single- or dual-modulated laser excitation. A first-generation,
    phase-sensitive flow cytometer has been developed that combines flow
   cytometry and fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy measurement principles
    to provide unique capabilities for making phase-resolved measurements
   on fluorochrome-labeled cells and subcellular components (chromosomes).
     In the prototype system, cells/chromosomes labeled with fluorescent
     probes are analyzed as they intersect a high-frequency (sine wave),
     intensity-modulated laser beam. Modulated fluorescence signals are
    processed by phase-sensitive detection electronics to resolve signals
   from overlapping probe emissions and to quantify lifetime in real time.
   This new technology will increase the range of fluorescent markers that
   can be used in multi-labeling applications; yield more accurate results
       by enhancing measurement precision and sensitivity and reducing
       background interferences; and through biomedical research, the
   technology will significantly expand the researchers' understanding of
   biological processes at the cellular, subcellular, and molecular level.

                 Structural Studies of Gene V Protein (NIH)

             Principal Investigator: Thomas C. Terwilliger, LS-8

       The specific aims of this project are: 1) to determine crystal
          structures of complexes formed between gene V protein and
     oligonucleotides that bind specifically and non-specifically to the
    protein, 2) to examine the effects of single and double mutations in
   gene V protein on the structure and properties of the protein, focusing
   on the relationship between the extent of additivity of effects of two
    mutations and the regions structurally affected by the mutations when
       made individually, and 3) to develop techniques that will allow
       macromolecular crystallographic experiments to be analyzed more
                                 accurately.

    Determining the Role of the Telomere on the Severity of Birth Defects
                                   (LDRD)

              Principal Investigator: Michael R. Altherr, LS-3

    LDRD support for this project terminated at the end of FY97. However,
      this effort provided the foundation for a number of new proposals
   submitted to the NIH and DOE. The research conducted under this program
   has had a profound effect on the characterization of human malady, the
      Wolf Hirschhorn Syndrome (WHS), caused by a terminal deletion of
   chromosome 4. As a result of our efforts, a series of "landmark" cosmid
      DNA clones are being employed by researchers around the world to
    characterize their patients with a uniform set of reagents. This has
     had a direct impact on genetic characterization of the disorder. We
    have identified approximately 15 putative coding sequences that might
   contribute to the WHS. This effort was facilitated by the availability
     of complete genomic sequence available for the entire WHS critical
     region. The entire genomic sequence of this region was analyzed by
      BLAST software. As a result several independent cDNA clones were
    identified from the dbEST data base. In addition, computer algorithms
     designed to detect potential coding sequences have detected several
    other candidate genes. These cDNAs show no significant similarity to
     members of other DNA or protein databases. Furthermore, these genes
      have been localized within the WHS critical region and reveal an
     interesting pattern of transcriptional organization. The available
       genomic sequence and our attempts to characterize the potential
    transcriptional units have sharpened our focus on the development of
     methods to explore the functional significance of the human genome.

   Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectroscopy of Unusual DNA Structures
                                   (LDRD)

              Principal Investigator: E. Morton Bradbury, LS-DO

   We propose to accomplish the following specific aims: 1) determination
   of unusual DNA structures formed by polynucleotides containing triplet
    microsatellite and insulin minisatellite sequences, 2) development of
     an in vitro replication assay to demonstrate the presence of these
     unusual DNA structures during replication, and 3) reconstitution of
   nucleosomes with DNA containing CTG/CCG triplet repeats as positioning
                                 sequences.

      The successful completion of these specific aims will help us to
     understand the structural basis of length polymorphism exhibited by
       various microsatellites and minisatellites in the human genome.

      We have determined the high resolution structure by 2DNMR of the
   intramolecularly folded C-rich strand of the insulin minisatellite. We
    have performed a series of in vitro replication assays to demonstrate
     that the GAA/TTC triplet repeats associated with Friedrich's ataxia
   form triplexes during replication. The stability of these triplexes is
      significantly enhanced for disease phenotypes with repeat number
    exceeding 200. We have identified (CTG)8 as the strongest nucleosome
     positioning sequence and structural studies on this well positioned
   nucleosome. One of the major difficulties in obtaining high resolution
     structural information of the nucleosome core particle has been the
    lack of a DNA sequence that has high fidelity positioning around the
   protein core. The 5S gene nucleosome positioning sequence that has been
    routinely used for low resolution studies positions nucleosomes into
                     one major and two minor locations.

       DNA sequence motifs containing trinucleotide repeats have been
        identified that show higher affinity for nucleosomes. We have
   constructed a library of DNA fragments isolated from nucloesome dimers
     and screened this library for sequences containing simple sequence
     repeats. Using this approach, we identified several sequences with
    trinucleotide repeat regions. Nucleosome monomer length fragments of
       these sequences were then tested for their ability to position
    nucleosomes. Several previously characterized sequences with similar
     sequence motifs, including the Huntington's disease gene, were also
    tested. Using reconstitution and a gel mobility shift assay, we have
      identified a sequence containing a stretch of 8 CTG trinucleotide
     repeats that positions nucleosomes to a single position. We are now
        characterizing this sequence further and will use nucleosomes
    reconstituted with this sequence in structural studies. We have also
   shown that several other sequences with longer stretches of CTG repeats
   do not position nucleosomes to a single position. This information can
   greatly contribute to our understanding of the role of DNA sequence in
             nucleosome positioning some is currently underway.

   Identification and Characterization of a Human DNA Double Strand Break
                            Repair Complex (LDRD)

                Principal Investigator: David J-C. Chen, LS-6

       One of the objectives of this project is to study the nature of
      DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) using both biochemical and
     microscopy techniques. To perform these experiments we first had to
      purify adequate quantities of the protein. To accomplish this we
      designed a novel purification strategy that employs a monoclonal
      antibody that binds specifically the Ku86 subunit of DNA-PK. Both
     atomic force and electron microscopy have been used to examine the
     behavior of purified Ku70/Ku86 and DNA-PK catalytic subunit. Direct
         observation of Ku/DNA complexes has shown that Ku will form
   nucleoprotein filaments in the presence of linear DNA. The requirement
    for linear DNA suggests Ku/DNA filaments are formed by translocation
     from DNA ends to internal sites. These findings are consistent with
       previous biochemical and microscopic studies of Ku. Microscopic
   analysis of purified catalytic subunit in the presence of DNA indicates
    association of DNA-PK with DNA is dependent on the presence of the Ku
     subunit. Experiments performed in the presence of Ku, the catalytic
      subunit and DNA reveal the formation of large complexes along the
      length of linear DNA. This finding indicates the formation of the
   DNA-PK is not limited to DNA ends but rather that the catalytic subunit
     is capable of associating with Ku bound to internal site DNA. These
        findings answer questions that have been difficult to address
    unambiguously by biochemical methods and reveal important information
     regarding the formation of the DNA-PK/DNA complex. As more proteins
     associated with the DNA strand break repair complex are identified,
   microscopic studies will provide a framework for building a structural
                           model of this complex.

                     Human Artificial Chromosome (LDRD)

          Principal Investigator: Norman A. Doggett, LS-3 and CHGS

    The aim of this project is to develop a human artificial chromosome.
   Each human chromosome contains a single molecule of DNA and roughly an
    equal mass of protein. Encoded in the DNA of the all chromosomes (22
     autosomes pairs and the X and Y sex chromosomes) are the 60,000 to
      100,000 genes that contain the genetic information for nearly all
     proteins that makeup the human body (a few proteins are transcribed
       from mitochondrial genes). Chromosomes also contain specialized
         structures that serve to maintain chromosome integrity and
      functionality. These include telomeres which protect the ends of
     chromosomes from shortening during the DNA replicative phase of the
   cell cycle, 2) centromeric DNA which is associated with the kinetochore
   and serves as the key attachment site to the spindle during mitosis and
      meiosis, 3) origins of replication which are the sites where DNA
        replication initiates, and 4) matrix attachment sites for the
    attachment of DNA to the protein nuclear scaffolding. Our goal is to
     develop a mammalian (human) artificial chromosome that contains the
   minimal essential chromosomal components for stable maintenance in the
   mammalian nucleus. A mammalian artificial chromosome (MAC) would permit
   the cloning of fragments of DNA that are large enough to drive full and
      controlled expression of a therapeutic gene, and would be stably
   maintained in parallel with human chromosomes in any cell into which it
   is introduced. The successful development of a MAC cloning system would
   have profound effects on human gene therapy and on our understanding of
   how chromosomes function. In a collaborative effort with scientists at
      the National Institutes of Health we have developed modified YAC
      vectors arms for cloning human centromere fragments. The vectors
   contain yeast components to function as a YAC (centromere, autonomously
       replicating sequence, and selectable markers), as well as human
    components (telomere, replication origin, and selectable marker). We
     are attempting to acquire stable propagation in mammalian cells by
   cloning centromere function into this vector. We are also attempting to
           clone the centromere region of chromosome 16 using the
      transformation-associated recombination (TAR) cloning approach in
    collaboration with Drs. Vladimir Larionov and Natalya Kouprina of the
    NIEHS. In this approach "hook" sequences from both ends of the region
   of interest are constructed into the cloning vector and these are mixed
      with total genomic DNA and introduced into yeast. The yeast cell
   recombines these sequences in the regions of identity to create a clone
                  containing the region that was targeted.

     Substrate-Dependent Cell Cycle Disturbances in Response to Ionizing
                              Radiation (LDRD)

                 Principal Investigator: Donna Gadbois, LS-4

    Radiation causes normal cells to delay at specific phases of the cell
   cycle in order to repair damaged DNA, thus preventing gene alterations
    that can lead to cancer. Historically, radiation cell-cycle delays in
    anchorage-dependent fibroblasts have been studied in cells maintained
       on polystyrene culture plates, even though polystyrene markedly
       deviates from the extracellular matrix to which such cells are
    juxtaposed in vivo. The goal of our project is to study the effect of
          the extracellular matrix on radiation cell-cycle delays.

      We have shown that the extent of the radiation delays is markedly
   influenced by the type of substrate on which the cells are maintained.
    Virtually all fibroblasts that are maintained on polystyrene culture
      plates ultimately arrest in G1 phase after irradiation. However,
   fibroblasts that are irradiated on Mylar or on the naturally occurring
    substrate laminin do not undergo a terminal G1 arrest. We have shown
   that the terminal radiation arrest on polystyrene can be reversed in a
    manner that suggests the involvement of altered cell surface receptor
      interactions with the extracellular substrate. Our recent studies
    suggest that the substrate-dependent radiation arrest is dependent on
         the production of an extracellular factor post-irradiation.

    This finding may suggest that previous cell-cycle analyses made with
    radiation-exposed, anchorage-dependent cells cultured conventionally
   have led to erroneous conclusions that are not predictive of responses
   in vivo. Further, our findings suggest that a mechanistic understanding
    of cell-substrate interactions could lead to new therapeutic measures
    for abating the proliferative pulmonary fibrotic response induced by
                    treating lung tumors with radiation.

              An Integrated Structural Biology Resource (LDRD)

    Principal Investigators: Angel Garcia, T-10; Joel Berendzen, P-21; L.
               Scott Cram, LS-DO; and William Woodruff, CST-4

   An Integrated Structural Biology Resource (ISBR) was organized in early
    1996 and formally initiated in October 1996. Investigators from Life
    Sciences (LS), Chemical Science & Technology (CST), Physics (P), and
      Theoretical (T) Divisions, are jointly constructing the ISBR. The
    thrust, which includes both experimental and theoretical approaches,
    targets the structural biology of macromolecular complexes and their
   role in the effects of radiation, chemical, biological and other agents
        on biological processes. The scientific goal is to understand
     environmentally induced DNA damage and the assembly, structure and
      function of DNA repair enzymes. This requires an understanding of
       biological systems at the molecular and structural levels. The
     technological goal is to integrate a unique combination of advanced
     instrumentation and expertise into a single resource in structural
     biology. By focusing on a central scientific issue, DNA damage and
   repair, a multifaceted structural biology resource is being created to
       enhance the role of Los Alamos as a leader in a field of major
                                 importance.

   The ISBR team is looking at self-assembly of repair enzyme complexes to
    form their native functional structures; folding dynamics of subunits
        and formation of supermolecular structures; three-dimensional
    structures and the structural basis of damage recognition and repair;
    and the nature and dynamics of macromolecular assembly of DNA repair
   complexes. Primary focus is on DNA flap endonuclease (Fen-1) and Ku (a
   DNA double-strand break-repair protein). In addition there are smaller
           efforts in UBL-1 and PARP (Poly ADP Ribose Polymerase).

       There is also a DNA labeling effort that includes site-specific
      labeling to identify C-C pairs; use of site-specific labeling to
      determine the structure and stability of a triplex DNA; use of a
    PCR-based method for large-scale synthesis of uniformly labeled DNA;
      and determination of bent DNA structures, which are important in
   DNA-protein interactions. The theory and modeling task is establishing
     the theoretical basis for studying the energetics of macromolecular
      complex formation, quantifying the role of water in biomolecular
    complex formation, quantifying configurational entropies, developing
    techniques and software for homology modeling of protein structures,
                    and modeling of Ku70/Ku80 structure.

    Experimental resources being assembled include x-ray crystallography,
   neutron and x-ray scattering, NMR spectroscopy, and protein expression
     and purification. The x-ray crystallography resource emphasizes the
     determination of 3-D structure of proteins and their complexes with
      other proteins and nucleic acids. The ISBR team has established a
     crystallography station beamline at the National Synchrotron Light
       Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The neutron and x-ray
    scattering resource uses small-angle scattering to study the solution
       structure of Ku and its complex with DNA. The team has obtained
   information on the stoichiometry of the Ku-DNA binding that is relevant
    to a proposed mechanism of repair; studied the DNA-PKcs structure in
       solution; and successfully commissioned a new small-angle x-ray
   scattering instrument with point-collimation and 2-D position-sensitive
        detector. The NMR resource is upgrading its AMX-500 to a DRX
    effectively doubling the NMR time available for structural biology. A
       new Integrated Spectroscopy Laboratory is coming on-line; a new
        difference FTIR capability has been constructed with enhanced
   sensitivity. A new expression and purification resource for large-scale
   production and purification of proteins has just been completed and is
                          starting to come on-line.

     In addition, the facilities at Los Alamos Neutron Scattering Center
     (LANSCE) offer a rare capability to apply neutron scattering to the
       study of biological problems. Construction of a new biological
   scattering station is underway at LANSCE; this capability is described
                       elsewhere in the annual report.

      Engineering Novel Biosensors to Detect Priority Pollutant Phenols
                                   (LDRD)

        Principal Investigators: Cheryl R. Kuske, LS-7 and Thomas C.
                              Terwilliger, LS-8

    Bacterial biosensors can be an inexpensive way to monitor industrial
      pollution. Placing a reporter gene under control of an inducible
     promoter can create a basic biosensor. The reporter gene produces a
     signal when a cognate transcriptional activator senses the inducing
    chemical. Creation of bacterial biosensors is currently restricted by
        our limited knowledge of the genetic systems of bacteria that
    catabolize xenobiotics. We are testing the potential for engineering
       novel biosensors by using mutagenic PCR to change the chemical
     specificity of the Pseudomonas species CF600 DmpR protein. DmpR, a
   transcriptional activator of P. CF600's dmp operon, mediates growth on
     simple phenols. Transcription from Po, the promoter heading the dmp
     operon, is activated when the sensor domain of DmpR interacts with
   phenol and mono-substituted phenols. By altering DmpR's sensor domain,
    we created a set of DmpR derivatives that activate transcription of a
    Po-lacZ fusion in response to eight of the eleven priority pollutant
       phenols listed by the EPA. We are now characterizing individual
       mutations in the DmpR derivatives for their effect on chemical
                             detection ability.

     Soil Microorganisms for Bioremediation of Hydrocarbon Pollutants in
                          Soils and Aquifers (LDRD)

                Principal Investigator: Cheryl R. Kuske, LS-7

    The goal of this project is to develop bacterial delivery systems for
         expression, function, maintenance and transfer of enhanced
   bioremediation activity in contaminated soil and water environments. We
         are identifying and isolating native bacterial species from
     contaminated sites that have different genetic makeup and different
     nutritional requirements for use as potential hosts for introduced
    genes. Fast-growing bacteria that have historically been used for in
      situ bioremediation attempts often do not survive as well in the
   environment as more slow-growing species. We have isolated a collection
       of bacterial species indigenous to contaminated sites, and have
   demonstrated that the bacteria that grow slowly in the laboratory share
     genetic markers that can be used to generally distinguish them from
    fast-growing bacteria. Using microcosms that mimic contaminated soil
        environments, we are comparing the effectiveness of fast and
   slow-growing bacterial isolates as delivery systems for introduction of
       novel genes into contaminated environments. The contribution of
   horizontal gene transfer to the establishment and spread of novel genes
    in these environments will also be investigated. Sampling efforts at
     two contaminated field sites, an aquifer at TA-18 and a large spill
     site at White Sands, have identified new organisms able to degrade
   1,2-dichloroethane. In collaboration with investigators in LS-6, and in
     CST and T divisions, we are characterizing the catabolic enzymes in
    these organisms to provide new models to guide the rational design of
          improved proteins for degradation of 1,2-dichloroethane.

        Molecular Genetic Analysis of Spotted Owls Populations (LDRD)

             Principal Investigator: Jonathan L. Longmire, LS-3

       The Life Sciences Division of LANL has developed extraordinary
    expertise in the molecular analysis of genetic polymorphisms, due in
     large part to the Human Genome Project. We are now using these same
       methods to examine the genetic structure and demographics of a
        federally threatened species, the Mexican spotted owl (Strix
     occidentalis lucida). Our approach is to isolate DNA from feathers
       collected at nest sites. A series of microsatellite markers are
    analyzed within the feather DNA to identify individuals, gender, and
      genetic relatedness among individuals. This project will address
   important scientific questions concerning the usefulness of noninvasive
    techniques for genetic analyses of threatened and endangered animals
   and the genetic viability of isolated Mexican spotted owl populations.

    Multiplex Polymorphism Analysis by Flow Cytometry for High Throughput
                              Screening (LDRD)

    Principal Investigators: John Nolan, LS-5; P. Scott White, LS-3; and
                               Hong Cai, CST-1

   Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are sites in the genome where a
   different nucleotide may occur on the two chromosomes of an individual
    or within populations of individuals. This heterogeneity provides an
    analytical "handle" for identifying and mapping disease genes as well
   as tracing inheritance patterns. As such SNP analysis has been and will
      be an integral part of genome science in the next decade. Current
      methods for SNP analysis are not amenable to the high throughput
       screening for this level of analysis, for reasons of speed and
    sensitivity. We are using flow cytometry to develop new approaches to
    SNP detection and analysis that address these limitations. First, we
    are using the mismatch binding protein MutS immobilized on to detect
    heteroduplex DNA in complex mixtures of PCR products or genomic DNA.
   Once detected, conventional DNA sequencing can identify these SNPs. We
     can then analyze the frequency of each base at polymorphic sites by
     either a microsphere-based minisequencing or oligo ligation method.
    Using different sized or different colored beads can multiplex these
      approaches. Thus, we can simultaneously detect SNPs from multiple
   regions and individuals or measure the SNP frequency at multiple sites
     of a single individual or pool of individuals. We are testing these
     methods on sequences with known polymorphic features and on samples
   from patients with beryllium sensitivity, a condition associated with a
    specific polymorphism. These methods will have significant advantages
      in speed and sensitivity over existing methods for detecting and
   analyzing SNPs, providing powerful genomics tools for exploring genetic
                           diversity and disease.

    Competency Development in Antibody Production in Cancer Cell Biology
                                   (LDRD)

                  Principal Investigator: Min S. Park, LS-8

        The main objective of this project was to develop an in-house
   recombinant antibody production technology. This objective was achieved
    through: 1) production of recombinant antigens that are important for
     cell cycle regulation and DNA repair, 2) immunization and specific
   selection of antibody-producing lymphocytes using flow cytometry and a
       magnetic bead assay, 3) construction of a single-chain antibody
       library, and 4) development of recombinant vectors that target,
    express, and regulate the expression of intracellular antibodies. We
   have accomplished: 1) optimization of a selection procedure to isolate
   antigen-specific lymphocytes, 2) optimization of the construction of a
      single-chain antibody library, and 3) development of new antibody
   expression vectors for intracellular immunization. The future direction
       of this research will continue to test the potential use of the
     intracellular immunization procedure as a tool to study biochemical
     function of cellular molecules and to explore a recently developed
    immuno-cancer therapy procedure that specifically inhibits the growth
                              of cancer cells.

            Targeted in vitro Evolution of Protein Ligands (LDRD)

                                     and

     Molecular Recognition and Inactivation of Bacterial Toxins by Small
                           Molecule Ligands (LDRD)

               Principal Investigator: Scott R. Peterson, LS-4

   The adaptation of biomolecules to perform highly specialized functions
   is a product of the evolutionary pressure of natural selection that has
     operated over hundreds of millions of years. These two new programs
     will focus on developing and implementing in vitro approaches that
   mimic the power of natural selection for creating low molecular weight
   biomolecules that are capable of novel molecular interactions. We will
   employ the technique of in vitro evolution of nucleic acid molecules to
   produce RNA molecules that are capable of binding to a chosen molecular
   target with high affinity and specificity. In addition to implementing
   the in vitro approach to generating RNAs, we are developing an approach
   to do the same with polypeptide molecules. In this case our goal is to
   develop a procedure capable of selectively evolving proteins to bind to
      molecular targets in vitro. The power of the in vitro approach to
    bio-selection is that you begin with a library of starting molecules
      containing a high degree of molecular diversity, e.g., libraries
   containing 1E14 random nucleic acid molecules. Individual biomolecules
   that are capable of binding to a molecular target are present at a low
    frequency in this library, however the power of the technique lies in
    its ability to selectively amplify these rare molecules from the high
    diversity library using the polymerase chain reaction. We propose to
     apply these in vitro evolution techniques to pursue three important
     goals: 1) the production of biomolecules that block the actions of
    bacterial toxins produced by biowarfare and terrorist agents, 2) the
    production of biomolecules to act as recognition elements for point-
        and bio-sensors, and 3) to develop rapid molecular probes for
    biological research applications in the arena of functional genomics.

                      Biological Aerosol Monitor (LDRD)

                Principal Investigator: Gary C. Salzman, LS-5

      Co-Investigators: Cheryl Lemanski, LS-5; George Saunders, BioFor
      Associates; David Beck, P-21; John Stephens, CST-1; Dipen Sinha,
                   MST-11; and Jurgen Feuerherd, ComForce

   This project is focused on developing a trigger to alert troops quickly
   that a biological aerosol cloud has drifted onto their location. We are
   investigating fluorescence excitation of tryptophan or NADH along with
    simultaneous measurement of particle size using single particle light
      scattering. The goal is to develop a very small, battery-powered
                          instrument for field use.

     Developing the Groundwork for a Protein Structure Initiative (LDRD)

        Principal Investigators: Thomas C. Terwilliger, LS-8 and Joel
                               Berendzen, P-21

        The human and microbial genome initiatives are proving to be
      spectacular successes. Technical hurdles have been overcome more
   readily than anticipated and the pace of new information from completed
         sequences far surpasses early estimates. Inspired by these
   accomplishments, discussions are now widely taking place on how best to
   take advantage of the sequences from the genome projects to understand,
       modify, and even engineer proteins, nucleic acids, and cellular
   function. One area of functional genomics that is being widely examined
      is the overall function of each individual protein in a genome. A
     second area concerns the structures and detailed functions of these
    proteins. There is now a groundswell of interest in a major effort to
   determine structures of representative sets of protein structures that
    could be used to model or predict structures of any protein molecule.
    We have been taking an active role in promoting a national project in
     this area. We co-hosted a workshop held in January, 1998 at Argonne
      National Laboratory entitled, "Structural Genomics: Understanding
   Proteins Essential to Life" that was attended by some 90 scientists and
   program administrators from the USA, Canada, and Europe. The consensus
     of the workshop was that a large-scale project in protein structure
   determination is now feasible and important. We are now in the process
   of carrying out a pilot-scale test of high-throughput protein structure
           determination in anticipation of a full-scale project.

    Engineering the Specificity of xylR, a Bacterial Protein that Detects
                     Chemicals in the Environment (LDRD)

   Principal Investigators: Thomas C. Terwilliger, LS-8; Cheryl R. Kuske,
                       LS-7; and Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

      Microorganisms have sensitive systems to detect trace amounts of
    organic compounds that are based on the ability of certain regulator
   proteins to bind these compounds. Binding of a compound to a regulator
      protein initiates a cell's response by activating the pathway to
   degrade that compound into non-toxic metabolites useful to the cell. If
   we were able to manipulate the specificity of such a detector protein,
      we could produce microorganisms better able to detect and degrade
   organic pollutants such as trichloroethylene (TCE). Presence of TCE in
       ground water and soil is one of the most widespread and serious
   pollution problems in the US today. We are modifying the xylR protein,
    a regulatory protein that normally detects toluene, to detect TCE. We
     are creating a large number of variant proteins and using sensitive
   fluorescence and flow cytometry-based methods to identify variants that
     bind TCE but not toluene. Engineered TCE-detecting proteins will be
   useful in creating bacterial biosensors that respond to the presence of
     TCE by emitting light. Such biosensors will be of practical use to
      rapidly and inexpensively detect TCE in contaminated field sites.
     Additionally, engineered TCE-detecting proteins will be a critical
       component in the development of bacteria that can degrade this
   pollutant in the environment. The procedures we develop for engineering
      this detection system will be quite general and applicable to the
       construction of proteins that bind a wide variety of compounds.

      Detecting Antibiotic Resistance Genes in Microbial Species (Other
                                   Agency)

                Principal Investigator: Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

    The goal of the program is to develop molecular and functional assays
    to detect antibiotic resistance in microbial pathogens. Such methods
    are advantageous because they do not require growth of pathogens and
     are much more rapid. They may also be applied to non-viable samples
    from archived tissues or environmental releases from facilities that
     might be preparing such cultures as biological weapons. Methods are
     based on PCR amplification of DNA fragments that are diagnostic for
    resistance. However, the ability to grow in the presence of normally
    toxic antibiotic concentrations is often not simply the result of the
    presence of a particular gene but is associated with minor changes in
     DNA sequences. We are therefore developing a functional assay that
    allows rapid insertion of a PCR amplicon into a DNA cassette followed
     by insertion of the cassette into a test bacterium and testing for
     antibiotic resistance. PCR analysis allows detection of previously
     characterize DNA changes leading to antibiotic resistance while the
    functional assay allows identification of novel mutations that might
       lead to the same phenotype. We are currently characterizing the
     regulatory sequences responsible for expression of ß-lactamases in
    response to penicillin exposure and will develop a PCR based strategy
    to detect resistance to this important class of antibiotics based on
                    changes in these regulatory elements.

    Development of Molecular Techniques to Analyze Medical, Forensic and
         Environmental Samples for Microbial Content (Other Agency)

                Principal Investigator: Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

   We have developed and optimized methods of analyzing DNA extracted from
      a wide variety of samples, including environmental and laboratory
    samples, human and animal tissues and liquids and historical archived
     samples. PCR primers that detect a wide variety of human and animal
   pathogens have been developed and extensively tested. We have validated
     these primers by using them to test samples suspected of containing
      non-viable pathogens or their remnants. DNA was extracted from 11
       victims of a 1979 accidental release of B. anthracis spores in
       Sverdlovsk, located in the former Soviet Union. Results clearly
   demonstrated that all of the victims died as a result of infection with
       fully virulent B. anthracis. They also indicate that the spores
     released were produced from a mixture of at least four different B.
   anthracis strains. We are currently continuing analysis of the samples
    to determine whether the mixture might lead to a population of spores
   resistant to different defensive therapeutic strategies used by western
                                  military.

       Epidemiological Analysis of New Castle Disease Outbreaks Using
    Polymerase Chain Reactions (PCR)-based Strain Analysis (Other Agency)

                Principal Investigator: Paul J. Jackson, LS-7

   The goal of this project was to develop and test molecular methods that
    rapidly differentiate among different New Castle Disease (NDV) virus
      strains and virulence types. NDV is a 15.1 kb negative strand RNA
      virus. Analysis of sequences from each of the viral genes showed
      significant variability in some regions flanked by more conserved
   sequences. This distribution of sequences allowed design of PCR primers
      in the flanking conserved sequences and amplification of variable
     regions. Sequencing of the variable amplicons and comparison among
        different isolates and control samples was used to complete a
     phylogenetic analysis of samples. To test the method, RNA from NDV
   samples responsible for an outbreak of the disease in Northern Ireland
    poultry were analyzed. Prior to analysis, there was speculation that
     the outbreak was caused by an intentional release of the virus into
    poultry farms by the Irish Republican Army (IRS). Analysis of the PCR
   and sequencing data showed that the outbreak was caused by a strain of
    NDV prevalent in wild water fowl populations at the time and was not
   the result of a terrorist activity. All of the affected farms analyzed
     showed the presence of this strain or a vaccine strain. Inhalation
   vaccine over-doses were apparently responsible for some of the diseased
    flocks. We are currently attempting to obtain RNA from native strains
    prevalent at different locations in northern Europe. Feed stocks were
   shipped to Northern Ireland primarily through Belgium. We are therefore
                    focusing on isolates from that area.

   Development of Ultrasensitive Biological Assays (Other Industry: Amgen)

    Principal Investigators: Richard A. Keller, CST-1 and James H. Jett,
                                    LS-5

       The goal of this project was to develop, using single molecule
     detection capabilities, an ultrasensitive assay for ligand-receptor
        interactions to be used to search for novel ligands to cloned
   receptors. Receptors, labeled with fluorophors that can be detected at
   the single molecule level, would be brought together by the presence of
    the activating ligand in the solution. Using a sensitive fluorescence
     detection flow cytometer, the fluorescence intensity of single and
          aggregate molecules would be measured. The signature of a
   receptor-ligand-receptor complex would be an increase in the number of
   events with 2X fluorescence intensity. This project has been terminated
   due to difficulties in reliably labeling the receptors in a manner that
    did not interfere with ligand binding. This aspect of the project was
   the responsibility of the CRADA partner that funded the project. During
      the year sensitive fluorescence detection methods were applied to
        analysis of 2 microliter reaction volumes to demonstrate the
      feasibility of measuring enzyme kinetics in minutes in such small
    volumes. The application is to large scale screening of combinatorial
                  chemical libraries for enzyme inhibitors.

               DNA Fingerprinting of Cowbird Populations (DOI)

             Principal Investigator: Jonathan L. Longmire, LS-3

    The cowbird is the only bird species in North America that reproduces
    by obligate brood parasitism. The cowbird is termed "brood parasitic"
   because it lays it's eggs into the nests of other species of birds. The
     host species then take on the responsibility of egg incubation and
   rearing of the young cowbirds. This process is often detrimental to the
     host species because the eggs of the host can receive insufficient
    incubation or the natural offspring of the host are unable to compete
   effectively for food from the parents. This can result in the death of
     the host's natural offspring and failure of the host to reproduce.
      Brood parasitism by cowbirds can be a significant problem in the
     management of endangered and threatened species of birds when those
       species serve as host. Therefore it is important to gain a more
      complete understanding of cowbird reproduction. We have used DNA
    polymorphisms to study genetic relationships among cowbirds within a
   defined study area. This study is being conducted in collaboration with
    federal Fish and Wildlife researchers at the Patuxent Wildlife Center
   in Laurel Maryland. The genetic markers developed at LANL are making it
    possible to determine how many different nests a single adult female
     cowbird is capable of parasitizing and over how large a geographic
   area. This information will be important for determining the extent of
    deleterious effect that cowbirds exert upon endangered host species.

              Miniature Flow Cytometer (MiniFCM) Project (DoD)

                Principal Investigator: Gary C. Salzman, LS-5

      Co-Investigators: Cheryl Lemanski, LS-5; George Saunders, BioFor
     Associates; John Martin, LS-5; Bill Bentley, NIS-9; Clayton Smith,
   P-21; Carolyn Briles, P-21; Kerry Wilson, P-21; Matthew Martinez, P-21;
    Jeff Bradley, P-21; Dan Neagley, P-21; David Beck, P-21; David Clark,
      P-21; Robbie Feuerherd, ComForce; and Jurgen Feuerherd, ComForce

       This project is focused on the development of a miniature flow
   cytometer for use in the Army's Biological Integrated Detection System,
   which is designed to warn troops of an attack with biological aerosols.
   The MiniFCM weighs 60 lbs., consumes 50 W of power and occupies a space
   of 12" x 19" x 19". Laser excitation is at 532 nm. The MiniFCM measures
    two angles of forward scattering and two colors of fluorescence. DNA
      dyes are used to label liquid samples and the MiniFCM determines
     whether or not cells and/or spores are present in 120 seconds. The
   MiniFCM is self-contained. The instrument is undergoing extensive field
    testing in May 1998 and will be fielded with an Army company later in
                                  the year.
     __________________________________________________________________

                  Life Sciences Division | LANL | DOE | UC
                         Phone Book | Search | Help

         L O S  A L A M O S   N A T I O N A L   L A B O R A T O R Y
      Operated by the University of California for the US Department of
                                   Energy

   lswebmaster@lanl.gov - Copyright © UC 1998 - Disclaimer - 09 November
                                    1998
