http://www.best.usgs.gov/links.htm

   Programs

   The US Fish and Wildlife Service' Division of Environmental Quality
   (DEQ) is involved with studying contaminant effects on fish and
   wildlife throughout the Nation.

   Alaska Marine Mammal Tissue Archival Project (Alaska Biological Science
   Center) This objective of this project is to collect tissue samples
   from Alaska marine mammals and to store these samples for future
   analysis of environmental contaminants.

   The Long Term Resource Monitoring Program was established to determine
   resource trends and impacts, to the Upper Mississippi River System.
   They also  develop management alternatives and  useful products needed
   to maintain the System as a viable multiple-use large river ecosystem.

   The American Bird Conservancy (ABC) Pesticide and Birds Campaign
   provides information on pesticides that have been linked to avian
   mortality incidents.

   Gap Analysis Program (GAP) The GAP Program provides regional
   assessments of the conservation status of native vertebrate species and
   natural land cover types and to facilitate the application of this
   information to land management activities.

   The National Stream Quality Accounting Network (NASQAN)  monitors the
   water quality of four of the Nation's largest river systems
   (Mississippi, Columbia, Colorado, and the Rio Grande River Basins).
   NASQAN focuses on the concentrations of a broad range of chemicals,
   including pesticides and trace elements.

   National Water-Quality Assessment (NAWQA) Program  NAWQA is designed to
   assess the status and trends in the quality of the Nation's groundwater
   and surface water resources and to provide a sound understanding of the
   natural and human factors that affect the quality of these resources.

   The Toxic Substances Hydrology Program provides unbiased, scientific
   information needed to improve characterization and management of
   contaminated sites, to protect human and environmental health, and to
   reduce potential future contamination problems.

   Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP)  EMAP is a
   research program of the USEPA that develops the  tools that are
   necessary to monitor and assess the status and trends of national
   ecological resources.

   USEPA EMAP - National Coastal Assessment  applies the monitoring and
   assessment tools of EMAP to describe the current ecological condition
   of estuaries throughout the US.

   USEPA EMAP - Western Pilot Study Applies the monitoring and assessment
   tools of EMAP to emerging and practical problems of the western US.

   U.S. EPA Great Lakes Monitoring Program is dedicated to communicating
   information about the Great Lakes ecosystem and the human health,
   monitoring, and sediment issues present there.

   The National Estuary Program (NEP) was established to identify,
   restore, and protect nationally significant estuaries of the United
   States.

   Lower Columbia River Estuary Program (LCREP)  Efforts by LCREP are
   directed to develop actions necessary to preserve and enhance the water
   quality of the Lower Columbia River while supporting its biological and
   human communities.

   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations National Status and
   Trends (NS&T) Program The NS&T Program is designed to determine the
   current status and to detect changes in the environmental quality of
   our Nation's estuarine and coastal waters.

   The National Atmospheric Deposition Program is a Nationwide network
   designed to collect data on the chemistry of precipitation for
   monitoring of geographical and temporal long-term trends.

   [img24.gif]

   Tools/Information

   Units Converter

   This is a powerful unit conversion tool with length, area, volume,
   pressure etc.

   Better Assessment Science Integrating Point and Nonpoint Sources
   (BASINS)

   A GIS software package designed to assess point and nonpoint
   contaminant sources  based on watersheds.

   Wildlife Exposure Factors Handbook

   This online document provides data, references, and guidance for
   conducting exposure assessments for wildlife species exposed to toxic
   chemicals in their environment.

   EPA's Surf Your Watershed This service links numerous databases for
   information on watersheds throughout the US.

   Environmental Contaminants Encyclopedia

   This tool provides  quick access to information about 118 environmental
   toxicology elements, compounds, and products.

   [img4.gif]

   [img5.gif]

   [img6.gif]

   BEST Home

   About BEST

   What's New

   Projects

   Data & Products

   Related Links

   Contacts

   Related Links

   [img23.gif]

   Programs
   Databases
