http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1566/0.pdf

   IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   CIRCUIT UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, )) Plaintiff-Appellee, )) v. ) No.
   00-5212 ) MICROSOFT CORPORATION )) Defendant-Appellant. ))
   -----------------------------------)) STATE OF NEW YORK, et al., ))
   Plaintiffs-Appellees, )) v. ) No. 00-5213 ) MICROSOFT CORPORATION ))
   Defendant-Appellant. ) MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMICUS BRIEF BY CARL
   LUNDGREN 1. Interest of the Amicus Curiae. Carl Lundgren is the author
   and inventor of a new economic method for preventing collusion, which
   is described in the published academic paper, "Using Relative Profit
   Incentives to Prevent Collusion," (Review of Industrial Organization,
   Volume 11, Number 4, August 1996, pp. 533-550). Carl Lundgren is also
   the sole proprietor of Valmarpro Antitrust, which is a business
   established by Carl Lundgren to exploit the value of an economic
   invention (patent pending) for preventing collusion between business
   firms. 2. Prior Contact with the Parties and District Court. On
   December 2, 1999 Carl Lundgren mailed, "An Open Letter to All Parties
   in the Microsoft Antitrust Mediation Process," which proposed a remedy
   for the Microsoft case that involves use of the Lundgren economic
   method for preventing collusion. On April 25, 2000 Carl Lundgren filed
   with the District Court a "Request to File a Friend of the Court Brief
   on Behalf of Valmarpro Antitrust" along with a "Brief Amicus Curiae of
   Valmarpro Antitrust on Behalf of an Alternative Remedy for Microsoft
   Based on Using Relative Profit Incentives" (filing denied, no reasons
   given). On May 17, 2000 Carl Lundgren filed with the District Court a
   "Motion by Valmarpro Antitrust to Intervene as an Independent Third
   Party" (motion denied, no reasons given). 3. Nature of the Amicus Brief
   to Be Filed. I propose to file an amicus brief to discuss the need for
   more extensive remedy hearings, including the need to admit third
   parties with alternative remedy proposals. I do not propose to file any
   arguments either favoring or opposing the findings of fact or
   conclusions of law adopted by the District Court. The brief is intended
   to address a perceived procedural error of the District Court, in
   failing to provide remedy hearings of sufficient scope, independence,
   and competency to arrive at a sound judgement concerning the most
   appropriate remedy. 4. Nature of Antitrust Remedies. An antitrust
   remedy is not a punishment, nor is it a payment of damages, for past
   wrong- doing. Rather, it is a regulatory apparatus which is adopted by
   2 the Court for the various forward-looking purposes of terminating
   unlawful conduct, preventing the repetition of unlawful conduct,
   reviving competition in the relevant markets, and preventing the
   enjoyment of unlawfully obtained monopoly power. The regulatory
   apparatus requires care in its formulation, to determine whether it
   achieves the objectives to be sought, and that it does so with maximum
   net benefit (benefits net of costs, all benefits and costs considered,
   including costs and benefits to third parties and the public at large),
   subject to the constraints of equity and legality. 5. The Choice of
   Remedy Is Not Simply a Dispute Between Two Parties. The choice of
   remedy has repercussions, not simply for Microsoft, but for the
   computer industry as a whole and the economy as a whole. The choice of
   remedies is not simply a private dispute between Microsoft and the
   government, but involves a choice among multiple possible solutions,
   affecting multiple interests. The remedy stage of an antitrust case is
   more like a regulatory matter, and less like an adversarial proceeding.
   Regulatory proceedings frequently admit multiple parties. Restricting
   the remedy phase of trial to only two parties (Microsoft and
   government) is not an effective way to ascertain the best remedy. 6.
   Status of Proposed Amicus Brief. The proposed amicus brief is neither
   pro-government nor pro-Microsoft, but is instead an independent brief
   supporting more extensive remedy hearings. The brief would be
   "pro-government" only in the limited sense 3 that the need for a remedy
   pre-supposes that there were antitrust violations by Microsoft
   Corporation. The brief would be "pro- Microsoft" only in the limited
   sense that Microsoft may have a procedural interest in delay, or may
   prefer to "gamble" that a more extensive remedies hearing may yield an
   outcome more favorable to itself. 7. Proposed Deadlines for Filing.
   Since the proposed amicus brief is neither pro-government nor
   pro-Microsoft, I propose a filing date that is exactly midway between
   the filing dates for pro-Microsoft briefs and pro-government briefs.
   This proposed filing date is December 20, 2000. This date would give
   Microsoft plenty of time to respond to any points raised. The
   government would likewise have plenty of time to respond, since any
   points raised in the brief would pertain only to the government's
   proposed remedy and the District Court's remedy hearing procedures; the
   government's legal victory regarding findings of fact and conclusions
   of law would not be jeopardized by the proposed amicus brief. I stand
   ready to meet any alternative deadline which may be imposed by the
   Court. 8. Attorneys on Brief to Be Determined. I only recently
   ascertained that an attorney would be needed to file an amicus brief
   before the Appeals Court. I will attempt to procure an attorney for the
   purpose of filing an amicus brief by the proposed deadline, or by such
   other deadline as may be imposed by the Court. 9. Motion Revised to
   Obtain Filing Rights. I originally 4 filed this motion under the title
   of "Notice of Intent to File an Amicus Brief by Valmarpro Antitrust."
   However, I was advised by Deputy Clerk John Haley that I could not file
   a notice of intent without consent of all parties, but should instead
   file a motion for leave. He also advised that I could not file the
   motion as a business without an attorney, but that I could file a
   motion pro se as an individual. This raises the interesting
   Constitutional question of why a business does not have the same right
   as an individual to petition the Court for a redress of grievances, and
   to do so without an attorney. The substance of my filing remains the
   same. Respectfully submitted. ___________________________________ Carl
   Lundgren Valmarpro Antitrust 5035 South 25th Street Arlington, VA
   22206-1057 (703) 933-1967 (home) (703) 235-1910 (work)
   Lundgren@valmarpro.com (E-mail) Dated: October 25, 2000 5 CERTIFICATE
   OF SERVICE Service of the foregoing was made by sending a copy thereof,
   in a sealed envelope, postage fully prepaid, addressed to: Bradley P.
   Smith Sullivan & Cromwell 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., 8th Floor
   Washington, DC 20006 John L. Warden Sullivan & Cromwell 125 Broad
   Street New York, NY 10004-2498 William H. Neukom, Sr. Vice President
   Law & Corporate Affairs Microsoft Corporation One Microsoft Way
   Redmond, WA 98052-8300 A. Douglas Melamed Antitrust Division U.S.
   Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC
   20530 Phillip R. Malone Antitrust Division Chief U.S. Department of
   Justice 325 Seventh Street, N.W., Suite 615 Washington, DC 20530
   Catherine G. O'Sullivan Appellate Section U.S. Department of Justice
   601 D Street, N.W., Room 10536 Washington, DC 20530 Richard L. Schwartz
   Deputy Chief, Antitrust Bureau New York State Attorney General's Office
   120 Broadway, Suite 2601 New York, NY 10271-0332 Kevin J. O'Connor
   Wisconsin Attorney General's Office 123 West Washington Avenue Madison,
   WI 53703-7957 Christine Rosso Chief, Antitrust Bureau Illinois Attorney
   General's Office 100 West Randolph Street, 13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601
   and deposited in the United States Mail by the undersigned this 25th
   day of October, 2000. ___________________________________ Carl Lundgren
