http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/eharchive/01/may/pollution.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
    Where you are:   For News Media  :   EOS Highlights Archive  :   Year
                        2001  :   May  :   Pollution
           Earth Observering System Project Science Office Banner

   May 30, 2001

   RELEASE: 01-102

   NEW NASA/CSA MONITOR PROVIDES GLOBAL AIR POLLUTION VIEW FROM SPACE
   Envelope Icon Tell a friend about this press release

   The most complete view ever assembled of the world's air pollution
   churning through the atmosphere, crossing continents and oceans, has
   been produced by NASA's Terra spacecraft. For the first time,
   policymakers and scientists now have a way to identify the major
   sources of air pollution and can closely track where the pollution
   goes, anywhere on Earth.

   The new global air pollution monitor onboard Terra is the innovative
   Measurements of Pollution in the Troposphere, or MOPITT experiment,
   which was contributed to the Terra mission by the Canadian Space
   Agency. The instrument was developed by Canadian scientists at the
   University of Toronto and built by COM DEV International of Cambridge,
   Ontario. The data was processed by a team at the U.S. National Center
   for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). MOPITT is making the first long-term
   global observations of the air pollutant carbon monoxide as Terra
   circles the Earth from pole to pole, 16 times every day.

   "With these new observations you clearly see that air pollution is much
   more than a local problem. It's a global issue," said John Gille,
   MOPITT principal investigator at NCAR in Boulder, CO. "Much of the air
   pollution that humans generate comes from natural sources such as large
   fires that travel great distances and affects areas far from the
   source."

   The first MOPITT observations are being released at the annual American
   Geophysical Union spring meeting in Boston, MA.

   The most dramatic features, taken from last year from March to
   December, are the immense clouds of carbon monoxide from grassland and
   forest fires in Africa and South America. The plumes slowly travel
   across the Southern Hemisphere as far as Australia during the dry
   season in this part of the world.

   Gille was surprised to discover a strong source of carbon monoxide in
   Southeast Asia. The air pollution plume from this region moves over the
   Pacific Ocean and reaches North America, frequently at fairly high
   concentrations, according to Gille. While fires are the major
   contributor to these carbon monoxide plumes, he suspects, at times,
   industrial sources may also be a factor.

   "The MOPITT observations represent a powerful new tool for identifying
   and quantifying pollution sources and for observing the transport of
   pollution on international and global scales," said atmospheric chemist
   Daniel J. Jacob, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, who used MOPITT
   data this spring in a major field campaign to study air pollution from
   Asia. "Such information will help us improve our understanding of the
   linkages between air pollution and global environmental change, and it
   will likely play a pivotal role in the development of international
   environmental policy."

   MOPITT also captured the extensive air pollution generated by the
   forest fires in the western United States last summer. A major source
   of air pollution during the wintertime in the Northern Hemisphere is
   the burning of fossils fuels for home heating and transportation, which
   can be seen wafting across much of hemisphere.

   Although MOPITT cannot distinguish between individual industrial
   sources in the same city, it can map different sources that cover a few
   hundred square miles. This is accurate enough to differentiate air
   pollution from a major metropolitan area, for example, from a major
   fire in a national forest. About half of the global emissions of carbon
   monoxide are caused by human activities.

   Carbon monoxide is not only a hazardous air pollutant itself, it is
   also a chemical compound that produces ozone, a greenhouse gas that is
   a human health hazard. MOPITT sees carbon monoxide in the atmosphere
   from 2 to 3 miles above the surface, where it interacts with other
   gases and forms ozone. This pollutant can move upward to altitudes
   where it can be blown rapidly for great distances or it can move
   downward to the surface.

   Carbon monoxide is a byproduct of the incomplete burning of fossil
   fuels by cars, industry, and home heating and the burning of natural
   organic matter such as wood. By tracking plumes of carbon monoxide,
   scientists are able to track the movements of other pollutants such as
   nitrogen oxides that are also produced by the same combustion processes
   but cannot be directly detected from space.

   Animations and images of the first results from MOPITT are available
   at: http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/gsfc/earth/terra/co.htm

   Contacts:

   David E. Steitz
   Headquarters, Washington, DC
   (Phone: 202/358-1730)

   Lynn Chandler
   Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD
   (Phone: 301/614-5562)

   Anatta
   NCAR Media Relations/UCAR Communications,
   Boulder, CO
   (Phone: 303/497-8604)

      Home Icon HOME      Search Icon SEARCH      Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
