http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/nov98/hydro1198.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine

                  Hydroponic Strawberries Avoid Soil Pests

        Horticultrist Fumiomi Takeda checks hydroponic strawberries.

   The first recorded use of hydroponics is in one of the seven wonders of
     the ancient world: the Hanging Gardens of Babylon where, historians
    say, plants were grown in a steady stream of water. Centuries later,
   U.S. troops stationed on infertile Pacific Islands during World War II
          ate fresh fruits and vegetables produced by hydroponics.

    Hydroponicsfrom the Greek words hydro (water) and ponos (labor)is the
    science of growing plants without soil. Nutrients that plants usually
                      get from soil are added to water.

   Scientists with USDA's Agricultural Research Service successfully using
      this time-honored way of producing crops at the Appalachian Fruit
              Research Station in Kearneysville, West Virginia.

   There, they are using hydroponics to grow strawberries without soiland
                       even more, without pesticides.

                            But why hydroponics?

     "Strawberry growers worldwide fumigate the soil with methyl bromide
      before planting to control soilborne insect pests, diseases, and
    weeds," says Fumiomi Takeda, an ARS horticulturist at Kearneysville.
      "This fumigation is essential to get high yields and high-qualify
                                   fruit.

   "But with the fast-approaching ban on use of this chemical, growers are
   anxiously looking for alternatives. It is estimated that banning methyl
        bromide will cut in half the annual production of field-grown
    strawberries in California and Florida, our major producing states."

   But growing strawberries hydroponically eliminates the need for methyl
                            bromide on this crop.

    As for foliage pests, Takeda says, "Two-spotted spider mites, thrips,
      and powdery mildew were the major problems we encountered in our
     greenhouse production of strawberries. We used beneficial predatory
    mites to control the thrips and two-spotted mites. The mildew problem
   can be resolved by moderating the humidity level in the greenhouse and
        by growing varieties that resist mildew infection," he says.

     In the Kearneysville greenhouse, Takeda grew strawberries in round
   pots, vertically stacked square pots, and horizontal troughs similar to
       rain gutters. [See "Trading Wastewater for Crops," Agricultural
                    Research, February 1995, pp. 10-11.]

    He used both established plants and runner tips from greenhouse-grown
    Chandler and Camarosa, strawberry varieties developed in California;
       Sweet Charlie, developed in Florida; and Tribute and Primetime,
   developed by ARS in Beltsville, Maryland. He also included freshly dug
      Canadian nursery plants of Chandler, Camarosa, and Sweet Charlie.

   "We controlled temperatures at 68^oF during the day and 57^oF at night,
    and we preconditioned transplants for 150 degree-hours of chilling at
       or below 45^oF. Combining this with the natural photoperiod and
    supplemental lights during overcast days produced plants that yielded
                   lots of good-sized fruit," Takeda says.

    Camarosa proved to be the most productive variety. "We picked over 2
     pounds of marketable strawberries from each Camarosa plant," Takeda
    reports. In soil fumigated with methyl bromide, Camarosa and Chandler
            will each yield over 2 pounds of high-quality fruit.

   In late August 1997, Takeda set runner tips in bedding plant containers
      with peat mixture to produce "plug" plants. He misted the plants
   intermittently until they had well-developed roots. On October 1, plug
     plants and fresh-dug plants shipped from Canada were placed in the
                         hydroponic growing systems.

         Takeda subjected plants in troughs to a continuous flow of
         recirculating nutrient solution. He fed the plants in pots
     intermittently with a nutrient solution and also transplanted plug
                   plants to pots stacked to form towers.

   "We harvested ripe fruit twice a week from December to May, the period
   when shipments of California strawberries slow down. Fruit quality and
                       taste were excellent," he says.

      Transplants or plug plants produced more fruit than field-nursery
    plants. According to Takeda, the root system of both types of plants
    remained healthy throughout the 7- to 8-month growing period, with no
    appearance of root diseases. However, in the stacked-pot towers, the
     top sections got more light and therefore bore healthier plants and
                                 more fruit.

     Light intensity greatly affects strawberry growth and development.
     Since light levels reaching the plants at the lower section of the
      towers were only 20 percent of levels measured at the top, fruit
                           production was reduced.

    "Slightly taller pots spaced farther apart on the towers would reduce
                         this problem," says Takeda.

    Bruce Pape, an organic grower of herbs and ornamentals on Maryland's
    Eastern Shore, has been experimenting with pot-grown strawberries as
    ornamental plants. "We have some specialty market outlets that would
    probably be able to sell ornamental strawberry plants quite well," he
     says. "Consumers would not only get a beautiful ornamental hanging
    basket, but a way to grow a few strawberries in the winter months as
       well." Pape and his wife Carmen have experimented with several
                            strawberry varieties.

   Hydroponic systems reduce space requirements and growing time needed to
       produce a crop. Since there is no soil involved, no tillage is
       necessaryand there are no weeds to contend with. The amount of
    chemicals needed is reduced, since biocontrol measures work better in
    the controlled environment of a greenhouse and there are fewer pests.

    Environmental factors aren't a problem in greenhouses since lighting,
   temperature, humidity, and irrigation can be controlled. Nutrients used
        for plant growth are recyclable, to be used again and again.

   Using hydroponics also reduces the cost and increases the efficiency of
     labor. Field-harvesting strawberries involves back-breaking labor,
      since laborers must stoop to pick the crop. Hydroponically grown
             berries can be harvested from a standing position.

   "Although initial set-up costs for hydroponic farming are high, growers
    may recoup that cost by producing a higher value product, increasing
    yields, and spending less money to control pests and diseases," says
      Takeda. "Our research demonstrated that two California strawberry
       varieties can be grown by soilless means. However, we need more
    research to measure the performance of other strawberry varieties and
    to investigate the influence of plant type--plug, fresh-dug, dormant,
      or single or multiple crownas well as planting dates."--By Doris
          Stanley, Agricultural Research Service Information Staff.

    Fumiomi Takeda is at the USDA-ARS Appalachian Fruit Research Station,
    45 Wiltshire Rd., Kearneysville, WV 25430-9425; phone (304) 725-3451,
                        ext. 212, fax (304) 728-2340.

       "Hydroponic Strawberries Avoid Soil Pests" was published in the
    November 1998 issue of Agricultural Research magazine. Click here to
                     see this issue's table of contents.

                   Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

         Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
         About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
