http://www.busdev.wa.gov/welcome/econoverview.asp



   BUSINESS LEADERS TESTIMONIES MEET OUR GOVERNOR CONTACT US OUR PARTNERS
   WEB SITE STRUCTURE MEET OUR TEAM
   Washington State Community Trade and Economic Development - Business
   Development
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   [img_template_line.gif] Contact Us
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   Business Development [img_template_page_title.gif]
   [img_template_curve_tail.gif]
   [img_template_r05_c1.gif]

   Go to Prinatable Page  Go to Printable Page
   • Business Retention
     & Expansion
   • Economic Overview
   • Education
   • Industry Associations
   • International Trade
   • Job Skills Training
   • Quality of Life
   • Tax / Incentives
   • Transportation
   • Workforce
   • How to use Washington
     State Resources

Economic Overview

     State capitol: Olympia
     Area: 66,582 square miles
     Population, 2001: 5,974,900
     Labor Force, 2001: 3,094,900

   Washington, also known as the Evergreen State, leads the Pacific
   Northwest region in business vitality. Formerly known for its
   agricultural and forestry products, Washington has developed a highly
   diversified economy since the early 1990s. Expansion in the machinery,
   electronics high technology and biotechnology industries have broadened
   the manufacturing base. At the same time, growth in the service sector
   has reduced the state's sensitivity to cyclical changes in
   manufacturing demand.

   Washington's economy has continued to steadily diversify over the past
   two decades resulting in a healthy climate for business investment, as
   well as creating markets for a wide array of products and services. The
   expansion of the state's manufacturing base and growth in the service
   sector has greatly reduced Washington's sensitivity to cyclical changes
   in manufacturing demand. Since a single industry no longer dominates
   the economy, fluctuations in specific sectors have less dramatic
   effects on the cumulative state economy.

   Washington's economy has experienced major structural changes.
   Employment has declined in traditional industries like agriculture,
   lumber and wood products, and mining, while sharp increases have
   occurred in electronic instruments, machinery, and wholesale and retail
   trade.

Labor Force

   With a labor force of over three million, Washington has an extensive
   supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers. Compared to figures
   nationally, Washington's labor force consistently ranks in the top five
   in terms of education, productivity, and experience. The level of
   education and skills in Washington workers is reflected in the job
   growth rate of high-skilled professions. In the past four years, 40
   percent of this state's job growth has occurred in industries where
   half or more of the workforce is classified as highly skilled. The
   labor force is expected to grow 1.5 percent per year between 2000 and
   2010, while the national labor force growth rate is estimated at 1.1
   percent.

Cost of Living

   Washington has maintained a stable tax structure. Living expenses are
   quite low for grocery items, utilities, transportation, recreational
   activities and most forms of housing. Citizens are well served by
   state, county, and city governments.

Housing Market

   Washington offers affordable housing for all income levels. Newcomers
   experience a variety of choices in housing from rural settings to small
   cities to modern suburbs to large metropolitan areas. Each area offers
   its own unique and interesting residential environment ranging from
   farmhouses and quiet established neighborhoods to modern developments
   and innovative downtown homes.

Median Sales Price for a Single-Family Home - June 1999


Bellingham

                                                                          $143,100

Seattle

                                                                          $233,000

Spokane

                                                                          $105,300

Tri-Cities

                                                                          $110,200

Vancouver

                                                                          $139,900

Yakima

                                                                          $106,000

Washington's Largest Employers

   Washington's economy ranks among the most diverse in the nation. A
   review of the ten highest-ranking public companies in Washington State
   gives clear evidence of the strength of the area's employment mix.

Source: Puget Sound Business Journal 1999 Book of Lists

                                   Ranking

   Organization
   Type of Business

                                      1

   The Boeing Company Aerospace and Defense

                                      2

   Costco Company Membership Warehouses

                                      3

   Microsoft Software Development

                                      4

   Weyerhaeuser Company Natural Resources and Forest Products Industry

                                      5

   Washington Mutual Inc. Financial Services

                                      6

   Paccar Inc. Truck Manufacturing and Financial Services

                                      7

   Nordstrom Inc. Department Stores

                                      8

   Safeco Corporation Financial Services

                                      9

   Airborne Freight Corp. Air Freight Forwarding and Air Express Services

                                     10

   Quality Food Centers Inc. Grocery Stores
   Access Washington - Washington State Government Information Services
   [img_template_r07_c2.gif]

   Access Washington - Washington State Government Information Services
   [img_template_r7_c05.gif]
   HOME     BUSINESS LEADER TESTIMONIALS     MEET OUR GOVERNOR
   CONTACT US     OUR PARTNERS     WEB SITE STRUCTURE     MEET OUR TEAM

   SEARCH     OTED HOME PAGE     TEXT VERSION     ACCESS WASHINGTON
   [img_template_r8_c01.gif]
   • SEARCH • • OTED HOME PAGE • • TEXT VERSION •
