http://www.phila.gov/tos/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Welcome to Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia City at Your Service Home Page Link
   Philadelphia Residents Page Link Philadelphia Business Page Link
   Philadelphia Visitors Page Link

[clearpixel.gif]

                                    Copyright© City Of Philadelphia 2001.  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
[clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                 TERMS OF USE AND DISCLAIMER

                 PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS OF USE AND DISCLAIMER CAREFULLY BEFORE
   USING THIS WEB SITE. BY ACCESSING OR USING THE SITE, YOU AGREE TO THE
   DISCLAIMER AND ALL OTHER TERMS PROVIDED BELOW. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
   THE DISCLAIMER AND ALL OF THESE TERMS, DO NOT ACCESS OR USE THIS SITE.

   Disclaimer

   The City of Philadelphia (City) makes no warranty or representation,
   express or implied, with respect to the quality, content, accuracy,
   completeness, currency, freedom from computer virus, or
   non-infringement of proprietary rights, of any of the design,
   information, text, graphics, images, pages, interfaces, links,
   software, or other materials and items contained in or displayed on
   this site. All such items and materials are provided on an "as is"
   basis, and you are fully and solely responsible for your use of them
   and for any results or consequences of your use. They have been
   compiled from a variety of sources, including sources beyond the
   control of the City of Philadelphia, and are subject to change without
   notice from the City. Commercial use is prohibited without the prior
   written permission of the City. In no event shall the City or its
   agencies, officers, employees, agents, or representatives be liable for
   any direct, indirect, special, punitive, incidental, exemplary or
   consequential damages arising your accessing or using the site, or
   otherwise arising from the site or from anything contained in or
   displayed on the site.  Nothing contained in or displayed on this site
   constitutes or is intended to constitute legal advice by the City or
   any of its agencies, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, or
   representatives.

   External Sites

   This site may contain links to other sites on the Internet that are
   operated by parties other than the City. The City is not responsible
   for the content of any such external site, or for the availability of
   the site or its content. If you have questions or concerns regarding
   the content of any of these external sites, you should contact the site
   administrator directly.

   Copyright, Trademarks and Servicemarks

   Servicemarks and trademarks contained in or displayed on the site, and
   the contents of linked sites operated by third parties, are the
   property of their respective owners. All other design, information,
   text, graphics, images, pages, interfaces, links, software, and other
   items and materials contained in or displayed on this site, and the
   selection and arrangements thereof, are the property of the City of
   Philadelphia. All rights are reserved. Permission is granted to
   residents and citizens of the City of Philadelphia to copy
   electronically and to print single pages from the site for the sole
   purpose of sharing information on the site with other citizens and
   residents, and on the condition that the pages are copied, printed, and
   shared without cost to the recipients and exactly as presented on the
   site, without any addition or modification.  Distribution, or
   republication in any other form or for any other purpose, including any
   commercial purpose or use, and any modification whatsoever, are
   strictly prohibited without the prior written permission of the City.

   Communications Through The Site

   In no event shall any communication made through this site's e-mail and
   messaging functions constitute legal notice to the City, or to any of
   its agencies, officers, employees, agents, or representatives
   (including but not limited to legal notice required by federal, state,
   or local laws, rules, or regulations) with respect to any existing or
   potential claim or cause of action against the City or any of its
   agencies, officers, employees, agents, or representatives.

   Miscellaneous

   The foregoing terms and conditions and all disputes arising under them
   shall be governed, construed and decided in accordance with the laws of
   the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The City reserves the right to revise
   and otherwise change the foregoing terms and conditions at anytime and
   without notice.
