http://egov.gov/faqs.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map


   Related Links

   Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance

   GSA Federal Supply Schedule

   Interagency Acquisition Internet Council (IAIC)

   Secretariat for Federal EDI Standards

   Secretariat for Data Interchange Standards Association

   GSA FTS Center for Smart Card Solutions

   Frequently Asked Questions

   I am searching for government grant money to finance a new business, a
   non-profit group or business enterprise. How do I go about finding
   available grants?

   A good place to start for grant information is the Catalog of Federal
   Domestic Assistance. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)
   is a government-wide compendium of Federal programs, projects,
   services, and activities that provide assistance or benefits to the
   American public. It contains financial and non-financial assistance
   programs administered by departments and establishments of the Federal
   government. Search for the type of grant that best meets your needs.

   For more information, visit www.gsa.gov/fdac.

   I am interested in becoming a vendor for the agencies that use
   Electronic Commerce to conduct business. Where can I find more
   information?

   Vendors interested in providing products or services to the Federal
   government should learn more about the General Services
   Administration's Federal Supply Schedule. Under the schedule program,
   GSA enters into contracts with commercial firms to provide supplies and
   services at stated prices for given periods of time. Orders are placed
   directly with the schedule contractor, and deliveries are made directly
   to the customer.

   For more information, visit http://pub.fss.gsa.gov/schedules/ .

   What is the Interagency Acquisition Internet Council (IAIC)?

   Purpose:
   The Interagency Council seeks to promote ways to optimize use of the
   Internet, streamline the Federal acquisition process, and increase
   communications of Federal acquisition related information to private
   industry and Federal managers that will result in:
     * Making Federal acquisition programs, despite workforce reductions,
       more friendly and accessible

     * Establishing a single face to industry

     * Reducing paperwork

     * Shortening the acquisition cycle

     * Increasing competition

   For more information, contact Delia Davis at (202) 208-3692, or by
   email at delia.davis@gsa.gov.

   What is the Secretariat for Federal EDI?

   The federal government is committed to the use of national and
   international standards in the exchange of data with industry partners.

   Each year the Federal government sends out hundreds of millions of EDI
   transactions. The Federal EDI Standards Management Coordinating
   Committee is an interagency committee helping to harmonize federal
   adoption of those EDI standards by coming to consensus on Federal
   Implementation Conventions. The support for a centralized Federal EDI
   standards management structure allows standards to be implemented in a
   coordinated, cost-effective way to minimize the impact on industry and
   ensure interoperability.

   For more information, visit http://snad.ncsl.nist.gov/fededi/, or
   contact Teresa Sorrenti at (703) 305-6514, or by e-mail at
   teresa.sorrenti@gsa.gov.

           Home | Privacy & Security | About Us | Staff | Site Map
                  Contact Us | Search | Privacy Information

   Accessibility 08/13/2001 OGP-CIO
