http://www.hhs.gov/about/bios/depsec.html

                                                   skip navigational links

   HHS bird logo U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
   Search News Agencies Opportunities About Us Related Sites

                               Claude A. Allen
                Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services

   Claude A. Allen was confirmed by the Senate as the Deputy Secretary for
   the Department of Health and Human Services on May 26, 2001.

   HHS is the federal government's principal agency for protecting the
   health of all Americans and providing essential human services,
   especially for those who are least able to help themselves. The
   department includes some 300 programs, covering a wide spectrum of
   activities, including medical and social science research, preventing
   outbreak of infectious disease, assuring food and drug safety, Medicare
   and Medicaid, financial assistance for low-income families, Head Start,
   substance abuse treatment and prevention and services for older
   Americans. The department's budget in fiscal year 2001 is $429 billion.

   As Deputy Secretary, Allen works closely with HHS Secretary Tommy G.
   Thompson on all major policy and management issues, and he serves as
   the department's chief operating officer.

   Prior to joining HHS, Allen was Secretary of Health and Human Resources
   for the Commonwealth of Virginia, leading 13 agencies and 15,000
   employees. Allen led Governor Gilmore's initiative for Virginia's new
   Patients Bill of Rights passed in 1999, allowing patient appeals for
   adverse coverage decisions made by health plans, and direct access to
   physician specialists. Allen also spearheaded Virginia's welfare reform
   initiative and provided leadership to overhaul the state's mental
   health institutions and community services. Additionally, Allen was
   responsible for implementing the Governor's private health insurance
   program for children and families, offering lower-cost coverage options
   to thousands of uninsured Virginians.

   Before joining the Gilmore administration, Allen was Counsel to the
   Attorney General, and later, Deputy Attorney General for the Civil
   Litigation Division in the Office of the Attorney General, Virginia. He
   reported directly to then-Attorney General Gilmore on legal,
   legislative, and policy matters, including all health, education and
   welfare issues. Before joining the Office of the Attorney General,
   Allen practiced law in Washington, D.C., specializing in government
   contracts, litigation, and legislative affairs.

   Allen holds both a Juris Doctorate and a Masters of Law in
   International and Comparative Law from Duke University Law School. He
   completed his undergraduate education at the University of North
   Carolina at Chapel Hill, earning degrees in Political Science and
   Linguistics. Allen is married to the former Jannese Mitchell and is
   father of Claude Alexander III, Lila-Cjoan, and Christian Isaiah.

        HHS Home | Topics | What's New | For Kids | FAQs | Site Info
      Disclaimers | Privacy Notice | FOIA | Accessibility | Contact Us

   Last revised: September 5, 2001
