http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov/ndeaa-pub/Brazil/JPL_NDEAA-Brazil_1999.pdf

   Invited Paper - International Symposium on Nondestructive Testing
   Contribution to the Infrastructure Safety Systems in the 21st Century -
   Torres, RS, Brazil, November 22-26, 1999, http://w3.ufsm.br/ndtiss99/
   Transition of NDEAA Related Technology to Planetary Telerobotic
   Mechanisms at JPL Yoseph Bar-Cohen JPL/Caltech, (MC 82-105), 4800 Oak
   Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109-8099 Phone 818-354-2610, Fax
   818-393-4057, yosi@jpl.nasa.gov web: http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov ABSTRACT
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is responsible for the NASA unmanned
   deep space exploration programs. In recent years, JPL has become
   increasingly involved with in-situ planetary exploration tasks where
   miniature, miser, light and inexpensive telerobotic mechanisms are
   needed. These tasks are conducted at harsh temperature and pressure
   conditions that are challenging the limits of existing technologies.
   Addressing these needs for effective NDE and advanced actuators (NDEAA)
   to support planetary systems is the objective of the R&D efforts of the
   JPL's NDEAA Technologies team. Various wave modes and electroactive
   materials are being investigated to develop devices, methodologies, and
   mechanisms to address these needs. This effort involves cooperation
   with scientists and engineers at various organizations that include
   universities, research institutes, government organizations and
   industry in the US and abroad. The team's initial effort was focused on
   the development of NDE techniques using the ultrasonic Leaky Lamb Waves
   (LLW) and Polar Backscattering. In the last 7 years, these efforts have
   evolved to development of actuation, robotics, geophysics, medicine and
   others using ultrasonics, piezoelectrics and electroactive materials.
   INTRODUCTION The JPL's NDEAA Technologies laboratory
   [http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov] was established in 1991 and started with
   emphasis on research and development of nondestructive evaluation
   technologies. The author's discovered leaky Lamb wave and polar
   backscattering phenomena in composite materials were investigated
   towards transition to practical NDE methodologies. Later, the NDEAA
   team activity has evolved to developing broad range of mechanisms and
   devices taking advantage of the acoustic or elastic waves and their
   source capabilities. These efforts cover a wide spectrum of frequencies
   and amplitudes as shown in table 1. The mechanisms and devices that are
   developed by NDEAA include ultrasonic motors and piezopumps that are
   driven by traveling flexural waves. Using a piezoelectric stack
   actuator, an ultrasonic driller and corer is being developed
   potentially applicable at high temperatures as expected on Venus and
   low temperatures as on Mars. In parallel, electroactive polymers are
   being investigated for use as actuators that are acting like muscles
   earning them the name artificial muscles. A dust wiper driven by these
   materials is being developed operating similar to an automobile
   windshield wiper but with a very simple mechanism. In addition, the
   team is also involved with the exploration of ultrasonic methods for
   medical diagnostics and treatment applications. TABLE 1: NDEAA
   technologies categorized by the acoustic and elastic wave frequency and
   amplitude range. Low amplitude High amplitude Low frequency (Hz - KHz)
   Sonotomography Actuation, drilling/coring High frequency (KHz - MHz)
   NDE & diagnostics Medical treatment 1 NONDESTRUCTIVE EVALUATION (NDE)
   METHODS Ultrasonic Oblique Insonification Techniques Two ultrasonic
   oblique insonification phenomena were discovered in composite materials
   by the author including leaky Lamb wave (LLW) [Bar-Cohen and Chimenti,
   1984] and Polar Backscattering [Bar-Cohen and Crane, 1982]. The
   phenomena are studied jointly by the author and his coinvestigators to
   establish effective NDE methods for composite materials [Bar-Cohen,
   Mal, and Lih, 1993]. The focus on composites has been the result of the
   recognition that one of the limiting factors in the widespread use of
   composites is their high cost. Composite parts are about an order of
   magnitude more expensive than metallic parts and approximately 30% of
   this cost is for inspection. This large portion of the total cost makes
   the need for effective inspection critical not only for operational
   safety but also for the cost effectiveness of these materials
   [Bar-Cohen, et al, 1991]. The polar backscattering, which was first
   observed in July 1979, found application mostly as a qualitative tool
   for the detection of such flaws as porosity. On the other hand LLW,
   which was first observed in August 1982, has been studied extensively
   towards developing a quantitative methodologies. LLW are induced by
   oblique insonification using a pitch-catch arrangement and the
   resulting modes are acquired by identifying minima in the reflected
   spectra. These modes are recorded in the form of dispersion curves,
   which are evaluated in relation to analytical data. The wave behavior
   in multi-orientation laminates was modeled and corroborated
   experimentally with high accuracy. The sensitivity of the wave to the
   elastic constants of layered materials and to the boundary conditions
   enabled the measurement of the elastic properties of bonded joints. To
   support the need for an effective data acquisition setup a LLW scanner
   (see Figure 1) was developed as a C- Scan attachment (jointly with
   QMI). In time, the LLW data acquisition experimental capability was
   significantly improved increasing the acquisition speed to the level of
   a fraction of a minute as well as greatly increasing the number of
   modes that can be identified [Bar-Cohen and Lih, 1999]. This capability
   greatly increased the accuracy of the data inversion, improved the
   capability to characterize flaws and the practicality of the technique.
   FIGURE 1: A view of the LLW scanner (bridge right side) installed on
   the JPL's C-scan system. To enhance the inversion accuracy of the
   material stiffness constants, a method was developed to acquire
   dispersion curves and display them as shown in Figure 2. This Figure is
   showing the dispersion curve for a 3.125-mm unidirectional laminate
   that was tested along the fibers. This method was found to allow
   viewing modes with amplitude levels that are 2 significantly smaller
   than observed ever before. The bright curved lines show the modes on
   the background of the reflected spectra. Using this capability the
   unidirectional laminate was also tested along the 90o polar angle. As
   can be seen in Figure 3, modes that otherwise would be considered noise
   are clearly identified. FIGURE 2: A view of the LLW dispersion curve
   for unidirectional Gr/Ep along the fibers using an imaging approach.
   FIGURE 3: A view of the dispersion curve for the laminate shown in
   Figure 2 along the 90o polar angle. Open-architecture robotic crawlers
   for NDE of aircraft structures Rapid inspection of large areas has been
   an ongoing challenge to the NDE engineering community [Bar-Cohen,
   2000]. The need for such a capability grew significantly in recent
   years as a result of the increase in the numbers of aging aircraft in
   service and of aircraft with composite primary structures. While aging
   aircraft with metallic structures are susceptible to corrosion and
   cracking, mostly near fastener areas, composites are sensitive to
   impact damage that can appear anywhere on the structure. Field
   inspection using manual scanning is labor intensive, time consuming and
   subjected to human error, whereas removal of parts from an aircraft for
   a lab test is costly and may not be practical. Effective field
   inspection requires a portable, user friendly system that can rapidly
   scan large areas of complex structures. In recent years, various
   portable inspection systems have emerged including scanners that are
   placed at selected locations and sequentially repositioned to fully
   cover the desired areas. The development of such systems followed the 3
   technology evolution and it requires integration of multidisciplinary
   expertise including NDE, telerobotics, neural networks, automated
   control, imbedded computing and materials science. The overall
   evolution has been towards full automation and there is a desire to
   have a completely autonomous inspection capability. Scanning an
   aircraft using a portable bridge configuration has been an effective
   step in addressing the need for automatic field testing capability.
   However, the constraint to covering an area only within the bounds of
   the scanner-bridge has limited the operation speed, the accessibility
   to complex areas (particularly near joint with a wing, etc.) and
   required scaffolding to allow sequential attachment of the bridge to
   different locations. Mobile scanners can greatly increase the rate of
   inspection, minimize human errors and offer flexibility of reaching
   various areas of the aircraft. These scanners need to have a controlled
   adherence capability to maintain attachment to the structure surface
   while traveling and inspecting it. Such scanners, in the form of
   crawlers, are increasingly emerging as a solution to the need for
   unconstrained mobility and dexterity while conducting automatic
   scanning. The use of suction cups has become a leading form of
   controlled adherence to aircraft surfaces and several successful
   scanners have developed in the last several years. The Automated Non
   Destructive Inspector (ANDI) and the Autocrawler are some of the more
   known mobile scanners [Bahr, 1992; Backes & Bar-Cohen, 1996; and
   Siegel, et al, 1998]. In recognition of the need to have a compact,
   more maneuverable crawler, JPL recently developed a small, highly
   dexterous crawler so-called Multifunction Automated Crawling System
   (MACS). This crawler, which is shown in Figure 4, was designed to
   perform complex scanning tasks [Backes & Bar-Cohen, 1996; and Bar-Cohen
   and Backes, 1999] taking advantage of its ability to easily turn or
   move forward and backward while being attached to a curved surface. A
   schematic view of MACS traveling and rotating while activating its legs
   and suction cups is shown in Figure 5 and from different angle views
   are shown in Figure 6. MACS employs ultrasonic motors for mobility and
   suction cups for surface adherence. It has two legs for linear motion,
   with one of the legs serving as the rotation element for turning. The
   ability to crawl on surfaces has been enabled by use of suction cup
   elements that are extended at the stage of attachment. An air pressure
   is used to eject the suction cups onto the test surface at the moment
   that the specific leg is made to adhere to the surface. Individual
   venturi pumps provide each suction cup with sufficient vacuum to assure
   effective attachment. The ability to adjust the ejection distance of
   the individual rods allows the crawler to travel on curved surfaces.
   The smallest diameter of the curved surface, which can be inspected by
   MACS, depends on the suction cups total ejection length and the size of
   the crawler platform. This mobility configuration allows performing any
   simultaneous combination of motion, including linear travel as well as
   rotation around the central axis. FIGURE 4: MACS crawling on the C-5
   aircraft [Bar-Cohen, Joffe, and Backes, 1999]. 4 The development of
   MACS was benefited from the ongoing JPL development of miniature
   planetary rovers as well as telerobotic and NDE techniques. MACS was
   developed to serve as a generic open architecture robotic platform that
   can be used for many applications, including inspection, paint removal
   and painting of ships as well as testing/maintaining aircraft. Having
   many users is expected to lead to lower cost systems that will be
   improved by a large pool of users and developers. The monitoring of
   MACS activities can be designed for local control or control via the
   Internet with password access. This crawler established the foundations
   for the development of a "walking" computer platform with standard
   plug-in NDE boards. A standard PC architecture will enable rapid
   implementation of new sensors, which can be easily integrated into the
   setup. To define the crawler functions, plug-and-play boards will need
   to be developed and thus enable a new NDE industry that can rapidly
   introduce novel products as well as transfer technology to commercial
   use. This capability will allow a larger pool of companies and
   individuals to become potential producers of NDE instruments. Thus, a
   significant cost reduction can be materialized with a rapid transition
   of novel concepts to practical use. The JPL's telerobotic program and
   extensive planetary exploration experience with rover technology can
   provide a valuable resource to this emerging and enabling technology.
   FIGURE 5: MACS crawler mobility control. Solid circles represent
   activated suction cups and hollow circles represent resting cups.
   Forward travel is shown on the left and a simultaneous travel/rotation
   is shown on the right. FIGURE 6: A photographic view of MACS from
   difference angles, where the two legs and the crawler ability to be
   attached to a curved surface are shown. 5 Ultrasonic Medical
   Diagnostics and Treatment Ultrasonic technology emerged as a medical
   diagnostic technology in the late 1960's and the field of obstetrics
   has been one of the first applications [Sunden, 1967]. The most widely
   used techniques today are pulsed echo (2.0 to 7.0 MHz) and Doppler
   imaging (2 to 4 MHz). Currently used equipment offers real-time
   imaging, where the moving fetus is viewed on a color monitor. Pulse
   echo techniques are employed with the transducer coupled either in
   contact, immersion or using a liquid delay line. To obtain instant
   images, a transducer array is used and the reflected signals are
   monitored. The sensitivity and resolution have been improved to a level
   that allows viewing of even the movements of the fetal heart, and to
   conduct accurate measurements on the monitor. Such measurements form
   the cornerstone of the assessment of fetal gestational age, size and
   health. Progressively, ultrasonics has become an indispensable tool for
   many medical diagnostic applications. It has a vital role in the
   assessment of pregnant woman, in patients with heart disease, stroke
   and disorders of the vascular system, and in imaging of other vital
   organs such as the liver, kidneys, as well as the abdomen and soft
   tissues. This capability allows the examination of atherosclerosis and
   other disease processes. The development of real-time imaging with the
   selectable combination of color hues onto shades of gray has added a
   powerful imaging capability for viewing subtle tissue details. This
   enhancement provides a better interpretation of the ultrasonic images.
   The use of 3-D imaging is being developed for volumetric measurements
   as well as to enhance image interpretation and presentation. The
   application of high power ultrasonics for medical treatment was first
   introduced as a lithotripsy tool for the dissolution of kidney stones,
   and became a practical method in the late 1970s [Segura, 1990].
   Generally, high intensity focused ultrasonic waves can be used to
   conduct various transcutaneous (through the skin) medical treatments.
   The principle that makes high intensity ultrasound an effective tool is
   the induction of shock-waves as a result of forming cavitation bubbles
   that implosively collapse. The cavitations are formed when the pressure
   associated with the wave (at the rarefaction phase) drops below the
   vapor pressure of the liquid in which the wave propagates. The
   implosion, i.e. collapse inward, of cavitation occurs mostly when the
   wave cycle turns to the compression phase and it induces shock waves.
   The larger the cavitation bubble, the more violent is its collapse, and
   the more effective its eroding effect. However, the requirement for
   large wavelengths is subject to diffraction limits causing difficulties
   in focusing the wave. The author in cooperation with QMI and Cedars
   Sinai Medical Center developed a novel Focused Modulated High Power
   Ultrasound (FMPUL) device [Grandia and Bar-Cohen, 1998]. This FMPUL
   device (shown in Figure 7) allows modulation of LF and HF forming large
   and effective cavitation in a constrained focal zone. High power
   ultrasonic waves induce a variety of effects that can be useful tools,
   including streaming which is a strong flow of the liquid, particularly
   at the focal spot (see Figure 8). Generally, ultrasound causes rapid
   and reversible damage to tissues making it attractive for various
   medical treatment requirements, including cancer. Noninvasive
   Geophysical Probing System (NGPS) The JPL's NDEAA team jointly with the
   University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) are extensively involved in
   research and development of geophysical noninvasive probing
   methodologies using surface waves. These methodologies offer the
   capability to determine properties of ground layers without a complex
   inversion algorithm or mechanism drilling. To 6 implement the
   experimental procedure, a high-frequency source and two or more
   receivers are utilized. At wavelengths greater than the thickness of
   the individual layers, the velocity of propagation is independent of
   wavelength. The shear wave velocity of the layer can be obtained using
   a complex-valued curve-fitting process with the coherence as the
   weighing function [Nazarian et al., 1993]. The actual and fitted curves
   compare quite favorably and are used to "unwrap" the phase, where the
   appropriate number of cycles is added to each phase. Then the slope of
   the line, which is basically constant with frequency, is calculated and
   is used to quantitatively characterize the tested medium. Recently, the
   team used this method to develop a method of measuring the thickness of
   coal. The accuracy of estimating the thickness of a coal layer that has
   a soil or rock substrate was demonstrated to be about 10-15% [Nazarian
   and Bar- Cohen, 1999]. Such a capability is important for the coal mine
   industry who is seeking to automate their mine harvesting process and
   thus increasing the profitability and reduce the risk to human
   operators. FIGURE 7: FMPUL transducer with center FIGURE 8: Streaming
   effect resulting from element transmitting at 20-KHz and focused the
   focusing of about 800KHz onto the surface 500KHz transmitter. of water.
   ADVANCED ACTUATORS Ultrasonic motors Efficient miniature actuators that
   are compact and consume low power are needed to drive space and
   planetary mechanisms in future NASA missions. Ultrasonic plate waves
   can be harnessed to provide actuation forces to produce ultrasonic
   motors that have the potential to meet NASA needs. Generally,
   ultrasonic motors [Wallashek, 1995] can be classified by their mode of
   operation (static or resonant), type of motion (rotary or linear) and
   shape of implementation (beam, rod, disk, etc.). Despite the
   distinctions, the fundamental principles of solid-state actuation tie
   them together: microscopic material deformations (usually associated
   with piezoelectric materials) are amplified through either quasi-static
   mechanical or dynamic/resonant means. Several of the motor classes have
   seen commercial application in areas needing compact, efficient, and
   intermittent motion. Such applications include camera auto-focus
   lenses, watch motors and compact paper handling. Obtaining the levels
   of torque-speed characteristics of 7 USMs using conventional motors
   requires adding a gear system to reduce the speed, thus increasing the
   size, mass and complexity of the drive mechanism. USMs are
   fundamentally designed to have a high holding force, providing
   effectively zero backlash. Further, since these motors are driven by
   friction the torque that would cause them to be backdriven at zero
   power is significantly higher than the stall torque. The number of
   components needed to construct ultrasonic motor is small minimizing the
   number of potential failure points. The general characteristic of USMs
   makes them attractive for robotic applications where small,
   intermittent motions are required. In Figure 9 the principle of
   operation of an ultrasonic motor (flexural traveling wave ring- type
   motor) is shown as an example. A traveling wave is established over the
   stator surface, which behaves as an elastic ring, and produces
   elliptical motion at the interface with the rotor. This elliptical
   motion of the contact surface propels the rotor and the drive-shaft
   connected to it. Teeth on the top section of the stator are intended to
   form a moment arm to amplify the speed. The operation of USM depends on
   friction at the interface between the moving rotor and stator, which is
   a key issue in the design of this interface for extended lifetime.
   FIGURE 9: Principle of operation of a rotary flexural traveling wave
   motor. The use of USMs in NASA application requires operation at harsh
   space environments that include cryogenic temperatures and vacuum and
   also require effective analytical tools for the design of efficient
   motors. To explore telerobotic applications for USMs a robotic arm was
   constructed with such motors. A finite element analytical model was
   developed to examine the excitation of flexural plate wave traveling in
   a piezoelectrically actuated rotary motor [Bar- Cohen, et al, 1998].
   The model uses 3D finite element and equivalent circuit models that are
   applied to predict the excitation frequency and modal response of the
   stator. This model incorporates the details of the stator including the
   teeth, piezoelectric ceramic, geometry, bonding layer, etc. The
   theoretical predictions were corroborated experimentally for the
   stator. In parallel, efforts have been made to determine the thermal
   and vacuum performance of these motors. Experiments have shown that the
   motor can sustain at least 230 temperature cycles from 0oC to -90oC at
   7 Torr pressure significant performance change. Also, the motor lasted
   over 334 hours at -150oC and vacuum. To examine the cause of failure,
   an ultrasonic C-scan nondestructive test was made and the
   discontinuities were imaged on the computer monitor. As anticipated,
   the bond between the stator and piezoelectric ring wafer failed. The
   continuous piezoelectric ring that drives the stator is subjected to
   thermal stresses that are aggravated by the cyclic mechanical loading
   of the motor operation leading to fatigue failure of the bond line. JPL
   is cooperation with QMI replaced the continuous ring with segmented and
   reversed piezoelectric drive (SRPD) wafers allowing to effectively
   relief the thermal and dynamic stresses at the bonding layer. 8
   Piezopump [http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov] A simulation of the wave travel
   on the stator of an ultrasonic motor it is easy to the formation of
   valleys that are traveling. Covering these valleys allows forming
   chambers that can be used as boxcars to carry liquids operating as a
   peristaltic pump. Such piezopump eliminates the need for valves or
   physically moving parts and there is a range of NASA experiments,
   instruments and applications where such miniature pumps are needed. .
   Finite element model was developed using ANSYS for the purpose of
   predicting the resonance frequency of the vibrating modes of the
   piezopump driving stator. The model allows determining simultaneously
   the mode shapes that are associated with the various resonance
   frequencies. This capability is essential for the design the pump size
   and geometry. To predict and optimize the pump efficiency that is
   determined by the volume of pumping chambers the model was modified to
   perform harmonic analysis. Current capability allows the determination
   of the effect of such design parameters as pump geometry, construction
   materials and operating modes on the volume of the chambers that are
   formed between the peaks and valleys of the waves. Experiments were
   made using a piezopump breadboard showed water-pumping rate of about
   1.8 cc/min. The pump is continually being modified to enhance the
   performance and efficiency. In Figure 10 a photograph shows a prototype
   piezopump pumping water. Water drop Piezopump FIGURE 10: A view of
   piezopump in action. Ultrasonic/Sonic Drilling/Coring (USDC) NASA's
   Mars and Solar System exploration missions are seeking to in-situ
   collect samples from the various depths of various planets. The
   environments that these instruments are expected to face range from
   cryogenic (Comets) to very hot and aggressive (Venus). Geological
   surveys from a lander or a rover require instrumented samplers to be
   placed at the end of a flexible arm or on a very-light rover. Low
   mechanical impact on the host is a major requirement for these
   samplers. Recently, a ultrasonic/sonic drilling/coring (USDC) mechanism
   was developed that potentially allows meeting key challenges of
   planetary in situ sampling [Sherrit, et al, 1999]. It requires low
   preload (<5N) and power and it was shown to drill various rocks
   including granite, where a 2.5" thick construction brick was drilled in
   5 minutes. It has a debris self-extracting mechanism via an ultrasonic
   transport up the drilling shaft. USDC is highly tolerant to
   misalignment even during drilling. The drilling/coring bit does not
   turn, thus, in-situ sensors can be integrated into the bit and also one
   can safely touch the USDC bit with one's bare hand during operation.
   The device can potentially be used as a tool for future human
   habitation on Mars or other planets and it can be tailored for
   operation in the harsh environments of various planets. The USDC uses a
   floating head mechanism, where high frequency ultrasonic vibrations
   induced by a piezoelectric stack are used to create a hammering action.
   The floating head is a 9 mechanical frequency transformer, and the
   drill bit operates with a combination of ultrasonic and sonic
   frequencies. This transformer converts the 20 kHz ultrasonic drive
   frequency to a combination of this high frequency drive signal and a
   60-1000 Hz sonic hammering action. The drilling mechanism requires the
   simultaneous presence of both frequencies. Finite element modeling and
   experiments that include drilling and coring of various types of rocks
   are currently under way. In Figure 11, the USDC is shown held from its
   power cord while drilling a brick - this is possible because relatively
   low axial preload is required. The non-criticality of alignment and the
   fact that the drilling debris is traveling along the core shaft away
   from the hole can also be easily seen in this Figure. As a result of
   the transverse and longitudinal motions involved with this drilling
   mechanism, the coring bit creates a hole that is slightly larger than
   the drill bit diameter. This reduces the chances of bit jamming if the
   integrity of the hole is maintained, thus avoiding the problem
   associated with conventional drilling. The USDC bit does not have to be
   sharp, and various drill bits can be designed to take advantage of this
   novel enabling technology. FIGURE 11: The USDC mechanism uses vibration
   to create hammering action, where relatively small preload is required
   to create a core while holding the power cord. The device has shown
   drilling-debris removal capability along the drill bit. Telepresence -
   Interactive and Intuitive Mirroring of Remote / Virtual Compliance and
   Forces For many years, the robotic community sought to develop robots
   that can eventually operate autonomously and eliminate the need for
   human operators. However, there is an increasing realization that
   humans can perform some tasks significantly better but, due to
   associated hazards, distance, physical limitations and other causes,
   only robots can be employed to perform these tasks. Remotely performing
   such tasks by operating robots as human surrogates is referred to as
   telepresence. In telepresence the operator receives sufficient
   information about the remote robot and the task environment displayed
   in a sufficiently natural way, that the operator would be able to feel
   the equivalent of physical presence at the remote site. Haptic feedback
   is necessary for a telepresence system where physical constraints such
   as object rigidity, mass and weight, friction, dynamics, surface
   characteristics (smoothness or temperature) are mirrored to the human
   operator from the remote site. Robots capability to operate as a
   surrogate human, has been recently implemented at NASA Johnson Space
   Center with the development of the novel space robot called Robonaut
   (see Figure 12) [http://tommy.jsc.nasa.gov/robonaut/Robonaut.html,
   1997]. This robot is capable of performing various tasks at remote
   sites and serve as a robotic astronaut on the International Space
   Station, providing a relatively fast response time and the ability to
   maneuver through areas too small for the current Space Station robots.
   Robonaut is developed to support high-payoff 10 EVA tasks and to
   provide "minuteman"-like responses to extra-vehicular activity (EVA)
   contingencies. The Robonaut is designed as an anthropomorphic robot,
   similar in size to a suited EVA astronaut and as a telepresence system
   that immerses the remote operator into the robot's environment. The
   robotic arms are capable of dexterous, human-like maneuvers and are
   designed to ensure safety and mission success. The robotic hands are
   designed to handle common EVA tools, to grasp irregularly shaped
   objects, and to handle a wide spectrum of tasks requiring human-like
   dexterity. Robonaut was designed so that a human operator who is
   wearing gloves/suit with sensors can control it. If the user is to
   interact in a natural way with the robot, the interface must be
   intuitive, accurate, responsive, transparent and reproducible over time
   and space. Furthermore, the operator must be able to extract
   information about the robot and its environment to effectively control
   the robot. Unfortunately, due to unavailability of force and tactile
   feedback capability in the control suit/glove, the operator determines
   the required action by visual feedback, i.e. looking at the Robonaut
   action at the remote site. This approach is ineffective and is limiting
   the potential tasks that Robonaut can perform. FIGURE 12 - Robonaut
   FIGURE 13 - Performing Remote Tasks via a Haptic Interface To address
   the need for telepresence, a haptic interfacing mechanism is required
   to allow operators to "feel" the stiffness and forces at remote or
   virtual sites (See Figure 13). For this purposed the JPL's NDEAA has
   teamed with Rutgers University investigators and conceived a system
   that is called MEMICA (remote MEchanical MIrroring using Controlled
   stiffness and Actuators) [Bar-Cohen, Pfeiffer, Mavroidis & Dolgin,
   1999.] The key aspect of the MEMICA system is a miniature Electrically
   Controlled Stiffness (ECS) element that mirrors the stiffness at
   remote/virtual sites. The ECS elements make use of Electro-Rheological
   Fluid (ERF), which is an Electro-Active Polymer (EAP), to achieve the
   feeling of remote or virtual stiffness. The ECS elements will be placed
   at selected locations of an instrumented glove to mirror the forces of
   resistance to motion at the corresponding locations of the robot hand.
   Forces applied at the robot end-effector due to a compliant environment
   will be reflected to the user with the aid of this ERF device where a
   change in the system viscosity will occur proportionally to the force
   to be transmitted. The MEMICA system also consists of Force Feedback
   Actuation Tendon (FEAT) elements, which employ other type of actuators
   to mirror forces induced by active elements at the remote or virtual
   site. 11 Electroactive Polymers Actuators - Artificial Muscles
   Biologically inspired mechanisms, such as snake robot, can be used to
   perform NDE and other tasks that are not possible with today
   technology. Such tasks include testing highly concealed areas of
   engines and aircraft fuselage and they require actuators that emulate
   biological muscles. The closest actuators that can fit this category
   are the electroactive polymers (EAP) For many years, EAP received
   relatively little attention due to the small number of available
   materials and their limited actuation capability. The recent emergence
   of EAP materials with large displacement response changed the paradigm
   of these materials and their potential capability [Bar-Cohen, 1999a].
   The most attractive feature of EAPs is their ability to emulate
   biological muscles with high toughness, large actuation strain and
   inherent vibration damping. EAP can be used to produce highly
   maneuverable, noiseless and agile, with various shapes including
   insect-like. Effective EAP offers the potential of making science
   fiction ideas a faster reality than would be feasible with any other
   conventional actuation mechanisms. Unfortunately, the force actuation
   and mechanical energy density of EAPs are relatively low, limiting the
   potential applications that can be considered at the present time. To
   overcome this limitation there is a need for development in numerous
   multidisciplinary areas from computational chemistry, comprehensive
   material science, electromechanic analysis and improved material
   processing techniques. Efforts are needed to gain a better
   understanding of the parameters that control the electromechanical
   interaction. The processes of synthesizing, fabricating, electroding,
   shaping and handling need to be refined to maximize their actuation
   capability and robustness. Under the author's lead, planetary
   applications using EAP are being explored while improving the
   understanding, practicality and robustness of these materials. EAP
   materials are sought as a substitution to conventional actuation
   components such as motors, gears, bearings, screws, etc. This research
   and development effort has been conducted since 1995 under the NASA
   task called Low Mass Muscle Actuator (LoMMAs), and the current team
   consists of JPL, NASA-LaRC, VT, Rutgers University, and ESLI having
   cooperative efforts with Osaka National Research Institute, Japan, and,
   Kobe University, Japan [Bar-Cohen, et al, 1999b]. Longitudinal and
   bending EAP are being investigated, and a dust-wiper, gripper and
   robotic arm were demonstrated [Bar-Cohen, et al, 1999c]. The dust-wiper
   (Figure 14) is currently being developed for the Nanorover's optical/IR
   window, which is part of the MUSES-CN mission. The MUSES-CN is a joint
   NASA and Japanese Space Agency mission scheduled for launch in January
   2002, from Kagoshima, Japan, to explore the surface of a small
   near-Earth asteroid. Generally, the practical application of EAP
   materials is still a great challenge. No effective and robust EAP
   material is currently available commercially. Further, there is no
   established database that documents the properties of the existing EAP
   materials. In recognition of the need for international cooperation
   among the developers, users and potential sponsors, an SPIE Conference
   was organized for the first time on March 1-2, 1999, in Newport Beach,
   California [Bar-Cohen, 1999a]. The conference was the largest ever on
   EAP, and it marked an important milestone, turning the spotlight onto
   these emerging materials and their potential. Following this success,
   an MRS conference was initiated to address fundamental issues related
   to the material science of EAP. As of 1999, the science and engineering
   community is offered two annual international conferences (SPIE and
   MRS) that are solely dedicated to the subject of EAP. The WW-EAP
   Newsletter
   (http://eis.jpl.nasa.gov/ndeaa/nasa-nde/newsltr/WW-EAP_Newsletter.PDF)
   was initiated and a homepage was formed linking worldwide EAP research
   and development websites
   (http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov/nasa-nde/lommas/eap/EAP-web.htm). Also,
   government resources 12 are being devoted at unprecedented levels to
   sponsor research in this area. The increased research and the improved
   collaboration among the developers, users and sponsors are expected to
   foster to progress at a significantly high rate. FIGURE 14: Schematic
   view of the EAP dust-wiper on the MUSES-CN's Nanorover (right) and a
   photograph of a prototype EAP dust-wiper (left). The author challenged
   the EAP community to develop robotic arms actuated by artificial
   muscles that would win an arm wrestling match with a human (Figure 15).
   Progress towards this goal will lead to great benefits, particularly in
   the medical area, including effective prosthetics. Decades from now,
   EAP may be used to replace damaged human muscles, leading to a "bionic
   human." A remarkable contribution of the EAP field would be to one day
   seeing a handicapped person jogging to the grocery store using this
   technology. FIGURE 15: Grand Challenge for the EAP Community.
   CONCLUDING REMARKS Time dependent elastic motion offer diagnostics and
   actuation capabilities. The JPL's NDEAA team have taken waves and
   transmission source and developed novel capabilities to support various
   technology areas that include space, robotics, medical, etc. Finite
   element modeling tools and experimental capabilities were developed to
   support the required design tools. Development in NDE related activity
   include the LLW, MACS, NGPS and FMPUL and 13 in areas related to
   actuation activity include USM, Piezopump, MEMICA and various
   applications of electroactive polymers. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The research at
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), California Institute of Technology,
   was carried out under a contract with National Aeronautics Space Agency
   (NASA). The author would like to thank his NDEAA team members: Dr.
   Xiaoqi Bao, Dr. Zensheu Chang, Dr. Sean Leary and Dr. Stewart Sherrit.
   Also, the author would like to thank Prof. Ajit K. Mal for his
   contributions to the NDE efforts, to Pete Grandia and Hanspeter
   Loertscher, QMI, for their assistance in producing the LLW Scanner,
   FMPUL and ultrasonic motors. Dr. Mike Lih, JPL, assisted in the area of
   LLW, USM and piezopump. The FMPUL was also produced in cooperation with
   Dr. Robert Siegel, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. The author would like
   to thank Thomas Peterson, Dharmendra Pal, Jason Kroh and Ron Krahe,
   Cybersonics, for producing USDC and the help of Dr. Benjamin Dolgin,
   JPL. The author would like to thank Prof. Constantinos Mavroidis and
   Chuck Pfeiffer of Rutgers U. and to Dr. Benjamin Dolgin, JPL, for
   assisting with the development of MEMICA. Thanks to Dr. Benjamin Joffe
   and Dr. Paul Backes for their assistance with the development of MACS.
   The Geophysical Probing effort is conducted jointly with Prof. Soheil
   Nazarian, UTEP. Thanks to the LoMMAs team Dr. Joycelyn Harrison and Dr.
   Joseph Smith, LaRC, Prof. Rick Claus, VT, Prof. Constantinos Mavroidis,
   and Charles Pfeiffer, Rutgers U., as well as Dr. Timothy Knowles, ESLI.
   Also, thanks to the former member of LoMMAs, Prof. Mohsen Shahinpoor,
   UNM. For assisting with the development of the EAP dust-wiper, the
   author would like also to express special thanks to Dr. Keisuke Oguro,
   Osaka National Research Institute, Osaka, Japan for contributing the
   most recent IPMC materials and to Satoshi Tadokoro, Kobe University,
   Kobe, Japan for analytical modeling effort. The author would like to
   acknowledge the contribution of Willem Grandia, to FMPUL, USM, and the
   LLW scanner QMI. Mr. Grandia passed away in Nov. 1998, and his
   dedication and innovation have been inspirational. REFERENCE Backes P.
   G., Y. Bar-Cohen and B. Joffe, "The Multifunction Automated Crawling
   System (MACS)," Proceedings IEEE International Conference on Robotics
   and Automation, Albuquerque, New Mexico (April 1997) pp. 335-340. Bahr
   V., "Wall-Climbing Robot in Non-Structural Environment," Transaction
   Robotics Research, Robotics International, Society of Manufacturing
   Engineering, Vol. 2 (1992), pp. 1-24. Backes P., and Y. Bar-Cohen,
   "Miniaturization Technologies for Aircraft Inspection," JPL, Pasadena,
   CA, Internal JPL Report No. D-13876, (July 1996). Bar-Cohen, Y., and R.
   L. Crane, "Acoustic-Backscattering Imaging of Subcritical Flaws in
   Composites," Materials Evaluation, Vol. 40, No. 9 (1982), pp. 970-975.
   Bar-Cohen, Y., and D.E. Chimenti, Review of Progress in Quantitative
   NDE, Vol. 3B, D. O. Thompson & D.E. Chimenti (Eds.), Plenum Press, New
   York and London (1984), pp. 1043- 1049. Bar-Cohen, Y., et al,
   "Ultrasonic Testing Applications in Advanced Materials & Processes,"
   Nondestructive Testing Handbook, Section 15 in Vol. 7: Ultrasonic
   Testing, Section 8, A. Birks and B. Green Jr. (Ed.), American Society
   for NDT, Columbus, OH (1991) pp. 514-548. Bar-Cohen, Y., A. Mal, and
   S.-S. Lih, "NDE of Composite Materials Using Ultrasonic Oblique
   Insonification, Materials Evaluation, Vol. 51, No. 11, (1993),
   pp.1285-1295. 14 Bar-Cohen Y., X. Bao, and W. Grandia, "Rotary
   Ultrasonic Motors Actuated By Traveling Flexural Waves," Proceedings of
   the SPIE International Smart Materials and Structures Conference, SPIE
   Paper No. 3329-82, San Diego, CA, 1-6 March 1998. Bar-Cohen Y.
   (Editor), Miniature Robotics and Sensing for Nondestructive Evaluation
   and Testing," Vol. 4 in the Topics on NDE Series, American Society for
   Nondestructive Testing, Columbus, OH, Submitted to ASNT, [To Be
   Published]. Bar-Cohen Y., B. Joffe and P. Backes "Multifunction
   Automated Crawling System (MACS)", U.S. Patent No. 5,890,553, April 6,
   1999. Bar-Cohen Y., and P. Backes, "Open-architecture robotic crawlers
   for NDE of aircraft structures," Materials Evaluation, Vol. 57, No. 3
   (1999) pp.361-366. Bar-Cohen, Y., (Ed.), Proceedings of the
   Electroactive Polymer Actuators and Devices, Smart Structures and
   Materials 1999, Volume 3669, pp. 1-414, (1999a). Bar-Cohen, Y., K.
   Oguro, S. Tadokoro, S. Leary, J. Harrison and J. Smith "Challenges to
   the Transition of IPMC Artificial Muscle Actuators to Practical
   Application," Proceedings of the Fall MRS Meeting, (1999b). Bar-Cohen,
   Y., S. Leary, M. Shahinpoor, J. Harrison and J. Smith, "Flexible
   Low-Mass Devices and Mechanisms Actuated by Electroactive Polymers,"
   Proceedings of the Electroactive Polymer Actuators and Devices, Smart
   Structures and Materials 1999, Volume 3669, (1999c) pp. 51-56,
   Bar-Cohen Y., Pfeiffer C., Mavroidis C. and Dolgin B., 1999, "MEMICA: A
   Concept for Reflecting Remote-Manipulator Forces", Submitted as a NASA
   New Technology Report. Submitted Provisional Patent. Also, to be
   published in NASA Technical Briefs. Bar-Cohen Y., and S.-S. Lih
   "Composite materials stiffness determination and defects
   characterization using leaky Lamb wave dispersion data." Accepted for
   publication in Materials Evaluation. Grandia W., and Y. Bar-Cohen,
   "Medical Noninvasive Operations Using Focused Modulated High Power
   Ultrasound (FMPUL)," U.S. Patent No. 5,827,204, October 27, 1998.
   Nazarian S., Baker R.B. and Crain K., "Fabrication and Testing of a
   Seismic Pavement Analyzer," Report H-375, Strategic Highway Research
   Program, Washington, DC, Dec. 1993, p. 156. Nazarian S., and Y.
   Bar-Cohen, "Coal Thickness Gauging Using Elastic Waves," Proceedings of
   the 1999 Fall ASNT Conference, Phoenix, Arizona, October 11-15, 1999.
   Segura J. W., "Role of Percutanous Procedures in the Management of
   Renal Calculi," Urologic Clinics of North America, Vol. 17, No. 1,
   (1990) pp. 207-216. Sherrit S., S. P. Leary, B. P. Dolgin, Y. Bar-Cohen
   and R. D. Tasker, "The Impedance Resonance for Piezoelectric Stacks,"
   Submitted to J. of Acoustic Society of America in February 1999. Siegel
   M., P. Gunatilake and G. Podnar, "Robotic Assistants for Aircraft
   Inspectors," IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine (March 1998)
   pp. 16-30. Sunden B., "Obstetric Diagnosis With Ultrasound," Ultrasonic
   J., (April 1967) pp. 67-71 Wallashek J., "Piezoelectric Motors," J. of
   Intelligent Materials Systems and Structures, Vol. 6, (Jan. 1995), pp.
   71-83. 15
