http://warner.senate.gov/legislation/education/educationreform.htm

   Warner with Virginia school children Warner Main Page Banner Warner
                                                                Main Page Banner


   About the Senator Link
   Legislation Link
   Press Office Link
   Services Link
   Accomplishments Link
   Tourism Link
   Kids Link
   Contact Link
   Contact the Senator

   [legis_issues_a.gif] [legis_links_i.gif]

   Education Reform

   I am pleased to report that a House of Representatives/Senate Education
   Conference Committee, on which I had the privilege of serving, has
   completed its work on legislation that will substantially reform
   elementary and secondary education in this country. On December 18,
   2001, this legislation, entitled H.R.1, the "No Child Left Behind Act,"
   passed the Senate by a vote of 87-10, with my support. The House of
   Representatives also passed this bill, which was then signed into law
   by President Bush on January 8, 2002.

   President Bush has appropriately indicated that education reform is a
   top priority, stating that our education system must ensure that "No
   Child is Left Behind." I share President Bush's goal. Its time to
   change the status quo in education to ensure that all of our children
   receive a high quality education. With the President's leadership, and
   with the leadership of Secretary of Education Rod Paige, members of
   Congress from both sides of the aisle came together to reach an
   agreement on this legislation.

   The No Child Left Behind Act makes important reforms to the Elementary
   and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Originally passed in 1965, the ESEA
   provides authority for most federal programs for elementary and
   secondary education. These programs currently receive about $18 billion
   in federal funding, which amounts to an estimated 7 cents out of every
   dollar that is spent on education on all levels of government.

   Despite a federal investment of well over $120 billion in education
   since 1965, and the conscientious efforts of federal, state, and local
   entities over many years, our education system continues to lag. Nearly
   70% of inner city fourth graders are unable to read at a basic level on
   national reading tests. Fourth graders in high poverty schools remain
   two grade levels behind their peers in other schools in math. Our high
   school seniors score lower than students in most industrialized nations
   on international math tests. And, approximately one-third of college
   freshman must take a remedial course before they are able to even begin
   college level courses.

   How can we change federal education policy in a positive manner to
   ensure that our children receive a high quality education? There are no
   simple answers. However, increased education funding, increased
   flexibility for our states and localities, and a strong system of
   accountability are all steps in the right direction. In this regard,
   the No Child Left Behind Act is right on target.

   The No Child Left Behind Act authorizes $26.5 billion for elementary
   and secondary education. This includes a substantial increase for Title
   I programs - which are education programs directed toward disadvantaged
   children. The bill also provides substantial funding for programs aimed
   at having all children read by the 3rd grade, teacher quality programs,
   and programs aimed at making our schools safe and drug free.

   However, experience demonstrates that simply throwing additional money
   at education will not solve our education problems. The federal role in
   education must be reformed. States and localities must be given
   flexibility in their use of those funds, and, in return, the federal
   government must expect increased results from the states and
   localities.

   Since the ESEA was created in 1965, Congress has established numerous
   programs intended to address problems in the education system. Most of
   these programs have a specified purpose and a target population.
   Typically, funds provided under a specific federally created program
   can only be used for one specific purpose.

   As with most issues, those individuals closest to the problem, our
   state and local leaders, are in the best position to assess a course of
   action to solve the problem. The current Washington, D.C. imposed
   "solution for every problem approach" to education does not provide our
   states and localities with enough flexibility to address the problems
   that are confronting our schools.

   For example, while schools in Boston, Massachusetts could use
   additional money to hire teachers to reduce classroom size, schools in
   Tazewell, Virginia, may have a more pressing need to use that money for
   other priorities, like purchasing new text books or reimbursing
   teachers for professional development expenses. Federally targeted
   programs for a specified purpose does not recognize that different
   states and localities have different needs.

   The No Child Left Behind Act recognizes the importance of state and
   local control over federal education dollars. Accordingly, this
   legislation consolidates a number of the current ESEA one size fits all
   education programs and allows states and localities to use that money
   for a number of purposes, where it needs that money the most.

   In return for increased flexibility, the No Child Left Behind Act calls
   for increased accountability. States will be required to test its
   students annually in reading and math from grades 3-8. Virginia,
   through the Standards of Learning, knows the importance of testing, and
   the No Child Left Behind Act will build upon Virginia's experience.

   Testing will provide parents with the information they need to know to
   determine how well their child is doing in school and how well the
   school is educating their child. While some have expressed concern that
   the No Child Left Behind Act calls for too much testing, I have a
   different view. A yearly standard test in reading and math will allow
   our educators to catch any problems in reading and math at the earliest
   possible moment.

   While I am committed to increasing federal funding for education, and
   reducing class room sizes, I do not support a one size fits all
   Washington, D.C. educational approach. The Commonwealth of Virginia,
   its localities, and Virginia's parents know better than Washington,
   D.C. about how to most effectively meet Virginia's educational needs.

   As I have said, education is the key to a better quality of life for
   all Americans, and passage of the No Child Left Behind Act will be a
   step in the right direction. As always, I look forward to hearing the
   views of my fellow Virginians as to additional measures that we can
   implement to improve our education system. We must leave no child
   behind.


   Updated: January 10, 2002


                         Back to Legislative Issues

                  About the Senator  ·  Legislation  ·  Press
        Office  ·  Services  ·  Accomplishments  ·  Tourism  ·  Kid's
                                Page  ·  Contact
