http://www.em.doe.gov/program_cross.html

   EM Home | Planning and Execution

   Office of Environmental Management

   [spacer.gif]

   [hqonly.gif]

                   Cross-Cutting Programs and Initiatives


   Bullet
   Applied Cost Engineering (ACE) Team
   The Environmental Restoration (ER) Applied Cost Engineering (ACE) Team
   promotes continuous cost improvements through dissemination of cost
   engineering tools, methods, techniques, best practices, and lessons
   learned across the ER complex.
   Bullet Central Internet Database When You Select This Link, You Will
   Exit the EMWeb Server
   The Central Internet Database provides easy access to information on
   DOE waste, contaminated media, spent fuel, and facilities.
   Bullet Cleanup Criteria Data Reporting System When You Select This
   Link, You Will Exit the EMWeb Server
   The Cleanup Criteria Decision Document database contains cleanup
   guidelines, or criteria, and corresponding information for
   environmental restoration, decontamination and decommissioning (D&D),
   and related activities at EM sites.
   Bullet CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
   Liability Act) Agreements
   Listing of CERCLA Agreements for various sites.
   Bullet Collaborative Decision-Making
   Collaborative decision-making is an approach where Department of Energy
   and its regulators work together as a team to attain a common goal:
   timely, cost-efficient, environmental cleanup and compliance.
   Bullet Decommissioning of Facilities
   This page provides useful decommissioning information such as policy
   and guidance, a downloadable version of the Decommissioning
   Benchmarking Study, and links to site-specific decommissioning pages
   and lessons learned.
   Bullet Environmental Restoration/Waste Management Programmatic
   Environmental Impact Statement (ER/WM PEIS) Implementation Plan,
   November 1994 (Historical)
   Bullet Excess Facility Transition to Deactivation & Decommissioning The
   management approach to disposing of DOEs excess facilities is set forth
   in DOE Order 430.1A, Life Cycle Asset Management (LCAM). In general,
   excess facility disposition phases encompass Transition, Deactivation,
   Surveillance and Maintenance, and Decommissioning..
   Bullet Facility Representative Bulletin Board
   The Facility Representative (F/R) Bulletin Board (BB) is intended to be
   a forum for Facility Representatives to find, post, and exchange
   information related to their position as a F/R.
   Bullet Long Term Stewardship
   This site is a tool of the Department of Energy Long-Term Stewardship
   Working Group to provide information to the public related to the
   long-term care of DOE sites.
   Bullet National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Documents When You
   Select This Link, You Will Exit the EMWeb Server
   Bullet Office of Environmental Management (EM) Lessons Learned
   The goals of the EM Lessons Learned Program are to improve
   efficiencies, and effectiveness, reduce risk and waste, as well as
   accelerate remediation project closure, through the dissemination and
   utilization of lessons learned relevant to environmental management
   business and functional areas.
   Bullet Performance Measures
   This web page captures the history of performance measurement in the
   Office of Environmental Restoration, illustrates program progress and
   results to date, and communicates the future direction of the program
   through performance measures.
   Bullet Pollution Prevention
   Pollution Prevention is the use of materials, processes, and practices
   to eliminate or reduce the generation and release of pollutants,
   contaminants, hazardous substances, and wastes to the environment.
   Bullet Privatization Program
   The U.S. Department of Energy Environmental Management Privatization
   Program is an acquisition strategy which provides alternative methods
   for accelerating cleanup and reducing cost through competition, private
   sector financing, and the application of proven private sector
   technology and experience.
   Bullet Program Integration
   Apply site success complex-wide. Develop/share innovative technology.
   Bullet Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement Settlement
   This site provides news and information about the implementation of the
   December 12, 1998, Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement
   Settlement Agreement between the Department of Energy and the Natural
   Resources Defense Council (NRDC et. al. v. Richardson,
   No.97-936(SS)(AK)).
   Bullet Recycling in the Environmental Management Program (Historical)
   The Recycling in the Environmental Management Program page contains the
   signed Recycle 2000 policy, information related to the development of
   the policy, and other recycle information. (Historical)
   Bullet Technical Information Exchange (TIE)
   The Technical Information Exchange (TIE) Workshop is an annual forum in
   which information and lessons learned on programs and initiatives
   throughout EM is shared.
   Bullet Office of Transportation
   This site contains information about the Senior Executive
   Transportation Forum, the National Transportation Program, the
   Emergency Management Program, and PATRAM 2001.

             EM HOME  |  DOE HOME  |  SEARCH  |  WEBSITE OUTLINE
                 FEEDBACK  |  INTERACTIVE MAP  |  WHAT'S NEW
                         PRIVACY AND SECURITY NOTICE

   Last Updated 09/10/2001 (mes)
