http://www.darp.noaa.gov/legislat.htm

Relevant Laws

   NOAA's Legal Authorities for Restoring Coastal Resources

   In the past 25 years, Congress and the President have enacted a suite
   of environmental laws to address the degradation of the Nation's
   natural resources. Explicit statutory authority to restore injured
   natural resources began with the Clean Water Act amendments of 1977 and
   continued with the later enactment of the Comprehensive Environmental
   Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERLCA or Superfund), the
   National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA), and the Oil Pollution Act of
   1990 (OPA) and other related laws. As the primary Federal natural
   resource trustee for coastal resources, NOAA has responsibility for
   ensuring the restoration of coastal resources injured by releases of
   hazardous materials and of national marine sanctuary resources injured
   by physical impacts. The Clean Water Act, CERCLA and OPA mandate that
   parties that release hazardous materials and oil into the environment
   are responsible not only for the cost of cleaning up the release, but
   also for restoring any injury to natural resources that resulted. The
   National Marine Sanctuaries Act mandates that parties who destroy,
   cause the loss of, or injure sanctuary resources are responsible for
   their restoration. Under all of these statutes, NOAA works to protect
   and restore coastal resources in order to preserve the Nation's natural
   resource heritage for Americans today and for future generations.

   Clean Water Act
   33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.

   This is the principle statute governing water quality. The statute's
   goal is to end all discharges entirely and to restore, maintain and
   preserve the integrity of the nation's waters, with an interim goal of
   providing water that is both fishable and swimmable. The Act regulates
   both the direct and indirect discharge of pollutants into the nation's
   waters. It mandates permits for wastewater and storm water discharges,
   regulates publicly owned treatment works that treat municipal and
   industrial wastewater, requires states to establish site-specific water
   quality standards for navigable bodies of water, and regulates other
   activities that affect water quality, such as dredging and the filling
   of wetlands. The Clean Water Act was enacted in 1977 as a series of
   amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1948.

   Specific Natural Resource Trustee Authorities under the Clean Water Act

   Oil Pollution Act of (OPA) 1990
   33 U.S.C. 2701-2761.

   This is the principle statute governing oil spills into the nation's
   waterways. The Oil Pollution Act (OPA) was passed in the wake of the
   Exxon Valdez oil spill in March of 1989. The statute establishes
   liability and limitations on liability for damages resulting from oil
   pollution, and establishes a fund for the payment of compensation for
   such damages. In conjunction with CERCLA, it mandates a "National Oil
   and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP)" to provide
   the organizational structure and procedures for preparing for and
   responding to discharges of oil and releases of hazardous substances,
   pollutants, and contaminants. It requires preparation of spill
   prevention and response plans by coastal facilities, vessels, and
   certain geographic regions. OPA amended the Clean Water Act and
   includes the Oil Terminal and Oil Tanker Environmental Oversight and
   Monitoring Act of 1990.

   Specific Natural Resource Trustee Authorities under OPA

   Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
   1980 (CERCLA or Superfund)
   42. U.S.C. 9601 et seq.

   This is the principle statute governing the cleanup of sites
   contaminated with hazardous substances and responses to spills of those
   substances. The statute establishes liability for site cleanup,
   prescribes a procedure for identifying and ranking contaminated sites,
   provides funding for site cleanups, reduces uncontrolled releases of
   hazardous substances, establishes cleanup procedures that provide
   protection for humans and the environment, and restores injured natural
   resources through provisions administered by the natural resource
   trustees. In conjunction with OPA, it mandates a "National Oil and
   Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP)" to provide the
   organizational structure and procedures for preparing for and
   responding to discharges of oil and releases of hazardous substances,
   pollutants, and contaminants. The statute was amended by the Superfund
   Amendment and Reauthorization Act (SARA) in 1986, which adds extensive
   public "right-to-know" and emergency planning requirements, establishes
   a fund for leaking underground storage tanks, and imposes worker safety
   requirements for hazardous materials.

   Specific Natural Resource Trustee Authorities under CERCLA

   National Marine Sanctuaries Act
   16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.

   This is the principle statute governing the designation and management
   of protected marine areas of special significance. The statute requires
   NOAA to designate National Marine Sanctuaries in accordance with
   specific guidelines and to develop and review management plans for
   these sites. It provides for the continuation of existing leases,
   licenses and other established rights in sanctuary areas, and for the
   development of research and education programs. The statute also
   prohibits destruction, injury or loss of sanctuary resources, and
   establishes liability for response costs and natural resource damages
   for injury to these resources. The NMSA was formerly referred to as
   Title III of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of
   1972.

   Specific Natural Resource Trustee Authorities under NMSA

   Anadromous Fish Conservation Act (AFCA)
   16 U.S.C. 757a et seq.

   The AFCA authorizes the Secretaries of Commerce and/or Interior to
   enter into cooperative agreements with the states for the conservation,
   development, and enhancement of the Nation's anadromous fishery
   resources. Pursuant to such agreements, the federal government may
   undertake studies and activities to restore, enhance, or manage
   anadromous fish, fish habitat, and passages. The Act authorizes federal
   grants to the states or other non-Federal entities to improve spawning
   areas, install fishways, construction fish protection devices and
   hatcheries, conduct research to improve management, and otherwise
   increase anadromous fish resources. The Trustees may be able to take
   advantage of the provisions and funding of AFCA in order to leverage
   anadromous fish restoration plans and projects.

   Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA)
   16 U.S.C. 1451, et seq. 15 CFR Part 923

   The goal of the CZMA is to preserve, protect, develop and, where
   possible, restore and enhance the nation's coastal resources. The
   federal government provides matching grants to states with
   federally-approved coastal management programs for the realization of
   these goals through the development and implementation of state coastal
   zone management programs. Most states have a federally-approved
   program. Section 1456 of the CZMA requires that any federal action
   inside or outside of the coastal zone that affects any land or water
   use or natural resources of the coastal zone shall be consistent, to
   the maximum extent practicable, with the enforceable policies of
   approved State management programs. It states that no federal license
   or permit may be granted without giving the State the opportunity to
   concur that the project is consistent with the State's coastal
   policies. The regulations outline the consistency procedures. Other
   provisions of CZMA provide for the development of special area
   management plans (SAMPs) for areas of the coastal zone of particular
   importance (16 USC 1456b(6)). In addition, Section 6217 of P.L.
   101-508, codified at 16 USC 1455b, requires states with
   federally-approved CZM programs to develop programs for the control of
   coastal non-point pollution control.

   In order to comply with the CZMA, the Trustees intend to seek the
   concurrence of the State that their preferred projects are consistent
   to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the
   state coastal program.

   Endangered Species Act (ESA)
   16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq.

   The ESA establishes a policy that all Federal departments and agencies
   seek to conserve endangered and threatened species and their habitats,
   and encourages such agencies to utilize their authorities to further
   these purposes. Under the Act, the Department of Commerce through NOAA
   and the Department of the Interior through the USFWS publish lists of
   endangered and threatened species. Section 7 of the Act requires that
   federal agencies and departments consult with these departments to
   minimize the effects of federal actions on endangered and threatened
   species. Prior to implementation of any project that may potentially
   affect an endangered or threatened species project, the Trustees would
   conduct Section 7 consultations.

   Executive Order 11988 -- Construction in Floodplains

   This 1977 Executive Order directs federal agencies to avoid to the
   extent possible the long- and short-term adverse impacts associated
   with the occupancy and modification of floodplains and to avoid direct
   or indirect support of development in floodplains wherever there is a
   practicable alternative. Each agency is responsible for evaluating the
   potential effects of any action it may take in a floodplain.

   Before taking an action, the federal agency must determine whether the
   proposed action will occur in a floodplain. For major federal actions
   significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, the
   evaluation will be included in the agency's NEPA compliance
   document(s). The agency must consider alternatives to avoid adverse
   effects and incompatible development in floodplains. If the only
   practicable alternative requires siting in a floodplain, the agency
   must: (1) design or modify the action to minimize potential harm; and
   (2) prepare and circulate a notice containing an explanation of why the
   action is proposed to be located in the floodplain.

   Executive Order 12898 - Environmental Justice

   On February 11, 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12898,
   Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority
   Populations and Low-Income Populations. This Executive Order requires
   each federal agency to identify and address, as appropriate,
   disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental
   effects of its programs, policies and activities on minority and low
   income populations. EPA and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ)
   have emphasized the importance of incorporating environmental justice
   review in the analyses conducted by federal agencies under NEPA and of
   developing mitigation measures that avoid disproportionate
   environmental effects on minority and low-income populations.

   Affected Communities The Trustees will identify whether there are any
   distinct, separate communities which may be potentially affected by any
   action under a NRDA Restoration Plan. There may be some Native American
   communities which rely on Treaty-reserved fish and shellfish resources
   for subsistence, economic and spiritual purposes; other members of
   low-income communities may also rely on fishery resources for
   subsistence purposes. The Trustees will determine whether there are any
   disproportionate, adverse impacts on human health or environmental
   effects on implementation of any preferred alternative under a NRDA
   Restoration Plan on members of a tribal or other minority or low income
   population. The Trustees will ensure that there are no low income or
   ethnic minority communities that would be adversely affected by the
   proposed restoration activities.

   Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (FWCA)
   16 U.S.C. 661, et seq.

   The FWCA requires that federal agencies consult with the U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service, the National Marine Fisheries Service and State
   wildlife agencies for activities that affect, control or modify waters
   of any stream or bodies of water, in order to minimize the adverse
   impacts of such actions on fish and wildlife resources and habitat.
   This consultation is generally incorporated into the process of
   complying with Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, NEPA or other
   federal permit, license or review requirements.

   National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
   42 U.S.C. 4321-4370d; 40 CFR Parts 1500-1508.

   NEPA is the basic national charter for the protection of the
   environment. Its purpose is to "encourage productive and enjoyable
   harmony betwen man and the environment; to promote efforts which will
   prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and
   stimulate the health and welfare of man; and to enrich the understand
   of the ecological systems and and natural resources important to the
   Nation." The law requires the government to consider the consequences
   of major federal actions on human and natural aspects of the
   environment in order to minimize, where possible, adverse impacts.
   Equally important, NEPA established a process of environmental review
   and public notification for federal planning and decisionmaking.

   Generally, when it is uncertain whether an action will have a
   significant effect, federal agencies will begin the NEPA planning
   process by preparing an Environmental Assessment (EA). The EA may
   undergo a public review and comment period. Federal agencies may then
   review the comments and make a determination. Depending on whether an
   impact is considered significant, an environmental impact statement
   (EIS) or a finding of no significance (FONSI) will be issued.

   The Trustees have integrated OPA restoration planning with the NEPA
   process to comply, in part, with those requirements. This integrated
   process allows the Trustees to meet the public involvement requirements
   of OPA and NEPA concurrently. Restoration Plans and EAs or EISs are
   intended to accomplish partial NEPA compliance by summarizing the
   current environmental setting; describing the purpose and need for
   restoration action; identifying alternative actions; assessing the
   preferred actions' environmental consequences; and summarizing
   opportunities for public participation in the decision process.
   Project-specific NEPA documents will need to be prepared for those
   proposed restoration projects not already analyzed in an environment
   assessment or environmental impact statement.

   Park System Resource Protection Act
   16 U.S.C.19jj

   Public Law 101-337, Park System Resource Protection Act (16
   U.S.C.19jj), requires the Secretary of the Interior to assess and
   monitor injuries to park system resources. The Act specifically allows
   the Secretary of the Interior to recover response costs and damages
   from the responsible party causing the destruction, loss of or injury
   to park system resources. This Act provides that any monies recovered
   by the NPS may be used to reimburse the costs of response and damage
   assessment and to restore, replace or acquire the equivalent of the
   injured resources.

   Rivers and Harbors Act
   33 U.S.C. 401, et seq.

   The Rivers and Harbors Act regulates development and use of the
   nation's navigable waterways. Section 10 of the Act prohibits
   unauthorized obstruction or alteration of navigable waters and vests
   the Corps with authority to regulate discharges of fill and other
   materials into such waters. Restoration actions that require Section
   404 Clean Water Act permits are likely also to require permits under
   Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act. However, a single permit
   usually serves for both. Therefore, the Trustees can ensure compliance
   with the Rivers and Harbors Act through the same mechanisms.

   OTHER POTENTIALLY APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS

   This section lists other laws that potentially affect NRDA restoration
   activities. The statutes or their implementing regulations may require
   permits from federal or state permitting authorities.

   Federal

   Archaeological Resources Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 470, et seq.
   Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq.
   Emergency Wetlands Resources Act, 16 USC 3901.
   Estuarine Protection Act, 16 USC 1221 et seq.
   Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 USC 1321 et seq.
   Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 16 USC 661 et seq.
   Marine Mammal Protection Act, 16 USC 1361 et seq.
   Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, 33 USC 1401 et seq.
   Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 16 USC 703 et seq.
   National Historic Preservation Act, 12 USC 470 et seq.
   National Park Act of August 19, 1916 (Organic Act), 16 U.S.C. 1, et
   seq.


   List of applicable laws and regulations potentially applicable under
   NRDA Restoration Plans -- table format

   Note: This file require a current 32-bit version of Adobe Acrobat to
   view.

   Return to Top [up2.gif] Return to About DARP DARP Home Page [home.gif]
   Disclaimer
   __________________________________________________________________

   Last updated: October 12, 2001
