http://ares.fedworld.gov/preview/index.html

   jump to main content jump to left side links for Tax Info For... jump
   to left side links for Resources jump to right side Quick Links box
   jump to right side Special Interest box jump to the tool bar navigation
   bottom of the page



   Search Site Map Index Help
                             IRS.gov



   Tax Info For...


      Individuals
         Self Employed
         Military
         Overseas Taxpayers
         Foreign National

      Businesses
         Partnerships
         Self Employed
         Small Business
         Corporations

      Charities & Other Non-Profits
      Retirement Plans
      Federal/State/Local Governments
         Governmental Liaisons & Tax
             Administrators
         Government Entities Who File

      Indian Tribal Governments
      Tax Exempt Bonds
      Tax Professionals
         Tax Preparers
         Financial Planners
         Accountants
         Enrolled Agents
         Attorneys
         Authorized e-file Providers
   Resources


      Forms & Publications
      Taxpayer Help
         Tax Help
         Frequently Asked Questions
         Life Events
         Help for IRS Notices
         Taxpayer Advocate
         IRS Appeals
         IRS Privacy Advocate
      Electronic Filing
         For Individual Taxpayers
         For Businesses
      Information
         Research Tools
         The Freedom of Information Act
         Technical Guidance
         Tools for Teachers
         Tax Tips
         Tax Regs in Plain English
         Tax Trails
         Tax Scams and Tax Fraud Alerts
         Accessibility Features
         Applicable Federal Rates
      Government Data Exchange
      Government Employment Tax Issues
      Volunteer Opportunities
      Contact Us
      Procurement
      Comments and Feedback
      IRS Careers




   Collage of pictures: Man with his daughter, lady, and keyboard. We are
                   trying out a new look for our Web site.
     We are working to put service first by offering a Web site that...
            - provides speedy access to the information you need
                         - is easy to navigate, and
      - presents a new and modern look. Take a look at the new January
                                  version.

                                     New
                        Beware of Deceptive Mailings
    Some taxpayers have received official-looking forms in the mail that
   offer to calculate - for a fee - the amount taxpayers could receive in
   their advance payment refund checks. There is no need for taxpayers to
    pay a fee to determine the amount of their advance refund. Visit the
                Problem Alerts page for further information.

    Small graphic depicting 4 categories of disabilities. IRS.gov Access
                   Features for Persons with Disabilities
     Visit the Accessibility page for a description of the accessibility
         features that have been built into the design of the site.

                               2001 Tax Forums
   Are you a tax professional looking for Forums on the latest information
   on IRS programs, practices, and policies? Learn more about the 2001 IRS
   Nationwide Tax Forums, including dates, locations and how to register.

                                     New
        IRS Takes on 21st Century with Next Generation Tax Solutions
   View interactive streaming videos about IRS e-file....the fastest most
                  accurate way to file and pay your taxes.

                          Taxpayer Advocate Service
      The Taxpayer Advocate Service is an IRS program that provides an
     independent system to assure that tax problems, which have not been
     resolved through normal channels, are promptly and fairly handled.

              A Free Resource for New Small Business Owners...
   Order your free Small Business Resource Guide, CD-ROM 2001 -- Developed
                               by IRS and SBA.

                       Tax Refunds Looking For Owners
     The IRS is looking for more than 90,000 taxpayers who still haven't
    received tax refund checks worth $67.4 million. If you think the IRS
    owes you money, call the toll-free assistance line at 1-800-829-1040.

                Tornado Help During Disasters and Emergencies
   We know that major disasters and emergencies can strike at any time. If
        your property has been damaged from an event such as a flood,
    hurricane, tornado, fire or earthquake, we want you to know that the
                                IRS can help.

                   Interactive Installment Payment Process
     If you have a Federal tax liability you may be eligible to pay the
   balance due under an installment agreement. Our interactive installment
    payment process will help you determine if you are eligible, and what
                        your monthly payment may be.


   Quick Links

   What's Hot
   Forms & Publications
   e-file
   Automatic Extension
   Special Interest

   IRS Modernization
   Tells you how the changes in the new IRS are designed to better serve
   you.

   Simplified Tax and Wage Reporting
   Resources to help employers and businesses simplify the employment tax
   and wage reporting process.

   Press Room
   Latest tax related news.

   IRS Criminal Investigation
   Investigative arm entrusted to foster confidence in the tax system and
   compliance with tax law.

   FirstGov
   Links to all U.S. Federal Government public Web sites.

   IRS Freedom of Information
   The Freedom of Information Act allows access to most Federal Agency
   records.

   2000 Tax Products CD-ROM
   New and up to date products to help you fill out your forms.

   Form 8872 Submissions
   On-line version of the Political Organization Report of Contributions
   and Expenditures form.

   Employer Identification Numbers
   Understanding your EIN - General information about Employee
   Identification Numbers.

     IRS Privacy and Security Policy  | Corrections and Clarifications |
                            Back to Digital Daily
