http://www.ndsc.wwb.noaa.gov/abt_ndsc/ma01_intr.html

             Network for the Detection of Stratospheric Change:
                     Measurements and Analyses Directory

                             (Revised July 2001)


  NDSC Sites

  I) Principal Investigators (PIs), Instruments, and Deployments

     a) Listed according to NDSC Primary Station

     b) Listed according to instrument type

  II) Theory and Analysis (a) and Satellite (b) Working Groups

  III) Complementary Investigators (CIs), Instruments, and Deployments

     a) Listed according to NDSC Complementary Site / Station

     b) Listed according to instrument type

  IV) Candidate Principal and Complementary Investigators (PIs and CIs),
  Instruments, and Locations

  V) NDSC-Related Acronyms

   This Directory summarizes the operational status of the Network for the
   Detection of Stratospheric Change (NDSC). It reflects the various
   international measurement and analysis activities and future expansion
   opportunities. The Directory will continue to grow with the acceptance
   of new instruments and experimental Principal Investigators (PIs) at
   NDSC Primary Station sites, Theory and Statistical Analysis
   Investigators (TIs), Satellite Investigators (SIs), and Complementary
   Investigators (CIs) at Primary and/or Complementary Sites/Stations.

   Section I lists NDSC experimental PIs: (a) by station latitude (ordered
   by instrument type) and (b) by instrument type (ordered by station
   latitude). This section includes investigators with an identified
   NDSC-class instrument operating at an NDSC Primary Station site from
   which there are no plans for relocation in the near future;
   investigators with instruments, either built or under development, with
   a tentative NDSC Primary Station site selected; and investigators with
   mobile NDSC instruments, either built or under development, nominally
   assigned to an NDSC site but whose deployments and use as
   intercomparators are open. Deployment of both the ÒfixedÓ and mobile
   instruments can be reprioritized based on science needs and the
   assessment and recommendation of the NDSC Steering Committee.

   Section II is a list of TIs and SIs approved by the Steering Committee
   following recommendation by an NDSC Science Team proposal review panel
   as outlined in the NDSC Theory and Analysis Protocol.

   Section III is a list of NDSC experimental CIs who are conducting
   measurements identified as having specific benefit for the NDSC through
   such aspects as the measurement location, the measurement technique, or
   additional science value. These include NDSC-class instruments
   operating at locations other than an NDSC Primary Station site or other
   types of instruments operating at an NDSC Primary Station site or at a
   Complementary Site/Station. Section IIIa is a listing of CIs by
   site/station latitude, while Section IIIb is a listing by instrument
   type. As with all NDSC investigators, CIs are selected through the
   review of proposals submitted to the NDSC Steering Committee. Specific
   details regarding the framework for the association of both long-term
   and campaign-style measurements within the NDSC can be found in the
   Complementary Measurements Protocol.

   Section IV lists a number of instruments and/or measurement activities
   that are similar to those in the NDSC, but are presently operated
   independent of the Network. As candidates for the NDSC PI or CI status,
   both the investigatorÕs interest in joining the NDSC and the
   flexibility of the instrument deployment must be ascertained. It is
   anticipated that investigators will shift from Section IV to Sections I
   or III as their involvement in the NDSC crystallizes and possibly, from
   Section III to Section I as NDSC implementation matures.
