http://www.bpt.ca.gov/svp.html

   [goldenstate.jpg] California Homepage Governor's Homepage




                                  Site Map:

   Home
       BPT
       Logo
     Chairperson
       Executive
     Commissioners
     Deputy Commissioners
     Divisions
       Executive
         Victim Services
       Administrative
         Communications Office
           Press Releases
       Hearings
         Offender Screening
           MDO
           SVP
       Investigations
         Pardon How-to
       Legal
     General Information
       Related Links
       Who Gets Parole?
     Projects
       Chemical Castration
       Gang Abatement Program
       High Control Parolees
       Foreign Prisoner Transfer
       Regulatory Revision
     Statistics
       Caseload Statistics


                    The California Board of Prison Terms



                      Sexually Violent Predator Statute

   AB 888, known as the Sexually Violent Predator (SVP) statute became law
   January 1, 1996. This law seeks to ensure that sexual predators who are
   suffering from mental disorders and who are deemed likely to re-offend
   are treated in a secure facility through a civil commitment process,
   and are not prematurely released into society to victimize more
   Californians.

   The Department of Corrections and the Board of Prison Terms screen
   cases to determine if they meet the criteria specified in the statute.
   If so, the prisoner is referred to the Department of Mental Health for
   clinical evaluation by two clinical evaluators. If both clinical
   evaluators find that the prisoner meets the criteria, the case is
   referred to the county district attorney who may file a petition for
   civil commitment.

   Once a petition has been filed, a judge holds a probable cause hearing
   and if probable cause is found, the prisoner is scheduled for a court
   trial. If the jury finds, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the offender
   meets the statutory criteria, the prisoner may then be civilly
   committed to a Department of Mental Health facility for treatment for
   two years. The offender is examined at least once each year of the
   commitment and may petition the court for conditional release. At the
   end of the two-year commitment, the prisoner is evaluated by the court
   to determine whether a new petition of commitment should be filed.

   As of the end of 1998, the Board has investigated more than 2,000
   cases, finding over 600 that met statutory criteria. Since the statute
   became effective in 1996, a total of 121 sex offenders have been found
   through a court trial to be sexually violent predators, and have been
   committed to the Department of Mental Health for treatment.


                               Back to thetop

                    Generated on Fri May 29 09:12:36 1998
                   Last updated: Mon Feb 22 16:33:50 1999
