http://www.coh.osmre.gov/Annual%20Report/Maryland/md00annlfnl.htm

            OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND ENFORCEMENT

                      Annual Evaluation Summary Report

                                   for the

                             Regulatory Program

                          Administered by the State

                                     of

                                  Maryland

                                     for

                            Evaluation Year 2000

                (October 1, 1999, through September 30, 2000)

                                December 2000
     __________________________________________________________________

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

   Introduction/Summary
   Overview of the Maryland Coal Mining Industry
   Overview of the Public Participation Opportunities
   Outreach
   Public Meetings and Hearings
   Organizational Involvement
   Regulatory Participation
   Impacts/Results of Public Participation
   Major Accomplishments/Issues/Innovations
   Title V
   Processes
   Remining
   Program Amendments
   Title IV
   Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative
   Watershed Cooperative Agreement Program
   Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
   Success in Achieving the Purposes of SMCRA
   Off-Site Impacts
   Reclamation Success
   Customer Service
   OSM Assistance
   Financial Assistance
   Technical Assistance
   General Oversight Topic Reviews
   Revegetation Success Evaluation Tools
   Reclamation Liability Review
   Performance Monitoring Study

   APPENDIX A
   Coal Production
   Inspectable Units
   State Permitting Activity
   Off-Site Impacts
   Annual State Mining and Reclamation Results
   State Bond Forfeiture Activity
   State Staffing
   Funds Granted to Maryland by OSM

   APPENDIX B
   State Comments
   Disposition of Comments
     __________________________________________________________________

   I. Introduction/Summary

   Introduction

   The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) created
   the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) in the
   Department of the Interior. SMCRA provides authority to OSM to oversee
   the implementation of and provide federal funding for State Regulatory
   programs that OSM has approved as meeting the minimum standards
   specified by SMCRA. This report contains summary information regarding
   the Maryland Program and the effectiveness of the Maryland Program in
   meeting the applicable purposes of SMCRA as specified in section 102.
   This report covers the period of October 1, 1999, through September 30,
   2000. Detailed background information and comprehensive reports for the
   program elements evaluated during the period are available for review
   and copying at the Pittsburgh Oversight and Inspection Office (OIO).

   Summary

   [minesite.gif] For the evaluation year, oversight data and studies
   indicate that the Maryland Program has been effective in meeting the
   goals of SMCRA. Maryland has conducted a program where active mining
   sites are, with few exceptions, in compliance with planning, mining,
   and reclamation standards. Reclamation in particular has been thorough
   and has proceeded in a contemporaneous fashion. A study of the three
   most recently issued permits indicates that, on average, 86.8 percent
   of the affected area has been backfilled and planted at any time. This
   figure has steadily improved over the last three years^(1). Ninety-one
   percent of sites reviewed exhibit no off-site impacts. Sixty-one
   percent of Maryland sites are remine sites. Maryland continues to
   support remining efforts and has amended their program to provide
   further incentives to remine via their AML enhancement initiative. Thus
   far, 342 acres of previously mined area have been reclaimed in
   Maryland.

   In addition to these mining and reclamation efforts, the Maryland
   Department of the Environment (MDE) has undertaken an effort to update
   and improve information in the Acid Mine Drainage (AMD) inventory, and
   has continued to increase involvement of the public through programs
   such as the Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative and Watershed
   Cooperative Agreements.

   This year's evaluation has also identified a number of program areas
   which should be considered for further improvement. These include a
   need to: reassess site-specific bond amounts; prepare a plan to address
   catastrophic bond forfeitures; adopt a statistically valid method of
   evaluating revegetation success; and address problems identified in
   relation to preparation and support of written findings required in the
   approval of permit applications. OSM will review these areas and others
   which are addressed in the evaluation year 2001 Performance Agreement
   between MDE and OSM in the upcoming year to assure the continuation of
   a strong and viable program in the State of Maryland.

   The following sections of this report provide additional detail on
   program successes and issues identified in the 2000 evaluation year.
   The following is a list of acronyms used in this report:

   ABS    Alternative Bonding System
   ACSI   Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative
   ALD    Anoxic Limestone Drain
   AMD     Acid Mine Drainage
   AML    Abandoned Mine Lands
   AMLIS  Abandoned Mine Land Information System
   AOC    Approximate Original Contour
   APS    Allegheny Power System
   ATP    Authorization to Proceed
   COMAR  Code of Maryland Regulations
   EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
   LRC    Maryland Land Reclamation Committee
   MDE     Maryland Department of the Environment
   NEPA   National Environmental Policy Act
   OIO    Pittsburgh Oversight and Inspection Office
   OSM    Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
   SAPS   Successive Alkalinity Producing System
   SMCRA   Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
   SOAP    Small Operator Assistance Program


   II. Overview of the Maryland Coal Mining Industry

   Coal mining in western Maryland began in the early 1700's, accounting
   for some of the earliest coal ever to be mined in the eastern United
   States. By 1820, several mines were operating in the Eckhart,
   Frostburg, and Vale Summit areas. Between 1900 and 1918, deep mine
   production peaked between four and five million tons annually with a
   historical high of 5.5 million tons in 1907. Most of these mines were
   developed up-dip to drain water away from the mines. As a result of
   this, water high in acid and iron drained into streams. Today, acid
   mine drainage from abandoned coal mines is Western Maryland's most
   serious water pollution problem. After World War II, underground mining
   declined in Maryland. By 1977, surface mining accounted for 91 percent
   of the total production. Since then, production at underground mines
   has recovered and surpassed surface production, accounting for 81
   percent of the total production in 1998^(2). During the 1980's, the
   amount of coal mined in Maryland fluctuated between three and four
   million tons, with the greatest production occurring in 1981 (4.5
   million tons). Since that time, the tonnage mined has been stable at
   approximately 3.5 to 4 million tons per year, with production at 4.1
   million tons for 1998. This production accounted for .36 percent of
   total U.S. coal production in 1998^(3), ranking eighteenth nationally
   in coal production, and is expected to remain stable because of a
   long-term underground contract and a new power plant.

   [powerplant.gif] The AES Warrior Run Cogeneration facility came on line
   near Cumberland in Allegany County in 1999. It has a net power output
   capacity of 180 megawatts which is sold to Allegheny Power Systems (APS
   ) under a 30-year power purchase agreement. The plant was constructed
   to burn only Western Maryland coal with a clean coal technology using a
   circulating fluidized bed boiler. Approximately 600,000 tons of coal
   are burned each year. Limestone used in the Cogeneration process is
   also mined locally. In addition to electric generation, the plant
   produces liquid carbon dioxide (CO2 ) which is sold commercially. The
   industry also hopes to have legislation passed which will provide
   economic incentives such as tax credits against certain taxes for any
   new or expanding coal mining business. [mdenergygraph.gif] Statewide,
   Maryland consumes approximately 12 million tons of coal per year^4 and
   ranks twenty-fifth nationally in total energy consumption. Consumption
   has increased by an average 2.9 percent per year for the period
   1994-1998. Maryland employs approximately 433 coal miners (1998
   statistics), a number which has been decreasing by an average of 1
   percent per year from 1994-1998^4.

   [mdmap24.gif] Today coal mining in Maryland is confined to Garrett and
   the western portion of Allegany County. The topography in this area
   comprises gently rolling terrain with occasional steep slopes. Maryland
   State law prohibits surface mining on steep slopes. The Conemaugh and
   Allegany geologic formations contain five major minable fields or
   basins in the State. These include the Upper Youghiogheny, Lower
   Youghiogheny, Casselman, Upper Potomac, and Georges Creek. The Georges
   Creek Basin contains the most recoverable coal reserves in the State,
   followed by the Upper Potomac and the Casselman. There is no mining in
   the Upper Youghiogheny field. The demonstrated reserve base of coal in
   Maryland is approximately 717 million tons^(4), which ranks Maryland
   twenty-third nationally.

   III. Overview of the Public Participation Opportunities in the
   Oversight Process and the State Program

   There are numerous opportunities for citizens, the industry, and
   environmental groups to participate in the Maryland Regulatory and
   Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) programs. Opportunities for public
   involvement include outreach efforts, informal public meetings,
   organizational involvement, and formal regulatory participation.

   Outreach

   During the evaluation year, Maryland expanded the scope of the Acid
   Mine Drainage (AMD) Advisory Committee into a newly formed and larger
   AMD Committee. The new committee incorporates the functions of the
   advisory committee and, in addition, will be more involved in AML
   projects and special projects. The expanded committee includes
   representatives from the coal industry, The University of Maryland's
   Appalachian Environmental Lab, Maryland Department of Natural
   Resources, and West Virginia AML Program personnel. Through the
   expansion of the committee and Maryland's efforts to involve more of
   the public in AMD and other watershed clean-up activities, local groups
   such as the Youghiogheny River Watershed Association have become
   involved in watershed clean-up activities. One project, the Garrett
   County landfill iron seep, though determined to be non-mining related,
   is in the process of being corrected as a result of interaction between
   MDE and local groups. The expanded committee has also been able to
   secure funding from State, private, and federal sources, including
   $80,000 from the OSM Watershed Cooperative Program, to work on
   eliminating AMD from impacting good quality water at the abandoned
   Kempton Mine complex.

   Maryland continues to develop partnerships with EPA, NRCS, The Canaan
   Valley Institute, Trout Unlimited and others in an attempt to combine
   funding resources for solving AMD problems. An example of such a
   partnership is the Neff Run Project located in Allegany County,
   Maryland. Neff Run is a tributary to Georges Creek and has been
   severely impacted by AMD as well as periodic flooding. Through the
   formation of the Neff Run Work Group, planning, assessment, analysis,
   design, construction and public outreach activities are being carried
   out for the purpose of restoring the Neff Run watershed.

   A joint MDE/OSM presentation of the Watershed Cooperative Program was
   made to the Western Maryland Resource Conservation and Development
   Council Inc. on March 15, 2000. Council members represent soil and
   water conservation interests in the five westernmost counties of
   Maryland and work as a nonprofit agency and work cooperatively with
   other partners in promoting resource conservation and protection.

   During the evaluation year, the Maryland Department of Environment
   sponsored a two and one-half day symposium on the North Branch of the
   Potomac. The Symposium brought together a broad coalition of
   stakeholders interested in improving the water quality of the North
   Branch. In addition, a tour of current and future project sites was
   given. The Symposium provided a good forum for public involvement in
   the Title IV program.

   [cubscouts.gif] Another example of outreach took place recently in the
   form of a mine tour designed to educate the young people of Maryland
   regarding coal mining and reclamation in their State. The tour,
   organized by OSM, State, and Industry officials, involved 24 Cub Scouts
   from Dens in Grantsville and Cumberland, Maryland, along with their
   leaders. They toured a mining operation located near Frostburg,
   Maryland. Company representatives explained surface mining operations
   at the site and how the land is reclaimed following the removal of
   coal. The Scouts were shown various aspects of the mining operation
   including the removal of overburden, saving topsoil, augering
   operations, blasting, and safety procedures.

   The Maryland Bureau of Mines also maintains a web site on the world
   wide web which offers information on goals, objectives, and
   accomplishments under the program, as well as opportunities for public
   input via e-mail.

   The OSM Oversight and Inspection Office (OIO) maintains a web site
   designed to keep the public informed on reclamation and enforcement
   activities in Maryland by providing access to the Maryland Performance
   Agreement, the Maryland Annual Report, topical study reports, and a
   monthly newsletter. The newsletter provides opportunities for public
   participation and comment on annual work plans, and includes references
   to Federal Register notices of interest to the public, descriptions of
   oversight activities, and OSM and Department of the Interior press
   releases . The newsletter is also mailed to representatives of
   industry, environmental, and citizen groups.

   Public Meetings and Hearings

   The public is routinely provided opportunities for informal
   participation through public meetings. One public hearing was held
   during the period on February 24, 2000, to review three proposed AML
   projects. Public hearings were also provided as part of the permitting
   and bond release process. The State Land Reclamation Committee held
   public meetings on six occasions to review proposed permits,
   reclamation plans and AML projects.

   Organizational Involvement

   Organizational involvement in restoring Maryland's mined lands is
   taking place at several levels. From local watershed groups to national
   organizations and State and Federal Agencies, efforts are ongoing to
   take advantage of partnering opportunities and the benefits they
   provide. Many organizations were active in the Maryland program during
   this evaluation period.

   Through the joint efforts of local citizens, MDE, the Canaan Valley
   Institute, OSM and others, the Georges Creek Watershed Association was
   formed in 1999. The Association is the second watershed association
   formed in the coal region of Western Maryland. George's Creek is a
   19-mile long watershed which empties into the North Branch of the
   Potomac at Westernport, Maryland. The watershed has been severely
   impacted by past surface and underground coal mining operations. Mine
   drainage from abandoned mine sites serves as the major pollution source
   in the watershed. The Watershed Association formed as a result of local
   citizens' desire to hasten the clean-up efforts being undertaken in the
   watershed. During the evaluation year, the Georges Creek Watershed
   Association combined with the Mill Run Watershed Association, the first
   watershed group formed in Maryland. The combined organization is
   involved with several ACSI and Watershed Cooperative Agreement
   projects, including Neff Run, Mill Run Remediation, and Fazenbaker. The
   group has partnered with MDE, Trout Unlimited, OSM, Maryland State
   Highways, Westmar High School, Western Maryland Resource Conservation
   Development Council, Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin,
   and others to help control AMD.

   The American Heritage Rivers program was enacted by Executive Order on
   September 11, 1997. This program was designed to partner
   community-based efforts with federal support to improve and protect
   designated rivers. The Friends of the Potomac, a community-based
   nonprofit corporation, nominated the Potomac River for inclusion in the
   program. On July 30, 1998, the Potomac River was designated as one of
   14 rivers nationwide as an American Heritage River. The Friends of the
   Potomac, along with the National Park Service as the lead federal
   agency, and eight other federal agencies, including OSM, are working
   together to restore and protect the Potomac River. The designation has
   meant that OSM and other local, state, federal, and private partners
   are placing additional emphasis on improving the Potomac River. MDE
   continues to be part of this effort through increased emphasis on
   eliminating AMD on the North Branch of the Potomac. Other actions by
   MDE to improve water quality of the Potomac include the use of lime
   dosers to treat AMD, implementing a comprehensive investigation of the
   geology and hydrology of the Kempton Mine complex, and flow monitoring
   of the Potomac above the community of Kempton to identify sites for
   potential stream loss due to subsidence in the Kempton Mine.

   The Land Reclamation Committee was formed in 1967 through Maryland
   legislation. The Committee is composed of 13 members representing the
   mining industry, soil conservation districts, counties, citizens, and
   State agencies. The Committee studies, recommends, and approves
   procedures to reclaim, conserve, and replant land affected by coal
   mining in Maryland. This includes review of mining and reclamation
   plans, progress reports, and final reports. It establishes plans and
   procedures, as well as practical guidelines, for prompt and sufficient
   reclamation, conservation, and revegetation of all lands disturbed by
   coal mining within the State. The committee meets periodically and OSM
   attends the meetings. Six Land Reclamation Committee meetings were held
   during the evaluation year.

   Regulatory Participation

   Under the Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR), the public can formally
   participate in the regulatory program by requesting hearings on the
   issuance of permits and bond releases, petitioning to have areas
   designated as unsuitable for mining, requesting inspections of active
   coal mine operations when there is reason to believe a violation is
   occurring, requesting pre-blast surveys if living within one-half mile
   of a permit area, and appealing Departmental decisions through the
   adjudicatory process.

   Impacts/Results of Public Participation

   The public has become increasingly involved in the reclamation of
   abandoned mine sites and elimination of AMD in Maryland, primarily
   through the ACSI and Watershed Cooperative Agreement Programs. Public
   conservation groups involved in Maryland projects so far include:

   The Nature Conservancy
   Conservation Fund
   Canaan Valley Institute
   Fresh Water Institute
   Georges Creek Watershed Association
   Shepherd College
   Westmar High School
   Youghiogheny River Watershed Association
   Western Maryland Resource Conservation Development Council
   Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin

   These groups, along with assistance from Maryland and OSM, have
   combined to undertake 12 projects totaling more than $1.6 million in
   total funding and in-kind contributions. More than 20 miles of
   AMD-impacted streams will be restored under these projects.

   IV. Major Accomplishments/Issues/Innovations in the Maryland Program.

   Maryland continues to be successful in achieving the purposes of SMCRA.
   The Maryland program is firmly established, the public's rights and
   interests are being protected, mining is being conducted effectively,
   efficiently, and in an environmentally sound manner, and abandoned mine
   lands are being reclaimed. In addition to these general measures of
   success, Maryland has been actively involved in several program
   improvement initiatives and activities. These are discussed below,
   along with outstanding issues and concerns which are being addressed in
   a mutual effort to maintain a high level of quality in the Maryland
   program.

   Title V - Maryland's Title V program has remained effective in the
   planning, mining, and reclamation of active sites. Maryland continues
   to work toward refining and improving existing processes and
   procedures, as well as taking innovative measures in establishing new
   programs:

   Processes - Maryland has made a concerted effort during the evaluation
   period to improve processes and procedures which have been identified
   as issues:

   Water monitoring - MDE has implemented periodic evaluation of
   operators' water monitoring results.

   SOAP - MDE has increased services under the program and made changes in
   the application process to assure that rights-of-entry are provided and
   test boring locations are identified.

   Grants Management - MDE has improved grants management by bringing
   closeout actions up to date.

   Database System - Maryland has continued to upgrade and improve their
   Title V ADP database system, which allows for increased ability to
   identify issues and trends under the approved program.

   Citizen Complaints - MDE has improved the citizen complaint process by
   assuring those complaints forwarded from other agencies are treated in
   the same manner and priority as those directly received by MDE.

   Inspection Reports - MDE has improved the process by implementing a new
   ADP system which ensures reports are complete and receipt by the
   permittee is documented.

   Hydrologic Impacts - MDE has revised procedures to more clearly define
   the level of damage protection provided, and is considering ways to
   ensure all hydrologic and geologic information is present in the file
   and application, that supporting data is better referenced, and that
   impacts of other mining operations are considered.

   Remining

   During the evaluation period, 61 percent of the oversight inspections
   with MDE were active or reclaimed remining operations that either
   involved the "day lighting" of abandoned underground workings or
   abandoned surface features such as highwalls and spoil materials. On
   the 11 sites where some form of remining has occurred, five completed
   sites comprising 342 acres were reclaimed. These acres were comprised
   primarily of underground mine workings. On the remaining six sites
   where mining is actively occurring, 564 acres have been affected which
   involved some form of remining, primarily day lighting. Maryland
   continues to promote remining operations to the coal industry through
   various incentives such as reduced bond liability periods and
   alternative water quality standards for remining operations that impact
   a pre-existing discharge. During the evaluation period, there were no
   specific remining permits issued. In July of 2000, an AML Enhancement
   program amendment was received from Maryland that deals with changes to
   Maryland regulations by allowing for less than 50 percent funding for
   abandoned mine reclamation projects in conjunction with planned coal
   extraction. The Final Rule has been sent for publication in the Federal
   Register. OSM routinely held quarterly meetings with MDE during the
   evaluation period and discussed various remining issues. OSM will
   continue to pursue remining with MDE during the next evaluation year
   with possible new remining incentives being explored.

   Program Amendments

   During the evaluation period Maryland progressed toward finalization of
   three program amendments.

   The first amendment ( MD-581-00 ) dealt with various aspects of haul
   road design, certification, and static safety controls. It was
   submitted to OSM for programmatic and technical review on May 27, 1999.
   After several revisions, the final rule was published on .November 22,
   1999. Maryland is y in the process of promulgating regulations.

   The next amendment, the AML Enhancement Rule ( MD-582-00 ), was
   submitted to OSM on . July 10, 2000. The proposed rule allows for AML
   projects to be funded with less than 50 percent federal dollars. OSM
   has approved the amendment , completed the comment period , and
   submitted the amendment for final publication in the Federal Register.

   The third amendment, a "various issues" amendment ( MD-577-01 ), was
   required as part of a 30 CFR 732 action. It was submitted to OSM on
   September 24, 1999, and published in the Federal Register on April 28,
   2000. An issue dealing with inspection frequency at abandoned mine
   sites and the addition of a definition for these sites resulted in the
   proposed amendment being republished in the Federal Register for 15
   days. Proposed regulations were published in the Federal Register on
   October 4, 2000. Two issues dealing with technical standards for the
   design of siltation structures were not included in the original
   submission, but have now been submitted as an informal amendment (
   SPATS # MD-048 ) and are currently under review by OSM. The proposed
   changes deal with the use of technical standards contained in Natural
   Resource Conservation Service ( NRCS ) Technical Release No. 60.

   On August 22, 2000, OSM sent a 732 letter ( MD-583-00 ) to Maryland
   outlining changes required to their permanent regulatory program
   regarding Valid Existing Rights ( VER ). MDE responded to the letter by
   requesting additional time to submit information pending the results of
   a lawsuit challenging OSM's final rules. OSM is drafting a response to
   MDE.

   Four other program amendment issues remain to be finalized in Maryland.
   These include liability insurance, EPACT subsidence regulations,
   ownership and control, and actions by the Maryland legislature to
   ensure that each member of the Land Reclamation Committee ( LRC ) files
   a statement of employment and financial interest to be no less
   effective than the federal rule.

   During the 2001 evaluation year, OSM will be updating the status of all
   current program amendments in Maryland, determining the importance of
   each amendment, and developing a submission date for each outstanding
   amendment in coordination with the State.

   Title IV - With lessening coal reserves in Maryland and the resultant
   decrease in coal mining activities, Title IV abandoned mine land
   reclamation activities have taken on an increased role. Maryland has
   made good use of programs designed to reclaim land damaged by past
   mining practices and to alleviate the associated AMD problems. The
   following represents some of the accomplishments under the Title IV
   program.

   Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative

   Funding for ACSI projects in Maryland began in 1997 with the receipt of
   $100,000. Additional funds were received in 1998, 1999, and 2000 to
   work on water-related AMD problems. In addition to the $482,413 of OSM
   funding allocated to Maryland to date, other state, federal, and
   private groups have committed funding in the amount of $420,838, as
   well as in-kind contributions.

   The Elk Lick II, Elk Lick III, and Glotfelty AMD projects were
   completed during the review period. All three projects were funded in
   part or in whole by the Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative.

   [elklick2.gif]

   The Elk Lick II project involved the construction of an additional
   Alkalinity Producing Cell and an Oxidizing/Settling Pond. The
   additional cell will work in conjunction with the existing cell to
   treat an average of 40 gallons of AMD per minute.

   [md00a0{image0}.gif]

   The Elk Lick III AMD project involved the construction of two
   Alkalinity producing Cells, an Oxidizing/settling pond and a wetland.
   The system will treat an average of 40 gallons of AMD per minute.

   [glotfeltya.gif] The Glotfelty site was identified as one of the top
   four contributors of acid and metals to Cherry Creek as well as
   impacting five acres of pristine wetland immediately adjacent to the
   discharge. The 25 discharge of gallons per minute entered an unnamed
   tributary for a short distance before discharging to the mainstream of
   Cherry Creek, with a pH of 2.5, 60 mg/l of iron, 0.5 mg/l of aluminum,
   and a net acidity of 270 mg/l. The adverse impacts from this drainage
   were documented on the native biota and water quality for more than one
   mile downstream. The Glotfelty Project design was based on the
   evaluation of the water quality parameters. Construction consisted of a
   series of alkaline producing systems (an ALD and a SAPS) separated by
   metal oxidation ponds and treatment wetlands, and final discharge was
   into the natural wetlands along Cherry Creek. To promote increased
   precipitation of the iron, a windmill-powered air pump was installed at
   the oxidation pond to quickly and thoroughly aerate the discharge. The
   operation of the windmill has resulted in a better discharge from the
   oxidation pond, which reduces system flushing and maintenance of the
   entire system. The wetlands at the site and the treatment system banks
   were seeded with Red Top (Agrostis alba), Rough-stalked Bluegrass (Pog
   trivialis), Wild Millet (Echinochloa crysgalli), and Switch Grass
   (Panicum virgatum). Post-construction water sampling has documented
   that the treatment system discharges to Cherry Creek net alkaline with
   a pH of at least 6.0, iron concentrations between three and 6 mg/l, and
   aluminum less than 0.1 mg/l. The improved discharge of net alkaline,
   low metal water has allowed one mile of Cherry Creek and several acres
   of Sphagnum spp. bog wetland to begin recovery from decades of AMD
   impacts. [md00a0{image1}.gif]

   Three additional ACSI projects are planned for an award during the next
   evaluation year. These include the Potomac Hill Run AMD, the Georges
   Creek Elementary School AMD, and the Coney Cleaners AMD Projects. The
   Coney Cleaners project, which will treat approximately 30 gallons per
   minute flow of AMD discharge, will complement plans by other
   environmental groups that are underway for development and preservation
   of the historic Lonaconing Silk Mill and Coal Heritage Trail project.
   This project is adjacent to the Coney Cleaners project. The Coal
   Heritage Trail project involves the Maryland Historical Trust, Maryland
   Scenic Byways, C&O Canal National Historic Park, Brunswick RR, Friends
   of the Potomac, and the National Park Service as part of the Potomac
   American Heritage River Initiative.

   Under the ACSI program, The Georges Creek Watershed Association was
   selected as one of the sponsors for the Summer Watershed Internship
   Program. An intern was selected to work for the Association during the
   summer of 2000. The intern carried out such duties as water sampling
   and stream monitoring, meeting coordination, watershed planning, and
   public awareness for the Association. In coordination with the State of
   Maryland Abandoned Mine Lands Division, the Association can develop
   future AMD projects using information and data collected by the intern.
   Four additional ACSI-FUNDED projects were approved during the
   evaluation year. These projects include an amendment to the Mill Run
   AMD Remediation project, the Fazenbaker project, the Kempton man shaft
   project, and the Teets project. Various partners exist for all of the
   planned ACSI projects. These partners provide either funding or
   volunteer and in-kind services.

   The following table summarizes project accomplishments under the ACSI
   in Maryland since its inception in 1997:

                        MARYLAND ACSI PROJECT STATUS

   Project/State Status
   as of:

                          Miles of Stream *(miles)
   Total
   Estimated Cost OSM Funding Planned Partners' Contributions*
   OSM/Partners
   Cumm. Total to date

                               To be Restored
   Completed by
   FY Cumm.to date

   Glotfelty
   (FY97) completed 8/24/00 4 4 $81,618 $36,618 $36,618 Environmental
   Protection Agency $45,000 $81,618
   Natl. Mine Land Rec. Ctr. - Tech. Suppt. in-kind
   Potomac Hill Run
   (FY99) 8/24/00 2 0 $150,000 $25,000 $25,000 Small Streams/Estuaries
   $75,000 $150,000
   Title IV AML funds $50,000
   Elk Lick III
   (FY00)
   completed 6/8/00 2 2 $54,599 $20,000 $20,000 Maryland Small Creek and
   Estuaries $45,000 $54,599
   U.S. DOE $5,000
   Garrett County $5,000
   Coney AMD
   (FY00) 9/30/99 1 0 $86,000 $21,500 $21,500 Maryland Small
   Creeks/Estuaries $64,500 $86,000
   Allegany County in-kind
   Elk Lick II
   (FY00)
   completed 6/8/00 2 2 $62,199 $21,861 $21,861 Maryland Small
   Creeks/Estuaries & MDE $40,338 $62,199
   Rock Lodge
   (FY99) 8/24/00 .5 0 $80,000 $40,000 $40,000 EPA $40,000 $80,000
   Neff Run
   (FY00) 6/8/00 2 0 $131,000 $100,000 $100,000 MD State Highways $16,000
   $151,000
   Project Impact $5,000
   Trout Unlimited $10,000
   Maryland Small Creeks/Estuaries $20,000
   TOTAL
   13.5 8 $645,416 $264,979 $420,838 $665,416

   Watershed Cooperative Agreement Program

   [md00a0{image2}.gif] The Watershed Cooperative Agreement Program, an
   offshoot of the ACSI program, was developed by OSM in 1999 as a means
   of directly funding not-for-profit groups who are interested in
   eliminating AMD. Maryland has become an active participant in the
   program. Since its inception, Maryland has partnered with such groups
   as The Nature Conservancy, The Conservation Fund, The Georges Creek
   Watershed Association, Canaan Valley Institute, and other private,
   state, and federal groups to address AMD problems. In 1999, Maryland
   and its partners received $145,000 in funding to do the Mill Run
   Diversion Well Project and the Everhart Seep Project. The Mill Run
   Project is expected to go to construction during the fall of 2000. The
   Everhart Project is currently under construction. Total combined
   funding for both of these projects from all partners was $467,800.
   During this evaluation year, three additional projects were funded
   through the combined efforts of the Georges Creek Watershed
   Association, The Western Maryland Resource Conservation and Development
   Council, Inc., The State of Maryland, The Youghiogheny River Watershed
   Association and many others. Funding from the Watershed Cooperative
   Program amounted to $ 213,000. An additional $ 304,000 was obtained
   from other watershed partners to fully fund the projects. The three
   projects include the Fazenbaker AMD treatment project in Allegany
   County, and the Teets AMD/Pyrolucite project and Kempton Man Shaft
   sealing project, both in Garrett County. The following table summarizes
   project accomplishments under the Watershed Cooperative Agreement
   Program in Maryland since its inception in 1999:


                             MARYLAND WATERSHED
                            COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT
                               PROJECT STATUS

   Project/
   State Status
   as of:

                          Miles of Stream *(miles)
   Total
   Estimated Cost OSM Funding Planned Partners' Contributions* OSM/
   Partners
   Cumm. Total to date

                               To be Restored
   Completed by
   FY Cumm.
   to date

   Everhart Seep (FY99)
   9/30/99
   2.5
   0
   $182,000
   $80,000
   $262,000
   MDE $57,500
   $182,800
   The Nature Conservancy $26,700
   GCC $18,600
   Mill Run
   Remediation
   (FY99)
   9/30/99
   3
   0
   $290,000
   $65,000
   $65,000 Conservation Fund in-kind
   $290,000
   Canaan Valley Institute $225,000
   Fresh Water Institute in-kind
   Mill Run Watershed in-kind
   MDE/ Shepherd College in-kind
   Teets 10/26/00 .5 0 $190,000 $80,000 $80,000 6 partners including
   WMRC&D, Youghiogheny River Watershed Association, MDE, Garrett Soil
   Conservation District, Buffalo Coal Company , Garrett County Health
   Dept. $110,000 $190,000
   Kempton 10/26/00 1 0 $206,000 $80,000 $80,000 8 partners including MD
   DNR Power Plant Research Program, Buffalo Coal, Mettike, MDE, Western
   Maryland Resource Conservation Development Council $125,500 including
   in-kind $205,500
   Fazenbaker 10/26/00 .5 0 $121,300 $53,000 $53,000 8 partners including
   Georges Creek Watershed Association, MDE, OSM, Westmar High School,
   Western Maryland Resource Conservation Development Council, and
   Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin $63,300 $121,300
   $5000 in-kind
   TOTAL   7.5 0 $989,300 $358,000 $540,000 22 $631,600 $989,600

   Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation

   During the 2000 evaluation year, the Maryland AML division completed
   work on two Title IV reclamation projects and one Title V bond
   forfeiture reclamation project. In addition, AML program staff have
   been updating the inventory of AML features in Maryland and entering
   data into the national Abandoned Mind Lands Information System (AMLIS)
   database. They have entered updated and new data for more than 300
   sites.

   [chestnutridge.gif] The Chestnut Ridge project in Garrett County
   involved the backfilling of a 20-acre abandoned surface mine with an
   abandoned highwall and a hazardous water body at a cost of $98,000.

   The Kyle Hill Water Supply Replacement Project involved the extension
   of a public water supply to provide a potable source of water to 27
   residences and an elementary school. The project covered a six- acre
   area and was done at a cost of $437,000.


   [md00a0{image3}.gif] The AML division also completed reclamation on a
   bond forfeiture site consisting of 57 acres of high- wall, acid spoil,
   and AMD. The site has been reclaimed at a cost of $408,000. An
   additional eight acres of the project will be reclaimed in the spring
   of 2001. The Division incorporated special spoil handling and limestone
   alkaline additions to the backfill to help prevent any post-reclamation
   discharges. The site is included in the National AMD Inventory.
   Follow-up activities in the next evaluation year will be done to
   ascertain whether the site can be removed due to MDE abatement actions.

   Maryland submitted six Title IV requests for Authorizations To Proceed
   (ATPs) to OSM for review and approval during the evaluation period. The
   requests were done under NEPA requirements for federally funded AML
   projects. Three of the reviews were done for regular Title IV projects
   and the other three were done for projects to be done under the ACSI
   program. With the exception of one project, all of the proposed
   projects involved some form of AMD treatment. AMD continues to be
   Western Maryland's major source of water pollution. Two of the proposed
   projects have been completed, two are under construction, and the two
   remaining projects are expected to be completed in 2001.

   V. Success in Achieving the Purposes of SMCRA as Measured by the Number
   of Observed Off-Site Impacts and the Number of Acres Meeting the
   Performance Standards at the Time of Bond Release.

   To further the concept of reporting end results, OSM is collecting the
   findings from performance standard evaluations for a national
   perspective in terms of the number and extent of observed off-site
   impacts, and the number of acres that have been mined and reclaimed
   that meet the bond release requirements for the various phases of
   reclamation. Individual topic reports which provide additional details
   on how the following evaluations and measurements were conducted are
   available in the Pittsburgh Oversight and Inspection Office.

   Off-Site Impacts

   During the evaluation period, OSM conducted a study to assess the
   number and severity of off-site impacts occurring as a result of
   surface and underground mining operations^(5). OSM selected 22 sites
   for the study. Of the 22 sites, 20 sites (91 percent) exhibited no
   off-site impacts. The remaining two sites had off-site impacts
   involving encroachment outside the permit boundary and sediment flowing
   off site through a breached diversion ditch. In addition to the 22
   joint MDE/OSM inspections conducted as part of the study, MDE conducted
   additional non-joint inspections in which four additional off-site
   impacts were observed. These impacts were associated with a sludge line
   which broke allowing coal fines to leave the permit area and enter a
   small stream. In another case, a mine operator encroached upon a
   prohibited area next to a high tension power line . The remaining two
   instances were related to discharges from a sediment pond that did not
   meet effluent standards. In each case, MDE took an enforcement action
   and the violation was abated and the violation terminated. Table 4
   summarizes the off-site impacts observed. No programmatic deficiencies
   were noted in either allowing impacts to occur or in mitigating impacts
   following occurrence.

   Reclamation Success

   OSM conducted a study to evaluate the effectiveness of ensuring
   successful reclamation on lands affected by surface coal mining
   operations^(6). Four reclamation parameters were evaluated; land
   form/approximate original contour (AOC), land capability, hydrologic
   reclamation, and contemporaneous reclamation. The study revealed that
   reclamation is generally effective and successful under the Maryland
   State Program. All nine evaluations met all criteria for AOC,
   hydrologic reclamation, and contemporaneous reclamation. Six of the
   nine evaluations met the criteria for land capability. One site had not
   replaced all topsoil, one site had not established successful
   vegetation, and one site had not met criteria for leaving a permanent
   impoundment and road. [md00a0{image4}.gif] During OIO's evaluation for
   Maryland bond release activities, as indicated in Table 5,
   approximately 73 percent of the bond released was for phase II
   (25percent) and phase III (48 percent). Twenty-seven percent of bond
   released was for phase I. This imbalance is expected partly because,
   under Maryland's bonding system, phase I bond does not cover the entire
   permit area as phases II and III do. Rather, it covers only the
   disturbed area, then "floats" to a new area after backfilling and
   grading on the disturbed area are completed. Thus, phase I bond is
   released only for the last parcel disturbed, rather than for the entire
   permit area. Figure 1 shows that newly permitted acreage has outpaced
   phase I release, backfilled acreage over the last five years.

   Customer Service

   OSM evaluates customer service annually as part of our oversight of
   surface coal mining and reclamation programs. During the evaluation
   year, OSM reviewed^(7) Maryland's customer service in responding to
   citizen complaints involving the use of explosives on mine sites. The
   objectives of the study were to evaluate MDE's response to citizen
   blasting complaints to ensure compliance with the Maryland-approved
   program and to look at the technical aspects of how blasting complaints
   are reviewed. The study revealed that Maryland is in compliance with
   all requirements of the approved program for the three complaints
   received.

   VI. OSM Assistance

   Upon request, OSM provides various types of assistance to Maryland in
   the form of technical, managerial, financial, and training assistance.
   OSM provided the following assistance to Maryland during the evaluation
   period:

   Financial Assistance

   [md00a0{image5}.gif] As shown in table 9 (Appendix A), OSM awarded
   $477,333 in Title V regulatory assistance funding during fiscal year
   2000. This is in addition to the $661,959 awarded for the Title IV
   abandoned mine lands reclamation program and $35,000 for the Small
   Operator Assistance Program. From program inception to the end of
   fiscal year 2000, OSM has granted Maryland approximately $32.1 million
   net awards. Of this amount, $.5 million was for the Small Operator
   Assistance Program (SOAP), $6.9 million for regulatory operations, and
   $24.7 million for abandoned mine land reclamation projects. Figure 2
   shows comparative grant awards for the three program areas over the
   last five fiscal years.

   Technical Assistance

   OSM conducted two technical assistance investigations for Maryland
   during the review period. Both investigations involved mine subsidence
   and whether subsidence had occurred as a result of longwall mining.
   Both investigations were done with the assistance of the Program
   Support Division of the Appalachian Regional Coordinating Center. The
   one investigation determined that mining had not resulted in damage to
   the dwelling. In the second case, it was determined that mining had
   caused damage to the dwelling. The company involved began corrective
   measures with the landowners.

   OSM provided another form of assistance through the development of a
   [md00a0{image6}.gif] comprehensive atlas of coal-related activities in
   the State of Maryland. The atlas incorporates map views of active mine
   sites, abandoned sites and acid impaired streams. The atlas was
   produced in conjunction with records provided by the State of Maryland
   and the OSM Division of Technical Support. A copy of the report was
   provided to the State.

   In addition, OSM conducted four Federal Reclamation Program emergency
   investigations during the period. Two of these emergencies have been
   eliminated through the implementation of Federal projects. One of the
   projects was later determined to be non-mining related after further
   technical investigation. The last project, while mining related, will
   be corrected by the state.

   VII. General Oversight Topic Reviews

   In addition to the studies to assess off-site impacts, evaluate the
   effectiveness in achieving successful reclamation, and review the
   handling of blasting complaints, OSM conducted four additional studies
   during the evaluation period per the OSM/MDE evaluation year 2000 work
   plan. OSM will work with MDE in the next evaluation period to resolve
   issues raised as a result of these studies:

   Revegetation Success Evaluation Tools

   OSM conducted a study to evaluate MDE methodologies used in determining
   the success of phase II and phase III revegetation for compliance with
   Maryland's approved mining and reclamation program^(8). MDE currently
   uses a visual estimating technique for evaluating the success of phase
   II and phase III vegetation in Maryland. The study found that this
   technique has been successful in determining whether or not to release
   bond on sites with either heavy or sparse ground cover^(9). However,
   visual estimating techniques are neither statistically valid,
   repeatable, nor highly accurate. Both federal and State regulations
   require that standards of success be judged using, ". . . a 90 percent
   statistical confidence interval." Because a visual estimating technique
   cannot be used to meet this requirement, it was determined that
   Maryland should adopt statistically valid measurement techniques such
   as those referred to and/or demonstrated in the study.

   Permit Findings

   OSM conducted a study during the evaluation period to determine whether
   Maryland makes written findings required for permit issuance under the
   approved Mining and Reclamation Program, and to assess the level of
   documentation of the findings^(10). Study data show that Maryland
   generally makes and supports required written findings. The only
   findings which were not made and/or fully supported applied to permits
   having site-specific conditions. These findings apply to existing
   structures, augering operations, and remining permits. Two of these
   involving augering and remining included neither the State regulation
   which requires the finding nor the finding itself in the permit file.
   The third involving existing structures included a State regulation
   which required the finding, but the finding itself was absent. Also,
   Maryland does not provide a rationale connecting support to a finding.
   This absence of specific findings and support makes it difficult to
   determine whether a permitting decision is arbitrary or capricious as
   defined by the Administrative Procedure Act^(11). To meet the
   "arbitrary and capricious" standard, the Regulatory Authority must
   examine relevant data, articulate a satisfactory explanation for its
   action, and include in the satisfactory explanation a rational
   connection between the facts found and the choice made as part of the
   decision- making document.

   Reclamation Liability Review

   On December 16, 1998, Winner Brothers Coal Company filed a Plan for
   Reorganization under Chapter 11 bankruptcy procedures. This company's
   holdings represent 23 percent of the total number of permits in
   Maryland. To determine the impact, if any, on the existing bond pool if
   the State was required to perform reclamation work at the sites, OSM
   conducted a study during the evaluation period^(12). The study focused
   on the bonding and reclamation liability of 15 permits operated by
   Winner Brothers. A team of Maryland and OSM employees conducted the
   study. The team gathered data on the permit status, reclamation
   liability status, historic production, and violation history of the
   sites. Based on reclamation cost estimates conducted in March 1999,
   Maryland's alternative bonding system^(13) was insufficient to reclaim
   all Winner Brothers Coal Company and Masteller Coal permits. The
   deficit at that time was estimated at $356,573. Subsequent to the March
   estimate, Winner Brothers entered into a consent agreement with
   Maryland to protect the public interest and ensure reclamation of all
   permits. Included in the Consent Agreement was an Asset Purchase
   Agreement between Winner Brothers and United Energy, Inc. to transfer
   ownership, control, and reclamation responsibility of eight Winner
   Brothers permits to United, including two Winner Brothers permits
   carrying the greatest reclamation liability. As a result, it is now
   estimated that site-specific bond alone is sufficient to cover the cost
   of reclamation of the remaining Winner Brothers permit sites with no
   impact to the bond supplement pool.

   Performance Monitoring Study

   OSM conducted a study during the evaluation period^(14) to assess the
   impact of planning, mining, and reclamation activities on the
   effectiveness of the Maryland Program in meeting the goals of the
   SMCRA. Twenty permitting, mining, and reclamation standards on eighteen
   permit sites were evaluated for compliance with MDE program
   requirements. All sites were in compliance with all standards, with the
   following exceptions:

   Bond Coverage - One permit included a disturbance outside the bonded
   area where diversion ditches were being installed. The off-site impact
   was considered minor and MDE wrote a notice of violation on May 10,
   2000, for correction by the operator. The operator took corrective
   measures and the violation was terminated on May 16, 2000.

   Drainage Control Treatment, Monitoring, and Certification - One permit
   exhibited off-site damage as a result of a breached diversion ditch
   which occurred as a result of a major storm event. This resulted in
   several hundred tons of spoil and coal materials traveling off-site
   into a wooded area and beyond, impacting a soccer field, maintenance
   building, and public street. The impact was evaluated as a major
   hydrologic and encroachment impact to land, moderate to structures, and
   minor to water. MDE wrote a notice of violation requiring the operator
   to repair the damages and diversion. A follow-up inspection noted that
   most repairs had occurred. Another permit exhibited minor off-site
   sedimentation as a result of a major storm event which exceeded
   ten-year storm design requirements for sediment structures. In this
   instance, the operator was given an opportunity to correct
   sedimentation problems. A follow-up inspection revealed that the
   operator had taken corrective measures.

   Resoiling - One site exhibited a failure to redistribute two topsoil
   piles. The entire area, including soil piles, included well-established
   vegetative cover. MDE determined that spreading the remaining topsoil
   would cause more environmental harm than benefit, and subsequently
   approved phase III reclamation. OSM concurred that no further action
   was necessary.

   Hydrologic Quantity, Quality, and Recharge Capacity Restoration - One
   permit did not have required quarterly ground water flow measurements
   submitted for five sites. MDE issued a notice of violation for this
   failure. Another permit had a seep exhibiting high iron and low pH. The
   seep required treatment via an anoxic limestone drain prior to
   discharge from the permit. This seep is preventing release of bond on
   this site. A third permit did not have required flow recorded for seven
   of the eight monitoring points. MDE issued a notice of violation.
   Historically Maryland has exhibited an approximate 99 percent
   compliance rate with the standards evaluated by OSM.

   The Maryland program is effectively meeting the reclamation objectives
   of SMCRA. The Oversight and Inspection Office looks forward to
   continuing a partnership with Maryland in achieving the mutual goals of
   protecting citizens and the environment from the adverse effects of
   coal mining, while recognizing the need for coal production in meeting
   the nation's energy needs.

                                 APPENDIX A

   These tables present data pertinent to mining operations and State and
   Federal regulatory activities within Maryland. They also summarize
   funding provided by OSM and Maryland staffing. Unless otherwise
   specified, the reporting period for the data contained in all tables is
   October 1, 1999, to September 30, 2000. Additional data used by OSM in
   its evaluation of Maryland's performance is available for review in the
   evaluation files maintained by the Pittsburgh OIO Office.
     __________________________________________________________________


                                   TABLE 1

                               Coal Production
                          (Millions of short tons)
                       Period
                                  Surface
                                   mines
                                         Underground
                                            mines
                                                    Total
                     Coal production^A for entire State:
                    Annual Period
                    1997            0.9      3.3     4.2
                        1998        0.8      3.3     4.1
                        1999        0.7      3.2     3.9
                                  2.4        9.8     12.2

   ^A Coal production as reported in this table is the gross tonnage which
   includes coal that is sold, used or transferred as reported to OSM by
   each mining company on form OSM-1 line 8(a). Gross tonnage does not
   provide for a moisture reduction. OSM verifies tonnage reported through
   routine auditing of mining companies. This production may vary from
   that reported by States or other sources due to varying methods of
   determining and reporting coal production.

     __________________________________________________________________

                                   TABLE 2
                              Inspectable Units
                          As of September 30, 2000
                                 Coal mines
                                 and related
                   facilities Number and status of permits
                                Insp. Unit^D
                             Permitted acreage^A
                             (hundreds of acres)
                   Active or temporarily inactive Inactive
                                  Abandoned
                                   Totals
                            Phase II bond release
                     IP PP IP PP IP PP IP PP IP PP Total
             STATE and PRIVATE LANDS REGULATORY AUTHORITY: STATE
                  Surface mines 0 47 0 6 0 0 0 53 0 0 51 51
                Underground mines 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0.8 0.8
                Other facilities 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0.1 0.1
                  Subtotals 0 56 0 6 0 0 0 62 0 0 51.9 51.9
                  FEDERAL LANDS REGULATORY AUTHORITY: STATE
                    Surface mines 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                  Underground mines 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                  Other facilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                      Subtotals 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                                ALL LANDS ^B
                                Surface mines
