http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s721.htm


     NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

              NOAA's NEW ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITE SNAPS FIRST IMAGE

     NOAA's first image of western hemisphere from new GOES-12 satellite
   taken August 17, 2001. August 17, 2001 — The nation's newest
   environmental satellite sent back its first clear, crisp image of the
   western hemisphere today, NOAA announced, which operates the satellite
   known as GOES-12. (NOAA's first image of western hemisphere from new
   GOES-12 satellite taken August 17, 2001.) [Click NOAA satellite image
   for larger view. Click here for very large view. Note: these are large
   files.]

   "GOES" stands for Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite.
   The GOES-12 was launched on July 23 from Cape Canaveral Air Force
   Station, Fla., and achieved geostationary orbit on August 12. It is the
   first of the NOAA satellites equipped with a Solar X-ray Imager, an
   instrument that can detect solar storms. GOES-12 will be stored in
   orbit and will replace either GOES-8 or GOES-10 as needed.

   The new weather satellite will view cloud patterns, measure temperature
   and moisture in the atmosphere, and monitor space weather for North and
   South America and portions of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The
   satellite follows the Earth's rotation, maintaining a constant position
   from out 22,300 miles in space.

   "The success of the GOES-12 will ensure the ongoing mission of our
   nation's environmental satellites, maintaining a constant vigil for the
   atmospheric "triggers" for severe weather conditions," said Kathy
   Kelly, director of satellite operations for NOAA's National
   Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service. "The GOES team
   is really excited about this first image. The fine-scale meteorological
   features stand out clearly. It's right on the mark."

   NOAA's National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service
   operates the GOES series of satellites from its Suitland, Md.,
   facility. After the satellites complete on-orbit checkout, NESDIS
   assumes responsibility for command and control, data receipt, and
   product generation and distribution. NESDIS is the nation's primary
   source of space-based meteorological and climate data. NESDIS'
   environmental satellites are used for weather forecasting, climate
   monitoring, and other environmental applications such as fire
   detection, ozone monitoring, and sea surface temperature measurements.

   Relevant Web Sites
   NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite
   NOAA's GOES Satellites — Latest USA weather images
   NOAA's Satellites Page
   Media Contact:
   Patricia Viets, NOAA Satellite Operations, (301) 457-5005
