http://www.nimh.nih.gov/outline/disclaim.htm

   [logo_underline.gif]

                        Disclaimer, Copyright, and Privacy Notice
                        [bluebox.gif]

   Copyright Information:

   The majority of information at this site is in the public domain.
   Unless stated otherwise, documents and files on NIH web servers can be
   freely downloaded and reproduced. Most documents on this server are
   sponsored by the NIH; however, you may encounter documents that were
   sponsored along with private companies and other organizations.
   Accordingly, other parties may retain all rights to publish or
   reproduce these documents or to allow others to do so. Some documents
   available from this server may be protected under the United States and
   foreign copyright laws. Permission to reproduce may be required.

   Disclaimer of Liability: For documents available from this server, the
   U.S. Government does not warrant or assume any legal liability or
   responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
   information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed.
   Disclaimer of Endorsement

   -- General --
   NIMH does not endorse or recommend any commercial products, processes,
   or services. The views and opinions of authors expressed on NIMH
   Websites do not necessarily state or reflect those of the U.S.
   Government, and they may not be used for advertising or product
   endorsement purposes.
   -- External Links --
   Some NIMH sites may provide links to other Internet sites only for the
   convenience of World Wide Web users. NIMH is not responsible for the
   availability or content of these external sites, nor does NIMH endorse,
   warrant or guarantee the products, services or information described or
   offered at these other Internet sites. Medical Information: It is not
   the intention of NIMH to provide specific medical advice, but rather to
   provide users with information to better understand their mental health
   and diagnosed disorders. Specific medical advice will not be provided,
   and NIMH urges you to consult with a qualified mental health or health
   care provider for diagnosis and for answers to your personal questions.
   Privacy Notice: This Web site is provided as a public service by the
   National Institute of Mental Health.

     * Of the information we learn about you from your visit to
       "http://www.nimh.nih.gov" we store only the following: the domain
       name from which you access the Internet, the date and time, the
       Internet address of the web site from which you linked directly to
       our site, the name of the file or the words you searched, and the
       browser used to access our site. This information is used to
       measure the number of visitors to the various sections of our site
       and identify system performance or problem areas. We also use this
       information to help us expand the coverage of the site to assist
       users in finding health information.
     * We do not give, share, sell or transfer any personal information to
       a third party.
     * When inquiries are e-mailed to us, we store the question and the
       e-mail address information so that we can respond electronically.
       Unless otherwise required by statute, we do not identify publicly
       who sends questions or comments to our web site. We will not obtain
       information that will allow us to personally identify you when you
       visit our site, unless you chose to provide such information to us.
     * We currently do not use computer "cookies" for public access to the
       website.

   Questions about NIH privacy policies should be sent to the NIH Privacy
   Act Officer.


      | NIMH Home | Welcome | News and Events | Clinical Trials | Funding
                                Opportunities |
            For the Public | For Practitioners | For Researchers |




    For information about NIMH and its programs, please send email to
    nimhinfo@nih.gov
    Send website questions to nimhwebmaster@mail.nih.gov
    This page was posted: January 8, 1997.
