http://www.osc.gov/documents/osc_d12.htm


   OSC Seal

                                U.S. Office of Special Counsel

                                1730 M Street, N.W., Suite 300

                                  Washington, D.C. 20036-4505

                    STATEMENT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL ELAINE KAPLAN
                  BEFORE SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY,
                        PROLIFERATION AND FEDERAL SERVICES
                                   JULY 25, 2001
        __________________________________________________________________

        Good afternoon. I would like to thank the Committee for giving me
   the opportunity to participate in todays hearing concerning S. 995, a
   bill that would strengthen the effectiveness and enforcement of the
   Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA). I would also like to publicly thank
   you Senator Akaka, as well as Senators Levin and Grassley, for your
   leadership on this issue and your commitment to ensuring that the WPA
   fulfills its original promise to protect federal employee
   whistleblowers.
        As you know, a primary mission of the Office of Special Counsel
   (OSC)the agency I headis to protect federal employee whistleblowers
   against retaliation. We do our job by investigating employees
   complaints, by pursuing remedies on behalf of whistleblowers, and by
   seeking the discipline of agency officials who engage in retaliation.
   In addition, we also educate other federal agencies and the public
   about whistleblower protection and the important contribution
   whistleblowers make to the public interest.
        The bill before the Committee today, S. 995, has been conceived in
   the wake of several decisions issued by the Court of Appeals for the
   Federal Circuit which have narrowed the scope of the protection
   provided to whistleblowers under the WPA. This is not the first time
   that Congress has been confronted with concerns about the Federal
   Circuits approach to this particular law.
        Thus, Congress harshly criticized that Courts decisionmaking in
   1989 when the WPA was enacted, and did so again five years later, in
   1994, during consideration of the Office of Special Counsel
   Reauthorization Act. At that time, the House Committee observed that
   the case law developed by the Federal Circuit represented a steady
   attack on achieving the legislative mandate for effective whistleblower
   protection; and that, realistically it is impossible to overturn
   destructive precedents as fast as they are issued . . .
        Notwithstanding this strong criticism, the Federal Circuit
   continues to routinely read the WPAs protections narrowly. For example,
   in Lachance v. White, 174 F.3d 1378 (Fed. Cir. 1999), the Court raised
   the bar for whistleblowers seeking to establish that their disclosures
   qualify them for protection, by endorsing what it called an
   irrefragable presumption, that government officials discharge their
   duties properly and lawfully. Moreover, in that case, the Court
   suggested that it is appropriate to examine a whistleblowers personal
   motivations in deciding whether he should receive the Acts protection.
   174 F.3d at 1381. We agree with the sponsors of S. 995 that Lachance
   and other Federal Circuit decisions establish unduly narrow and
   restrictive tests for determining whether employees qualify for the
   protection of the WPA.
        In addition, I would like to express our strong support for the
   provisions of the Act that would grant the Special Counsel independent
   litigating authority and the right to request judicial review of Merit
   Systems Protection Board (MSPB or Board) decisions in cases that will
   have a substantial impact upon the enforcement of the WPA. I firmly
   believe that both of these changes are necessary, not only to ensure
   OSCs effectiveness, but to address the continuing concerns that
   motivate S. 995: the whittling away of the WPAs protections by narrow
   judicial interpretations of the law. The basis for my belief is set
   forth in some detail in OSCs accompanying statement in support of S.
   995, which I would ask be included in the record.
        To summarize briefly, while the current statutory scheme gives OSC
   a central role as public prosecutor in cases before the MSPB, OSC has
   no authority to seek judicial review of an erroneous MSPB decision.
   Further, OSCs ability to influence even the MSPBs interpretation of the
   law is limited because the majority of MSPB cases that involve
   important interpretations of the WPA arise out of individual right of
   action cases to which OSC is not a party. Under existing law, OSC has
   no right to ask the Board to reconsider its decision in such cases,
   much less a right to ask a court to review them.
        Ironically, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has the
   authority to seek judicial review of MSPB decisions in any case where
   the Boards decision will have a substantial impact upon the
   interpretation of civil service laws, rules, and regulations, including
   the WPA. Further, OPM has the authority to ask the MSPB to reconsider a
   decision after it has been issued, again even if OPM was not originally
   a party to the case. OPMs primary concern is not the protection of
   whistleblowers. Indeed, it was OPM that brought the Lachance v. White
   case to the Federal Circuit, and it was OPM, represented by the Justice
   Department, that urged the Court to adopt a narrow interpretation of
   the Act.
        S. 995 provides the Special Counsel with authority similar to OPMs
   to ask the Board for reconsideration and to seek judicial review in
   important cases. It would ensure that the government agency charged
   with protecting whistleblowers will have an equal opportunity to
   participate in the shaping of the law. OSC would serve as a
   counterweight to the Justice Department, whose client is most often the
   federal agency defending itself against retaliation charges. In a case
   like Lachance v. White, it would have meant that the Court could have
   had the benefit of OSCs perspective as the agency charged with
   enforcing the WPA. We would have told the Court that imposing an
   irrefragable presumption against whistleblowers who seek the Acts
   protection undermines Congressional intent and our ability to do our
   job.
        Moreover, by granting OSC independent litigating authority, the
   bill also ensures that OSC will be able to craft its own positions and
   advocate on its own behalf when WPA cases reach the court of appeals.
   Under existing law, the Special Counsel must be represented by the
   Justice Department in all court proceedings. This has effectively led
   to OSC being shut out of the vast majority of appellate court cases
   which involve the interpretation of the WPA. DOJs position is that
   because OSC lacks independent litigating authority, it cannot
   participate as an intervenor or amicus curiae, where another party has
   invoked the jurisdiction of the court of appeals in a whistleblower
   retaliation case.
        DOJ has agreed that OSC can participate as a party in a limited
   category of caseswhere it is defending an MSPB order of discipline
   against a retaliating agency manager. But even in such cases, OSC must
   be represented by DOJ attorneys.
        While the attorneys at DOJ are highly professional and competent,
   it is entirely unacceptable for DOJ to make final decisions about how
   OSC cases should be briefed and argued. Not only does OSC routinely
   investigate and prosecute cases of retaliation against DOJ and its
   component agencies, DOJ attorneys routinely represent agencies in the
   Federal Circuit against charges of retaliation. Its institutional
   interests are directly in conflict with those of OSC. If OSC is to be a
   truly independent watchdog, then the Special Counsel (and not DOJs
   Civil Division) must have the authority to decide what arguments to
   make, and what positions to take, in the court of appeals.
        In short, under current law, the Special Counselwhom Congress
   intended would be a vigorous, independent, advocate for the protection
   of whistleblowerscan scarcely participate at all in the arena in which
   the law is largely shaped--the Court of Appeals for the Federal
   Circuit. Further, when OSC does appear in that Court, it must be
   represented by an agency OSC routinely investigates, through attorneys
   whose exposure to the WPA otherwise occurs only when they argue cases
   on behalf of agencies accused of engaging in retaliation.
        Need I say more? Congress has consistently expressed its intention
   that OSC take an aggressive role in protecting whistleblowers against
   retaliation. In the three years since I became Special Counsel, the
   staff and I have attempted to do whatever was possible, within very
   limited resources, to achieve that goal. I believe that we have made
   great progress in the last three years toward increasing OSCs
   effectiveness and that we have reassured many of our staunchest former
   critics that OSC is deeply committed to its mission. We would urge the
   Committee, therefore, to provide us with the tools we need to do the
   job right, by affording OSC both the authority to request judicial
   review and independent litigating authority.
