http://www.inel.gov/partnerships/

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory
   Security/Privacy
   HOME | Site Index | Staff Directory | Jobs | Contact Us
   _______________ [go.gif]


   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory Home Page

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002

   [pixel.gif] [pixel.gif] [pixel.gif]

                           Working with the INEEL


   Working with the INEEL
   INEEL Partnerships
   Related links: Partnering mechanisms, Research Initiatives


                                                              What's New
                    National Labs to Collaborate on Science and Technology

                               -Announcement-

                                                         [pixel_gold.gif]

   Collaboration between the INEEL and other DOE laboratories and sites
   provides significantly enhanced complexwide capabilities to support
   DOE's strategic objectives. In response to new opportunities and
   continuing technical challenges, the INEEL is seeking the most
   effective teams to solve problems. Research and Development and
   operations collaborations among DOE laboratories and sites often lead
   to much broader collaborations with other federal agencies,
   universities, private companies, and foreign organizations.

   In addition to R&D and operations collaborations, the INEEL works with
   other DOE laboratories to improve business and operations practices.
   Current activities include improved integration of the laboratories
   into DOE strategic planning, consistent incorporation of
   performance-based management principles into the contracts between DOE
   and laboratory operators, and more effective communication of the
   laboratories' accomplishments and their value. Below summarizes
   examples of the INEEL's more notable direct R&D and operations
   collaborations and how they support DOE missions.

   As a managing partner in the INEEL, the Inland Northwest Research
   Alliance (INRA) plays a strategic role in the education and research
   decisions at the laboratory. The mission of INRA at the INEEL is: (a)
   to build successful, multidisciplinary research and education programs;
   (b) collaboratively compete for new research funding; and (c)
   facilitate the development of associated programs at the INRA
   institutions.

   Additionally, the INEEL partners with other DOE laboratories as
   summarized below:
   Environmental Quality
   Waste Management Hanford Site, National Energy Technology Lab, Oak
   Ridge, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Sandia, Savannah River
   Site, West Valley Demonstration Project Provide program planning,
   operations, and integration services. Perform applied research and
   technology development for high-priority needs in high, mixed, and
   low-level waste management programs. Results from these activities
   support DOE Environmental Quality objectives to safely manage nuclear
   materials, and permanently dispose of radioactive wastes.
   Environmental Restoration Hanford Site, National Energy Technology Lab,
   Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Sandia, Savannah River Site
   Provide program planning, operations, and integration services. Perform
   applied research and technology development, demonstrations, and
   deployments for high-priority needs in environmental restoration
   programs. Results from these activities support DOE Environmental
   Quality objectives to aggressively clean up the legacy of nuclear
   weapons and civilian nuclear R&D programs.
   Spent Nuclear Fuel Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Savannah
   River Site Provide program planning, operations, and integration
   services. Perform applied research and technology development,
   demonstrations, and deployments for high-priority needs in spent
   nuclear fuel programs. Results from these activities support DOE
   Environmental Quality objectives to safely manage spent nuclear fuel,
   and permanently dispose of radioactive wastes.
   Energy Resources
   Nuclear Argonne National Laboratory Implement the Nuclear Energy lead
   laboratory charter for nuclear reactor technology, and provide R&D and
   infrastructure to support NE's objectives to provide clean and
   affordable nuclear power.
   Energy Efficiency and Renewables National Renewable Energy Lab, Oak
   Ridge, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Sandia Provide program
   planning, integration support, research, and technology development for
   hydropower, geothermal, distributed power and industrial energy
   efficiency programs in support of EE objectives to provide clean and
   affordable power, and efficient and productive energy use.
   Fossil Argonne, Brookhaven, Lawrence Berkeley, Lawrence Livermore, Los
   Alamos, National Energy Technology Lab, Pacific Northwest National Lab,
   Oak Ridge and Sandia Perform research, technology development, and
   provide program planning and integration to support FE's objectives to
   provide a reliable and diverse energy supply, and clean and affordable
   power.
   National Security
   International Center for Environmental Safety (ISES) Argonne,
   Brookhaven, Lawrence Berkeley, Lawrence Livermore, Los Alamos, National
   Energy Technology Lab, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Oak Ridge
   and Sandia Establish and develop collaborative efforts within the
   former Soviet Union in the area of environmental safety and security
   that build upon the expertise and facilities of each partner. Determine
   roles and develop collaborative efforts with Russia in the area of
   spent fuel and material handling and disposition.
   Critical Infrastructure Protection Pacific Northwest National
   Laboratory Establish and develop collaborative efforts in regard to
   power systems and supporting infrastructure systems.
   Intelligence Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Establish and
   develop joint proposals within each laboratory's expertise that meet
   the mission needs of the intelligence community.
   Science and Technology
   Fueling the Future Ames, Argonne, Lawrence Berkeley, Lawrence
   Livermore, Los Alamos, Oak Ridge, Pacific Northwest National
   Laboratory, and Sandia Research in materials and sensors to support DOE
   Office of Science's Fueling the Future objectives to provide clean and
   affordable power, and efficient energy use.
   Contacts:   Dr. Richard Jacobsen
               Department R&D Director and Chief Scientist
               208-526-4435
               jacor@inel.gov
   Page contact: Diane Stults, webmaster@inel.gov.

   [pixel.gif] [pixel_blk.gif]
   [pixel.gif] [pixel_grn.gif]
   Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2001
   For general inquiries about the INEEL, please call 1-800-708-2680.
   © 2002 Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC. All rights reserved.
   Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC is an EEO/AA employer.
   Feedback
   The INEEL is operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   Click to visit DOE's website.
