http://ssdoo.gsfc.nasa.gov/c630/Overview_2001-2.pdf

   NSSDC/WDC-A-R&S 01/00 An Overview of the SSDOO SSDOO Space Science Data
   Operations Office 2001 Contents Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . v Space Science Data Operations Office (Code 630) . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
   Charter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Astrophysics Data Facility
   (Code 631) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   3 Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Charter . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 3 Major Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Selected
   Recent Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . 5 Space Physics Data Facility (Code 632) . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Overview . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . 9 Charter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Major
   Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Selected Recent 12 Achievements . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   National Space Science Data Center and World Data Center-A (Code 633) .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 15 Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . 15 Charter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Major 16 Activities . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . Selected Recent 17 Achievements . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SSDOO Personnel Kudos
   20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . Research and Development Activities 22 . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Publications 26 . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . Acronyms 37 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii SSDOO
   OVERVIEW Preface Goddard Space Flight Center's (GFSC) fundamental
   mission is to increase knowledge of the Earth, its environment, the
   solar system, and the universe through the development and use of
   spacecraft. GSFC has some of the world's leading groups of scientists,
   engineers, hardware and software developers, and administrative
   managers responsible for supporting NASA programs. GSFC is organized
   into eight directorates as shown in the accompanying diagram. The Space
   Science Data Operations Office (SSDOO) resides within the Space
   Sciences Directorate. Office of the Director (Code 100) Management
   Flight Flight Applied Space Systems Suborbital Earth Operations
   Assurance Projects Engineering Sciences Technology Projects Sciences
   (Code 200) (Code 300) (Code 400) and Technlogy (Code 600) and Advance
   (Code 800) (Code 900) (Code 500) Concepts (Code 700) SPACE SCIENCES
   DIRECTORATE Space Sciences Administration Data Operations and Resources
   Office Management Office (Code 630) (Code 603) Laboratory for
   Laboratory for Laboratory for High Energy Astronomy Extraterrestrial
   Astrophysics and Solar Physics Physics (Code 660) (Code 680) (Code 690)
   SSDOO OVERVIEW iii SPACE SCIENCES DATA OPERATIONS OFFICE Organization
   Chart Space Science Data Operations Office Dr. J. L. Green, Chief 630
   N. Laubenthal, Associate Chief National Astrophysics Space Physics
   Space Science Data Facility Data Facility Data Center and World Data
   Center-A Dr. R. Pisarski, Head 631 Dr. R. McGuire, Head 632 Dr. J. H.
   King, Head 633 iv SSDOO OVERVIEW SPACE SCIENCE DATA CODE 630 OPERATIONS
   OFFICE OVERVIEW GSFC has long been active in the planning, acquisition,
   processing, analyzing, archiving, and dissemination of data from space
   science missions. The National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC) has
   archived and distributed the data of many scientific disciplines and
   facilitated research (with archival data) for over 30 years. Currently,
   GSFC is responsible for over 30 missions. The future data products
   derived from NASA and NASA involved international space science
   missions are growing substantially in volume and information content.
   This growth in data volume and complexity introduces unprecedented
   demands and new challenges on space science data operations
   andinformation management systems to archive, analyze, and distribute
   data to a diverse community of space scientists, educators, students,
   and the public at large. In June 1992 GSFC established the Space
   Science Data Operations Office (SSDOO) in order to meet many of these
   new challenges. SSDOO has a large number of computer systems with
   public services that are all connected to open wide-area computer
   networks. These systems are heavily accessed by scientists as well as
   the general public. Because of this large investment in on-line data
   operations, systems, and services, the SSDOO is also responsible for
   the operation of the NASA Incident Response Center or NASIRC. This
   activity includes providing technical training in security awareness
   training, and developing and distributing computer security tool kits
   to NASA system managers and other computer users to adequately protect
   government computer resources. The services of the SSDOO and its
   branches can be accessed over the World Wide Web starting at the URL:
   http://ssdoo.gsfc.nasa.gov CHARTER The Space Science Data Operations
   Office manages and operates three major data intensive branches. SSDOO
   performs various space data operations activities ranging from managing
   selected operating spacecraft to the development and operations of data
   and information systems that support processing, management, archiving,
   and distribution of space physics, astrophysics, and planetary physics
   data and information. The data systems provide support for many of the
   laboratory research needs within the Space Sciences Directorate and the
   scientific needs of the SSDOO OVERVIEW 1 space science research
   community in general. SSDOO accomplishes its responsibilities through
   the archiving, cataloging, and dissemination of space science data and
   provides many specialized science support services and systems
   involving sensor algorithm development, processing, and mission
   administration and management. The division is heavily involved in the
   science data operations of several key spacecraft and interfaces with
   the Flight Projects Directorate (Code 400), the Applied Engineering and
   Technology Directorate (Code 500), the Space Sciences (Code 600)
   laboratories, and the space science community. SPECIAL FACILITIES Two
   of the stated goals of NASA's Office of Space Science with regard to
   education and public outreach are to "use our missions and research
   programs and talents of the space science community to contribute
   measurably to the general elevation of scientific and technical
   understanding throughout the country," and to "share the excitement of
   discoveries and knowledge generated by Space Science missions and
   research programs by communicating clearly with the public." Perhaps
   the best - if not only - way to convene the qualities and dynamics of
   these complex phenomena to the non-scientist is to translate our
   scientific observations of these features into pictures and animations.
   SSDOO has developed a Visualization Facility. The Facility creates
   illustrations, develops and produces 2D and 3D animations, and produces
   videos and quick time movies. This work is accomplished by working
   closely with members of the Space Science Directorate, key members of
   the space science community, NASA Headquarters, and GSFC Public Affairs
   Office. The finished products are available to the media, the education
   community and the general public. 2 SSDOO OVERVIEW ASTROPYSICS DATA
   CODE 631 FACILITY OVERVIEW Space-based astrophysics missions are
   returning data sets of increasingly large volume and information
   content, challenging existing computational and data management systems
   and demanding new modes of operation. Specific Astrophysics Data
   Facility (ADF) functions include mission data system planning, data
   acquisition, data processing, algorithm development, guest investigator
   support, development of data access and visualization tools, and
   studies of new data technology utilization. The ADF's primary customers
   are the providers and consumers of astrophysics data. These range from
   major NASA and international flight projects to individual researchers.
   The ADF recently completed highly successful support to the High Energy
   Astrophysics Archive Research Center (HEASARC, Code 662), guest
   investigators on the Roentgen satellite (ROSAT), Advanced Satellite for
   Cosmology and Astrophysics (ASCA), Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE)
   missions by processing and dissemination of mission data. Similar
   activities are in the development stages for the SWIFT mission. In
   collaboration with the Laboratory for Astronomy and Solar Physics (Code
   680), the ADF manages the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) Guest
   Investigator Program. In addition, the ADF supports the Submillimeter
   Wave Astronomy Satellite (SWAS) and COBE missions through processing
   and dissemination of mission data. The Astrophysics Data Facility:
   participates in data system planning and develops user support tools
   for the research community;  processes level 0 data from both NASA and
   international astrophysics missions, and creates level 1 data products;
    develops and integrates state-of-the-art data systems necessary to
   carry out its mission; and  functions as the scientific liaison between
   the NSSDC and astrophysics data providers identifying appropriate data
   from active and past missions. CHARTER Science data expertise provided
   by the ADF supports the processing, management, and dissemination of
   data obtained by past, current, and future NASA and international
   astrophysics missions. The ADF enables the effective use of those data
   (by providing IT tools and Computer Science methods to the astrophysics
   community, educators, and the public. SSDOO OVERVIEW 3 MAJOR ACTIVITIES
   Science Data Processing for SWIFT - The ADF is providing science data
   processing pipeline development services to the SWIFT mission. This
   will include development of the pipeline and the software to convert
   telemetry to science data formats using the Flexible Image Transport
   System (FITS). The ADF will be supplying software to allow the pipeline
   to run at the SWIFT partner locations in Italy and the United Kingdom.
   After launch, the ADF will have responsibility for processing both fast
   (Quick Look) science data for quick delivery to science users and
   archival science processing for long term storage. The ADF will supply
   scientist access via the web to the Quick Look science data products.
   Long term public data storage support will be in the HEASARC while
   science data products will be delivered to Italy and the United Kingdom
   for their use as well. New Technology Study for GLAST - The ADF is
   supporting the GLAST (Gamma Ray Large Area Space Telescope) mission by
   designing and prototyping a Beowulf-based archive system. Beowulf's are
   large clusters of commodity PC's running a common operating system
   (generally Linux). The design effort is to determine the value of
   commodity computer hardware and distributed processing for large
   astrophysics data sets. HEASARC Support - The HEASARC was established
   at GSFC in 1990 to support multi-mission X-ray and gamma-ray archival
   research. The HEASARC makes high-energy astrophysics data accessible to
   the research community and provides expert scientific support to guest
   investigators. It is a collaboration between the Laboratory for High
   Energy Astrophysics (LHEA), the ADF, and the NSSDC. The HEASARC
   Director is a member of the LHEA. The ADF, is responsible for data
   management and interactions with other data centers, data producers,
   and science user support for some HEASARC supported missions such as
   ROSAT, ASCA, X-ray Timing Explorer (XTE), and Astro-E. The ADF works
   collaboratively with the HEASARC staff to help produce scientific
   analysis tools and simulations that are used by both the processing
   software and observers. This effort has been highly successful on ASCA.
   COBE Guest Investigator Support - The ADF provides the international
   scientific community with on-line access to COBE data, and the public
   with access to images and information about the data and COBE's
   stunning scientific achievements. COBE-related educational resources
   including an online tutorial, a slide set, and a poster have been
   developed. Astronomical Data Center and FITS Support Office - The ADF
   provides scientific guidance to the Astronomical Data Center (ADC) and
   the FITS Support Office. The ADC, part of a federation of international
   data centers that includes the Centre de Donnés astronomiques de
   Strasbourg (CDS) in France, acquires, verifies, formats, documents, and
   provides on-line access to files containing astronomical data in
   computer-readable form, and develops and maintains software tools to
   access the data. The FITS Support Office is responsible for documenting
   the FITS standard and participating in its evolution, advising persons
   involved in NASA astrophysics missions on how their data can be
   presented in FITS format, and providing on-line documentation for and
   limited user support directly to the research community. Advanced Data
   Interface Development -The ADF staff in collaboration with the
   University of Maryland Institute of Advanced Computer Science is using
   Object-Oriented Data Base (OODB) methodology to build a new
   data-locating service, the Astrophysics Multispectral Archive Search
   Engine (AMASE). AMASE allows multispectral and multi-mission data in
   the NASA archives to be searched easily by scientific parameters. AMASE
   has a metadata base that links fundamental measurements published in
   astronomical catalogs with the relevant low-level mission data sets and
   the high-level mission data products in the archives. The scientific
   attributes searchable in the 4 SSDOO OVERVIEW AMASE prototype include
   astronomical names, positions, coordinates and classifications. Other
   parameters such as flux, color, proper motion and redshift will be
   searchable in later releases. A complimentary effort undertaken by the
   ADF, which utilizes relational database methodology is the Web
   Interface for Searching Archival Research Data (WISARD) on the NASA
   Data Archive and Distribution Service (NDADS). WISARD has been
   developed in order to improve the accessibility of data archived on
   NDADS and to facilitate multi-wavelength, multi-mission research using
   the NDADS archives and related public archives. WISARD supports queries
   on fields which are incommon between the various NDADS astrophysical
   catalogs (i.e. target coordinates and date of observation); choice of
   search epoch; access to the Set of Identifications, Measurements, and
   Bibliography for Astronomical Data (SIMBAD) name/coordinate resolver;
   catalog-specific field searches (e.g. instrument, object class, etc.);
   search criteria refinements; union and intersection queries on multiple
   catalogs; default and user-specified display of the query results; and
   subsequent NDADS and the Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer (EUVE) public
   archive data requests. The Viewer/CATS EYE/Impress (VCI) interface is
   being developed also. It allows users to display, explore, cull, sort,
   manipulate and reformat data and metadata in catalogs and journal
   tables to meet the userís specific needs. Catalog information is
   available from the ADC, but the VCI allows data sets to be downloaded
   from other data centers in a convenient user friendly manner.
   State-of-the-art information technology is being developed to enable
   users to obtain a better science yield from ADC's and other data
   center's holdings. The ADF is pioneering work on a new format XML which
   is starting to be utilized throughout the Space Science community. This
   format will allow the dynamic manipulation of journal tables and other
   data sets. Another area the ADF is pursuing concerns agent technology.
   These agents will enable the data centers to have more efficient data
   management and distributed computing. SELECTED RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS
   Mission Data Management Planning - The ADF advises Code 600 and
   external astrophysics projects on the formulation of their Project Data
   Management Plans (PDMP). These important documents describe the
   spacecraft-to-investigator flow of scientific data, and address related
   management and implementation issues. For example, the ADF collaborated
   with the Harvard- Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics to develop the
   SWAS PDMP and provided advice on ground data handling to the Microwave
   Anisotropy Probe (MAP) team. MAP is scheduled to be launched in 2001.
   SWAS data are available through web-based archive interface developed
   by the ADF. Future Mission Planning - The ADF collaborates with the
   Code 600 Laboratories to develop plans for future space science
   missions. For example, we are participating in mission concept studies
   for the Submillimeter Probe of the Evolution of Cosmic Structure
   (SPECS), and organized an international workshop on "Submillimeter
   Space Astronomy in the Next Millennium." ROSAT Processing - ROSAT has
   been processing its final data sets to the final archival form (ROSAT
   Revision Level 2). In any flight mission, a small percentage of data
   sets have problems that reduce (usually only slightly) their full
   observing period. Even with a small percentage, the ROSAT mission has
   been so long and so productive that this represents a significant
   amount of data. In many cases, changes have to be made to programs to
   accommodate these minor data variations and this has required time.
   ROSAT has spent the last two years cleaning up these final problems to
   assure the highest quality final archive for use by the scientific
   community. As part of this effort, it became necessary to upgrade and
   test ROSAT software to assure correct functionality across the SSDOO
   OVERVIEW 5 1999-2000 date change boundary. This effort also consumed
   time and effort. ROSAT has now completed its processing and the US
   ROSAT Science Data Processing Center is shutting down. ASCA Processing
   - ASCA has been processing mission flight during the reporting period.
   This proceeded quietly and without significant problems. During this
   period, the ASCA pipeline software was upgraded to support the
   1999-2000 date change event. This required minor program and processing
   script changes and a significant testing effort. A parallel "time
   machine" ASCA processing pipeline was created to assure correct
   operation of the software. In July, 2000, the ASCA spacecraft was
   unexpectedly damaged by a large solar flare. Attempts by the Japanese
   to recover it failed. As a result, ASCA operations have been
   terminated. All ASCA data have been processed and a very small
   operation remains to assure ASCA proprietary data is released over the
   following year on time. The ASCA team was also responsible for
   upgrading the ASCA science data processing pipeline to support the
   ASTRO-E mission during the reporting period. ASTRO-E would have been
   the follow-on mission to ASCA. This was accomplished by converting the
   ASCA Unix shell scripts to the (more portable) Perl language. The ASCA
   team was fully prepared for ASTRO-E operation when a launch vehicle
   failure caused the destruction of the ASTRO-E spacecraft in early 2000.
   The ASTRO-E processing operations were then cancelled. XTE Processing
   and Distribution - The ADF processed and distributed AO1, AO2, AO3, and
   AO4 Rossi XTE (RXTE) data until October 1, 2000. Data processing and
   distribution operations were transferred to the RXTE Science Operations
   Facility on October 1, 2000 due to the need to consolidate operations
   as a result of budgetary constraints. The ADF successfully supported
   the RXTE mission for over 4.5 years with data processing and
   distribution services, including a complete reprocessing and
   re-distribution of the first-year mission data without impact to
   ongoing operations. Thin-Foil X-ray Ray Tracing - The ADF created an
   X-ray ray tracing simulator for use by the ASCA and ASTRO E missions.
   This package traces X-ray photons through both the ASCA and ASTRO E
   telescopes and predicts the performance of the optics. This software
   has been integrated with the ASTRO E XRS simulator to allow the ASTRO E
   science community to plan optimal science use of this instrument.
   Advanced Data Interfaces - Both AMASE and WISARD have achieved
   usefulness for the user community. This was in evidence by the interest
   generated by the ADF exhibit of both interfaces at the recent American
   Astronomical Association meeting in San Antonio. The AMASE prototype
   can be accessed on the Web at the URL: http://amase.gsfc.nasa.gov/ and
   WISARD is accessible via the Web at:
   http://hypatia.gsfc.nasa.gov/wisard/wisard.html The ADF has produced
   browser files for most of the NASA UV astronomical data holdings,
   including the IUE archive. These browsers enable researchers to preview
   data products and determine their applicability. In the spirit of
   interoperability, the browser pages are accessible from both the ADF
   WISARD interface and the Space Telescope MAST facility
   (http://archive.stsci.edu/mast.html). More recently, the ADF staff has
   begun to create tools which will facilitate data mining of the
   International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) archive. Specifically, the
   temporal behavior of objects observed 10 or more times over the 17 year
   lifetime of IUE can be investigated. As a first step in the mining
   process, a browser which displays dynamic spectra of each set of
   repeated observations was constructed. This facility enables a
   researcher to decide whether further analysis is warranted. It also
   provides a set of data which will guide the ADF staff in the
   development of automated tools which will be capable of attacking even
   larger data sets. 6 SSDOO OVERVIEW The ASCA mission is supported by the
   ADF in a similar fashion. The ADF processes all ASCA mission data into
   data products that are distributed to U.S. and European observers as
   well as to the HEASARC. Additional services include maintaining
   processing scripts, providing data management automation software, and
   providing World Wide Web (WWW) access to processing results information
   and documentation. The ADF supports the XTE mission by providing
   processing, distribution and archiving using systems that were
   developed jointly for both ROSAT and ASCA. Level 0 data are processed
   and data products are generated that are provided to users. An
   additional requirement is for the ADF to provide the data to the
   instrument teams which are located at GSFC, University of California
   San Diego (UCSD) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) so any
   anomalies can be identified and corrected. WWW access is also provided
   to help users determine the processing status of their data.Future
   Mission Planning - The ADF collaborates with the Code 600 Laboratories
   to develop plans for future space science missions. For example, we are
   participating in mission concept studies for the Submillimeter Probe of
   the Evaluation of Cosmic Structures (SPECS), and recently ran a
   successful workshop on "Submillimeter Space Astronomy in the Next
   Millennium." ASCA Processing - The ADF has completed reprocessing all
   current ASCA flight data to the Revision 2 standard. This provides both
   archival scientists and proprietary Guest Observers with the highest
   quality data currently available. A copy of the ADF processed archive
   is being provided to the ASCA mission partner, the Institute for Space
   and Astronomical Studies (ISAS) in Japan. This will facilitate research
   by providing a common set of data to both sides of the Pacific. As is
   standard policy, all data is being supplied to the HEASARC as it is
   being processed. XTE Processing and Distribution - The ADF has
   processed and distributed 95% of the AO1, AO2 and AO3 XTE data to date
   (350 Guest Observers). These observations began January 31,1996. Many
   uncertainties in the processing and data distribution system had to be
   worked out. The ADF has completed reprocessing all current RXTE flight
   data to the Revision 1 standard. The ADF XTE team also provided all the
   data to the instrument teams using the internet and tape distribution.
   This insured that the hardware teams could verify the correct operation
   of the suite of observing instruments onboard XTE. Thin-Foil X-ray Ray
   Tracing - The ADF created an X-ray ray tracing simulator for use by the
   ASCA and ASTRO E missions. This package traces X-ray photons through
   both the ASCA and ASTRO E telescopes and predicts the performance of
   the optics. This software has been integrated with the ASTRO E XRS
   simulator to allow the ASTRO E science community to plan optimal
   science use of this instrument. Advanced Data Interfaces - Both AMASE
   and WISARD have achieved usefulness for the user community. This was in
   evidence by the interest generated by the ADF exhibit of both
   interfaces at the recent American Astronomical Association meeting in
   San Antonio. The AMASE prototype can be accessed on the Web at the URL:
   http://amase.gsfc.nasa.gov/and WISARD is accessible via the Web at:
   http://hypatia.gsfc.nasa.gov/wisard/wisard.html The ADF has produced
   browser files for most of the NASA UV astronomical data holdings,
   including the IUE archive. These browsers enable researchers to preview
   data products and determine their applicability. In the spirit of
   interoperability, the browser pages are accessible from both the ADF
   WISARD interface and the Space Telescope MAST facility
   (http://archive.stsci.edu/mast.html). More recently, the ADF staff has
   begun to create tools which will facilitate data mining of the IUE
   archive. Specifically, the temporal behavior of objects observed 10 or
   more times over the 17 year lifetime of IUE can be investigated. As a
   first step in SSDOO OVERVIEW 7 the mining process, a browser which
   displays dynamic spectra of each set of repeated observations was
   constructed. This facility enables a researcher to decide whether
   further analysis is warranted. It also provides a set of data which
   will guide the ADF staff in the development of automated tools which
   will be capable of attacking even larger data sets. 8 SSDOO OVERVIEW
   SPACE PHYSICS DATA CODE 632 FACILITY OVERVIEW The Space Physics Data
   Facility (SPDF) develops and operates a range of programs serving data
   needs of the NASA and international space physics science communities.
   Central efforts of SPDF are the WWW-based Coordinated Data Analysis
   Workshop Web (CDAWeb) and the Satellite Situation Center Web (SSCWeb)
   software development and science-enabling services. These services and
   other efforts of the SPDF support NASA's Sun-Earth-Connections (SEC)
   program, the International Solar-Terrestrial Physics (ISTP) program
   including international elements and the InterAgency Consultative Group
   (IACG) solar-terrestrial research initiative. Several members of SPDF
   play key roles in the science and ground systems of the upcoming IMAGE
   mission, as well as science investigator roles in ISTP, IMP-8 and the
   upcoming Cluster mission. SPDF and its systems have played key roles in
   the Space Physics Data System (SPDS) in collaboration with other
   elements of the SSDOO and the Space Science Directorate laboratories,
   and are a logical supporting element to the new Space Science Data
   Service (SSDS). CHARTER SPDF works closely with Code 600 laboratory and
   flight personnel in space physics data operations activities. SPDF
   develops and implements capabilities to serve space physics scientists'
   needs by supporting the creation and distribution of multi-source,
   multi-parameter, and multi- project data sets and data bases,
   "value-added" interdisciplinary data bases, and other products (e.g.,
   CD-ROMs); develops such systems for specific NASA flight projects; and
   leads the development of nationally accessible advanced data base
   systems in the areas of solar-terrestrial physics. This includes the
   development, implementation, and operation of a WWW-based system for
   viewing and downloading multi-instrument space physics data (CDAWeb).
   SPDF works closely with flight project personnel in data system
   planning, utilization, and operation. SPDF designs and implements the
   SSCWeb software system, that provides mission planning information for
   scientists involved in the ISTP program supporting NASA and other
   agency spacecraft science operations planning. SPDF personnel represent
   the National Space Science Data Center as appropriate in interfacing
   with data producers to identify and coordinate the acquisition of
   appropriate space physics data from active missions. SPDF identifies
   and oversees loading of appropriate data to the active
   on-line/near-line space physics data archive and development of
   appropriate user interface and other tools for that environment. SPDF
   develops and integrates state-of-the-art capabilities and systems
   necessary to carry out its mission. MAJOR ACTIVITIES SPDF continues its
   role of enabling coordinated science in the tradition established by
   the Coordinated Data Analysis Workshop (CDAW) program. Taking advantage
   of the new WWW SSDOO OVERVIEW 9 technology, CDAWeb now allows users to
   display or download simultaneous data from many investigators in order
   to attack significant physical problems of global scale that may not be
   otherwise addressable. The concept originated in the solar-terrestrial
   community within the International Magnetospheric Study (IMS) program
   to analyze simultaneous data from a variety of sources to understand
   better the structure and dynamics of the Earth's magnetosphere. The
   Inter-Agency Consultative Group (IACG) is presently sponsoring a series
   of science campaigns, all supported in one degree or another by the
   databases of CDAWeb. CDAWeb is hosting an increasing set of
   higher-resolution spacecraft products and products from an expanding
   range of missions beyond ISTP (e.g. FAST and ACE) including key
   non-NASA data for European Space Agency's (ESA) Ulysses missions and
   the Russian Interball Tail and Aurora spacecraft. MONTHLY CDAWEB USAGE
   STATISTICS 17,000 16,000 15,000 Lists & ASCII Files 14,000 Plots 13,000
   Web Hits (*0.1) 12,000 11,000 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 Monthly Usage
   6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan
   Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul
   Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan
   Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
   The Satellite Situation Center (SSC) consists of a software system,
   operational and development facilities, and an operational staff to
   support a range of science planning and science analysis needs where
   spacecraft orbital information must be brought into play with magnetic
   field models and magnetospheric region definitions. The operational SSC
   and the SPACEWARN (SW) offices support the Inter-Agency Consultative
   Group (IACG) program and populate on-line files of orbital elements and
   help carry out commitments to the Committee on Space
   Research/International Ursigram and World Days Service (COSPAR/IUWDS),
   and the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS). The
   operational SSC works closely with the ISTP Science Planning and
   Operations Facility (SPOF) to meet ISTP and IACG needs. SSCWeb supports
   both listing and graphics with the ability to perform sophisticated
   queries to identify times of specific spacecraft locations and various
   spacecraft-spacecraft and spacecraft-ground conjunctions. The system is
   designed to support 10 SSDOO OVERVIEW easily consistent updating of
   distributed, customized copies of the underlying data base from files
   generated at other facilities, for example the SSC's receiving orbit
   elements and then providing updates on IACG missions to the SPOF or the
   SPOF updating the SSC with respect to core ISTP missions. The full
   capability of an enhanced SSC software system and data bases are now
   publicly MONTHLY SSCWEB USAGE STATISTICS 3,,000 Conjunction Queries
   2,500 S/C Position (Plot) S/C Position (List) Web Hits (*0.1) 2,000
   1,500 Monthly Usage 1,000 500 0 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
   Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
   Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
   Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 accessible as SSCWeb
   as a joint SPDF/NSSDC effort.SPDF, in collaboration with NSSDC is
   making critical data-management related contributions to the Global
   Geospace Science (GGS), ISTP, and IACG programs. SPDF is defining the
   correct and most cost-effective use of key data standards, developing
   software against these standards to support specific program objectives
   and supporting a master near-line data archive. One key activity is the
   support of ISP/GGS-IACG use of the NSSDC-developed and maintained
   Common Data Format (CDF) as a standard for Key Parameters (KPs). KPs
   are a time-continuous data product characterizing the physical
   measurements of each instrument from every investigation and are the
   key ISTP mechanisms supporting a "global" view of the data collected.
   SPDF has developed a further set of detailed "CDF Implementation
   Guidelines" as a foundation to enable ISTP to realize its desired
   global and holistic view of its data. These standards now form a
   baseline for international space physics exchange and have been
   endorsed by both the Cluster project and the IACG. SPDF has developed a
   new, Java-based tool to greatly ease the learning and implementation
   effort for data providers to cast data into ISTP-guidelines compliant
   CDFs. SPDF partners with NSSDC staff to provide technical oversight and
   other guidance to specific activities on behalf of NSSDC. These
   activities include the identification and acquisition of key space
   physics data; the creation of value-added data sets, such as the OMNI
   and Coordinated Heliospheric Observations (COHO) data bases;
   acquisition and dissemination of space physics models; and the
   furthered accessibility of key archival space physics data sets, for
   example, in loading them into NDADS and in developing simple and
   portable basic display software. SSDOO OVERVIEW 11 Actively involved in
   enabling coordinated science (IACG and ISTP) and data management, the
   Space Physics Data Facility is leading the definition of a new program
   in data-intensive radiation belt modeling. As follow-on to the
   traditional NSSDC Trapped Radiation Environment Modeling Program
   (TREMP) that produced the existing NASA trapped radiation models, the
   SPDF is leading an effort to construct a new generation of trapped
   radiation models using modern data management technology (e.g.,
   object-oriented database, data format standards, and modern
   communications tools). The model architecture is designed such that the
   models will have better performance and accuracy by being updateable,
   extensible as well as parameterize-able. Combining both empirical and
   theoretical modeling techniques, the new models will be semi-empirical
   such that they will be important tools suitable for both scientific and
   space weather applications. SPDF staff actively define and lead a range
   of science instrument work (e.g. on IMP-8 IMAGE, and Cluster) as well
   as various funded Guest Investigator research efforts in e.g. trapped
   radiation modeling, solar/galactic cosmic ray studies and studies of
   the earth's bow shock using ISTP and other data. As one example, the
   bow shock study investigates the dynamic nature of Earth's bow shock to
   gain a new understanding the bow shock's position, shape, and motion,
   and the relationship between changes in the solar wind and the response
   of the bow shock. Studies are performed using the vast data resources
   of ISTP concentrating on three satellites: Geotail, IMP 8 and WIND.
   Using primarily Geotail at the Earth's bow shock with Wind and IMP 8
   upstream as monitors, we investigate the source of the multiple bow
   shock crossings and whether or not the shock is ever still. We look at
   how the interaction changes based on solar wind nominal conditions such
   as Mach number, IMF direction and ram pressure. There are also
   configurations for which two are more spacecraft are nearly
   simultaneously crossing the bow shock. For these "events" we look for
   similar features at both crossings to attempt to answer the questions
   "does the bow shock move as a rigid body and under what conditions?";
   and "does the rigid shape match the one predicted by local normals
   calculated in models. SELECTED RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS * The combined
   efforts of SPDF with its partners in the NSSDC and the ISTP SPOF were
   recog- nized by Goddard in granting a "National Resource" group
   achievement award to the "Sun-Earth Connections Coordinated Data
   Analysis Tools & Services Group" "For new capabilities and ongo- ing
   services enabling the best science community use of Sun-Earth
   Connections data to achieve critical NASA science program objectives."
   An earlier stage of much of this work was recognized by NASA by an
   Agency-level group achievement award in 1997. * Use of the CDAWeb
   system continues steady growth since its operational start-up in 1996.
   From the graph of current usage shown, average use is now ~10,000 plots
   and listings per month with peaks ~15,000/month. * The CDAWeb database
   now exceeds 200 GBytes and 300,000 files in size and includes some
   1100+ science parameters. As seen in the second chart, as of November
   2000, the database now includes ~3.5 years (1260 days) when there are
   >100 datasets with data in each of those days. A typical distribution
   of users is shown in the last chart and emphasizes the international
   user base for this service. CDAWeb is now supported by a dual-CPU
   workstation and has recently been upgraded to just slightly less than 1
   TByte of total disk capacity. * CDAWeb "mirror" sites have now been
   established at the Max Planck Institute in Garching, Germany, at the
   Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK and at ISAS in Japan. 12 SSDOO
   OVERVIEW Days with > 120 Datasets Days with 101 - 120 Datasets Days
   with 81 - 100 Datasets THE CDAWEB DATABASE Days with 61 - 80 Datasets
   Days with 41 - 60 Datasets (July 1992 to the Present) Days with 21 - 40
   Datasets Growing Total Days of Data, Growing Datasets Per Day Days with
   1 - 20 Datasets 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 Number of Days 1,000 500
   0 Date of Database 3/98 12/98 1/99 7/99 11/99 5/00 11/00 Avg.
   Datasets/Day (46) (54) (60) (71) (77) (87) (90) * Use of SSCWeb also
   continues steady growth, with usage now averaging ~1800 plots, listings
   and queries per month and peaks to >2600/month. The SSCWeb database now
   includes some 30 current missions, plus orbits from another 30
   historical spacecraft and their objects. * Data from all experiments on
   IMAGE is now being brought online into CDAWeb. Both Summary and Prime
   Parameters (investigators only at this time) from Cluster will be
   supported by CDAWeb when the Cluster spacecraft are made fully
   operational in January 2001. Special SSCWeb efforts have also been made
   to incorporate into SSCWeb project-generated orbits (definitive and
   predictive) for both missions. * A Java-based application (SKTEditor)
   has been developed to support the ready definition of fully
   ISTP-guidelines-compliant CDFs appropriate as a basis for generation
   and ingest of new data products into CDAWeb. This tool acts as an
   intelligent interface to guide users in the structuring process. The
   makeCDF application is a complementary tool supporting the ready
   conversion of user data into CDF once the CDF structure is defined. *
   The Imager for Magnetopause to Aurora Global Exploration (IMAGE) ground
   successfully supported IMAGE launch operations, early orbit and
   configurations and is now supporting IMAGE science operations. The
   system was designed and is being led by a key staff member in SPDF; the
   system was defined to a very constrained development budget but was
   nonentheless delivered on time and within budget. * The bow shock study
   effort created a database of the Earth's bow shock crossings and
   provided web access to it in order to facilitate statistical studies
   and cross-comparisons. This SSDOO OVERVIEW 13 database stores a list of
   bow shock crossings as well as information associated with each
   crossing - solar wind parameters such as Magnetosonic Mach number,
   plasma beta, IMF Bx, By, Bz, bow shock angles and ram pressure. The
   database design allows several kinds of plots to be created for
   specific subsets of the database, the conditions specifying the subset
   supplied through the WWW- based interface. Plots such as bow shock
   crossing locations and surface normal directions are currently
   supported. The database presently holds 950 crossings of the Earth's
   bow shock flanks observed by the Geotail spacecraft. In addition J.
   Safrankova and Z. Nemecek supplied two years worth of Magion-4
   (Interball-Tail's sub satellite) bow shock crossings approximately 1100
   crossings). We plan to add IMP-8 and Wind bow shock crossings in the
   future. The programs of SPDF are beginning to form a consistent
   framework and a solid foundation to address major challenges posed in
   data management and data handling by key Sun-Earth- Connections
   programs. The efforts will continue into the new millennium with the
   IMAGE and Cluster II missions. SCOPE OF THE CDAWEB USER COMMUNITY Other
   US Domains Canada 4% 4% .gov - 7% .net - 5% Russia 13% US .edu - 18%
   Japan 41% 14% Europe .com - 12% 18% Other - 1% January - March 2000
   Usage (% of Requests) 14 SSDOO OVERVIEW NATIONAL SPACE SCIENCE CODE 633
   DATA CENTER & WDC-A OVERVIEW The National Space Science Data Center
   (NSSDC) is a multidiscipline archive, supporting astrophysics, solar
   and space plasma physics, and lunar and planetary sciences. NSSDC
   acquires data from spaceflight projects, discipline data systems, and
   individual principal investigators. NSSDC permanently archives digital
   data in nearline and offline modes and archives other legacy data
   mainly on film. NSSDC disseminates data, primarily electronically, to
   the international space science community and both electronically and
   via offline mailings of CD-ROMs and film products to the general
   public. The center maintains comprehensive information files about
   NSSDC-held and other data. Finally, NSSDC manages the NASA/Science
   Office of Standards and Technology (NOST). NSSDC is the permanent
   archive for most NASA space science mission data and is the active
   archive for much data in selected discipline areas. As an element of
   the SSDOO, NSSDC collaborates with other facilities of SSDOO, with the
   other laboratories of the Space Sciences Directorate, and with the
   public for accessing NASA archival mission data. NSSDC's top web page
   is located at http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/ Many details about NSSDC's
   holdings and services as of the end of 1999, and data inflows and
   outflows during 1999, are at the following URL. The 2000 NSSDC Annual
   Report is now in preparation and will shortly be at an equivalent URL.
   http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/nssdc/annual/1999/ CHARTER The National
   Space Science Data Center serves as the permanent long-term archive and
   distribution center for a broad range of space science satellite data
   and information. It is responsible for the maintenance and operation of
   discipline-independent directories, SSDOO OVERVIEW 15 data standards,
   and other information services; access to existing and future NASA
   space science archives; support as requested of data center node(s) for
   science discipline data systems; and participation in the development
   of a nationally accessible science data system. The NSSDC maintains the
   necessary in-house expertise to support NASA data management, including
   related advanced information and storage technologies for distributed
   and intelligent data systems. The NSSDC develops and integrates
   state-of-the-art capabilities and systems necessary to carry out its
   mission and is responsible for maintaining useful products and
   publications. NSSDC is responsible for the operation of the World Data
   Center for Satellite information, which serves as NASA's agent for the
   international exchange of space science information and data. MAJOR
   ACTIVITIES NSSDC is responsible for the archiving and dissemination of
   scientific data from specific astrophysics and space physics missions
   and other discipline missions as appropriate. NSSDC manages the
   long-term space science and planetary archive and provides both
   electronic and off-line data distribution services. It maintains the
   long-term archive of both computer-readable and non-computer readable
   data (i.e., film) and preserves valuable information content against
   physical deterioration of the storage media. The NSSDC interfaces with
   astrophysics, planetary, and space physics discipline data systems and
   with SSDOO's Space Physics and Astrophysics Data Facilities to ensure
   timely access to archived data and information. It may provide limited
   special services and value-added products or generate multidisciplinary
   data bases for the astrophysics, planetary, and space physics science
   communities. It produces regular publications promoting and informing
   the science user community of its archive contents and services. As
   assigned by NASA Headquarters, it assures the continuing accessibility
   of distributed NASA archived data files when the entities managing
   those files cease that activity. NSSDC maintains expertise in
   information systems technologies and applies this knowledge to
   discipline-independent data systems and related services. It promotes
   data system interoperability. NSSDC maintains a number of popular
   information systems. The NSSDC Master Catalog provides a wealth of
   information on past, present, and future spacecraft, including
   information on individual experiments and sensors for space science
   missions and data sets associated with them. Hyperlinks to further
   information or to data are provided if available. There is also
   information on NSSDC's customer community, web access to the most
   popular images NSSDC distributes, and catalog and online ordering
   capability for several hundred CD-ROMs. In addition, NSSDC, through its
   NASA/Science Office of Standards and Technologies (NOST), leads the
   NASA activity in international standardization efforts for
   compatibility of distributed on-line scientific data and information
   files. It also defines, develops, and manages a set of generic services
   covering a wide range of space and Earth science disciplines. It
   develops and integrates state-of-the-art capabilities and systems
   necessary to carry out its mission. 16 SSDOO OVERVIEW NOST serves the
   NASA science communities in evolving cost-effective, interoperable data
   systems by performing a number of functions designed to facilitate the
   recognition, development, adoption, and use of standards by these
   communities. The development of new standards is supported through
   participation in the international Consultative Committee for Space
   Data Systems (CCSDS) Panel 2, the International Astronomical Union's
   Flexible Image Transport System (FITS) committees, and the NOST's FITS
   Technical Panel. Standards support is provided through support offices
   for the CCSDS Standard Formatted Data Unit (SFDU) standards and the
   International Astronomical Union (IAU) FITS standard and through the
   convening of the Formats Evolution Process to help the community better
   understand their standards and evolve more interoperable systems. At
   this writing, NSSDC is migrating about 1 TB of space physics and
   astrophysics data from its legacy NDADS system (network-attached
   VMS-based optical disk jukeboxes) to magnetic disk for convenience of
   user access. SELECTED RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS The most important result of
   NSSDC's 2000 activities is the continuing preservation of growing space
   science data volumes, ensuring their continuing and future
   accessibility to the space science, education and general public
   communities. At this writing, NSSDC's 2000 full annual statistics are
   still being compiled, but it can be noted that during 2000 NSSDC
   ingested about 1.7 TB of data, bringing its total to just over 20 TB of
   data from 1400 experiments flown on 420 spacecraft. NSSDC continues to
   distribute large amounts of data by network to the space science
   community and general public, and by offline mailings to the general
   public. During 2000, NSSDC's customers downloaded about 2.3 million
   data files (15% increase over 1999) and had 1170 requests satisfied by
   NSSDC's mailing CD's or photoproducts via the U.S. mail. NSSDC's data
   dissemination is leading to the publication of significant new science.
   The Appendix of the 1999 Annual Report listed 47 science papers
   acknowledging NSSDC data or services as contributing to their analyses.
   These are papers which have come to the attention of our staff. Most
   science journals in which NSSDC data or services may have been used are
   not reviewed by our staff routinely, so the list represents a lower
   limit on papers enabled or benefitted by NSSDC. The equivalent list of
   year-2000 papers will appear in the 2000 Annual Report. The year 2000
   marked the start of multiple data management advances at NSSDC. Archive
   Information Packages (bundles of data files and companion attribute
   files as prescribed by the ISO/CCSDS Archive Reference model) were
   defined, created and written to DLT jukebox thereby initiating a
   gradual transition of NSSDC's permanent digital archive from offline
   shelves to nearline jukeboxes. At the same time the AIPs' constituent
   data and attribute files are being written to a new unix- based RAID
   magnetic disk environment (cf.ftp://nssdcftp.gsfc.nasa.gov/). Data
   previously ftp- accessible from other NSSDC systems are also being
   written to the same location. The first data being packaged as AIPs are
   the space physics data and IRAS data on NSSDC's VMS-based optical SSDOO
   OVERVIEW 17 on these data management changes are given in the
   web-accessible NSSDC Newsletter (December, 2000). NSSDC developed a new
   family of graphical-display-and-subset interfaces for selected ftp-
   accessible ASCII and gzipped-ASCII data sets that are awaiting possible
   conversion to Common Data Format for support by CDAWeb. This family,
   called Ftphelper, aids in the data preview and selection process. See
   http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftphelper/. NATIONAL SPACE SCIENCE DATA
   CENTER (NSSDC) WORLD WIDE WEB (WWW) USER ACCESS STATISTICS 2000
   14,000,000 13,327,233 13,147,159 13,113,014 13,000,000 12,915,935
   12,524,490 12,671,524 MONTHLY 12,000,000 11,479,020 MEANS 11,000,000
   10,547,104 10,110,718 10,000,000 9,513,441 9,000,000 9,000,229
   9,186,651 8,786,416 8,063,829 8,000,000 7,562,988 7,000,000 6,000,000
   5,799,041 5,000,000 NUMBER OF ACCESSES 4,000,000 3,000,000 2,000,000
   1,000,000 0 1996 1997 1998 1999 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT
   NOV DEC 2000 Through its NASA/Science Office of Standards and
   Technology (NOST), NSSDC provides international leadership in providing
   increasingly effective digital data archiving. During 2000, the
   NOST-led Formats Evolution Process Committee prepared and released for
   community review a paper proposing a possible time series object that
   could lead to improvements in the science community's ability to
   understand and process time series data. Also, there was growing world-
   wide acceptance of the NOST-led, ISO/CCSDS-sponsored Archive Reference
   model and use of this model in refashioning NSSDC's own data management
   approach as mentioned above. There was high-level interest in 2000 in
   the recovery and digitization of data from the Labelled Release biology
   experiment flown to Mars on the two Viking Lander spacecraft. NSSDC
   played a key role, along with the Planetary Data System's Geosciences
   node and with two members of the original science team, in effecting
   this. Much keypunching was done from NSSDC- 18 SSDOO OVERVIEW
   microfilmed numeric listings and from newly-provided numeric listings
   on paper. This newly digitally available data set is supporting new
   "Life on Mars?" analyses. Two other notable data rescue efforts
   occurred in 2000. First, a unique IMP 8 magnetotail electron data set
   available only as numeric listings (and plots) on microfilm was scanned
   and passed through Optical Character Recognition. The resulting ASCII
   files were manually cleaned and made ftp-accessible. Also, NSSDC began
   a systematic conversion of its film archive to computer-accessible TIFF
   format with the scanning of Magellan 10"x10" film (Venus imagery) and
   Mariner-series 70-mm film (Venus and Mars imagery). NSSDC provided a
   leadership to the NASA Sun Earth Connection (SEC) Education Forum
   (SECEF), sponsored by the NASA SEC enterprise of the Office of Space
   Science. In particular, SECEF played key roles in year-2000 creations
   of (1) a new web-accessible space science education resource directory
   and (2) a new "Making Sun-Earth Connections" CD-ROM with various
   sections oriented to various subsets of the K-12 population. SSDOO
   OVERVIEW 19 PERSONNEL KUDOS SSDOO SSDOO Over the last year the Space
   Science Data Operations Office employees below have been recognized for
   the following awards and honors: GSFC Annual Awards Solar Eruptive
   Events CDAW Organization Team James Green, Code 630 Robert McGuire,
   Code 632 Shing Fung, Code 632 Margie Pasini, Code 630 Bobby Candey,
   Code 632 Greg Goucher, Code 633 Jennifer Ash-Poole, Code 630, Raytheon
   ITSS Sean McKeown, Code 630, Raytheon ITSS Russ Dunlap, Code 630,
   Raytheon ITSS Emre Kaymez, Code 630, KT-Tech Jim Palmer, Code 630,
   Raytheon ITSS Tami Kovalick, Code 630, Raytheon ITSS National Resource
   Award Dr. Ramona Kessel Excellence in Outreach Award Jim Thieman GSFC
   Quarterly Awards Outstanding Manager Award James L. Green Outstanding
   Teamwork Award Information Technology Self Assessment Team Jim Green ,
   Code 630 Nancy Laubenthal, Code 630 0utstanding Civil Servant Award
   Rick Burley Education and Outreach Carol Krueger 20 SSDOO OVERVIEW
   National Awards The Communicator Crystal Awards "Blackout" Video -
   Education - Animation/Special Effects The Telly Award "Blackout" Video
   The U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation Award
   "In recognition for outstanding assistance to the FBI in connection
   with its investigative efforts" Ms. Laura Carriere, SSDOO Mr. Eric
   Scanland, NASIRC Mr. Tom Baxter, NASIRC Other Awards Raytheon Technical
   Excellence Award Ed Shaya Civil Servant 2000 Peer Awards George Fleming
   Nat James Lisa Kelly Corporate Good Citizen Award Lou Mayo/Raytheon
   ITSS Community Good Citizen Award Ralph Post/Raytheon ITSS Support
   Services Award Julie Smith/Raytheon ITSS Team Achievement - SSDOO
   Metrics Tracking System Database (MTSDB) Team Maia Good David Guell
   Teresa Hall-Jackson Pat McCaslin Edward Pier Ralph Post Patricia Ross
   Ed Wilson The Goddard Contractor Excellence Award Development Team
   Raytheon ITSS Raytheon ITSS Peer Awards Ken Anderson Jim Blackwell
   SSDOO OVERVIEW 21 MISSIONS, SCIENCE, AND IT RESEARCH & SSDOO SSDOO
   DEVELOPMENT SPACECRAFT MISSIONS IMAGE Mission James L. Green, CoI Shing
   Fung, CoI Bill Taylor, CoI Wind and Polar James L. Green, Deputy
   Project Scientist IMP8 Mission Joseph H. King, Project Scientist Robert
   McGuire, CoI Voyager Robert McGuire, CoI SPACECRAFT MISSION STUDIES
   Workshop on Submillimeter Space Astronomy in the Next Millennium David
   Leisawitz, CoI Submillimeter Probe of the Evolution of Cosmic Structure
   (SPECS) - Design Studies David Leisawitz, CoI INFORMATION SYSTEMS R&D
   Automated Processing of ISIS Topside Ionograms into Electron Density
   Profiles Dieter Bilitza, CoI Satellite Ion/Electron Density/Temperature
   Data on CD-ROM and WWW Dieter Bilitza, PI Natasha Papitashvili, CoI
   Constellation Client - Server Architecture Testbed Cynthia Cheung, CoI
   22 SSDOO OVERVIEW Development of a Space Science Data System Federation
   Interoperability Substrate using MOCHA Cynthia Cheung, PI Rapid
   Detection of Magnetospheric Boundaries James L. Green, PI Space
   Sciences Visualization Laboratory - Render Farm Mona Kessel, PI
   Analysis, simulation, assimilation, and prediction based on
   Multi-spacecraft data Mona Kessel, CoI Development of a 25 year IMP-8
   Bow Shock list and Provision for Web-based Access Joseph H. King, PI
   Interoperable Systems for Archival Information Access (ISAIA) Joseph H.
   King, CoI Cynthia Cheung, CoI Investigation of An Active Tethered
   Distributed Spacecraft Architecture David Leiswitz, CoI Wide Field
   Imaging Interferometry Testbed (WIIT) - Technical Equipment David
   Leisawitz, PI Remote Control of Vulnerability Scanning Devices Pilot
   Richard Schneider, PI Application of XML to Documentation and
   Content-Based Searching of Astonomical Catalogs Edward J.Shaya, PI Jim
   Gass, CoI Cynthia Cheung, CoI Autonomous Distributed Spacecraft
   Control, Science Collection and Advanced Simulation Technology Mike Van
   Steenberg, PI Improved IUE High Dispersion Extracting Software Mike Van
   Steenberg, PI SCIENCE International Solar Terrestrial Physics (ISTP)
   Guest Investigator Program Scott Boardsen, CoI AXAF Investigation of
   the Archtypical ULIRG: Arp 220 Kirk Borne, CoI SSDOO OVERVIEW 23 Do
   Massive Star Clusters Form in Young and Weak Galaxy Interactions? Kirk
   Borne, CoI The Redshift Dependence of the Interaction-Activity
   Connection among Ultraluminous Starbursting Galaxies Kirk Borne, PI
   Snapshot Survey of Dynamically Close Galaxy Pairs from z=0.1 to z=0.5
   Kirk Borne, CoI Space Weather: Improved Global Specification of the
   Topside Ionosphere Dieter Bilitza, PI Energetic Ion Interactions with
   the Galilean Satellites John Cooper, PI Ed Bell, CoI Investigation of
   Plasma Flow Characteristics in the High-Latitude Cusp Region Shing
   Fung, PI Lun Tan, CoI Interpretation of Cluster data in the vicinity of
   the Earth's Bow Shock Mona Kessel, PI Identification of M Supergiant +
   B star Binaries in the Magellanic Clouds Derck Massa, PI FUV
   Diagnostics of Structure in Hot Star Winds Derck Massa, CoI Cosmic
   Infrared Background Fluctuations from the WIRE Infrared Explorer Sten
   Odenwald, CoI Investigating Cosmic Background Fluctuations in the
   Infrared Using COBE/DIRBE Data Sten Odenwald, CoI FOS Spectroscopy of
   NGC 1316: Fornax A Edward J. Shaya, CoI Science team for the Space
   Interferometry Mission (SIM): Dynamical Observations of Galaxies Edward
   J. Shaya, PI Derivation of the Inverse Compton and Extragalactic
   Components of the Large-Scale Gamma-Ray Emission: Implications for the
   Possible Existence of a Galactic Gamma-Ray Halo." Tom Sodroski, PI Nils
   Odegard as Co-I Radio Plasma Imaging William Taylor, PI James L. Green,
   CoI Galaxy Winds vs. Cooling Flows in Poor Clusters Richard White, CoI
   EDUCATION AND OUTREACH Interaction of Magnetospheric Particles Applied
   to Classroom Teaching (IMPACT) John Cooper, PI Ed Bell, CoI Dave
   Williams, CoI GSFC Career Connection Model Nathan James, PI Lou Mayo,
   CoI AURORA: Using the Northern Lights to Enhance Rural Alaskan School
   Curricula Sten Odenwald, PI Interactive NASA Space Physics Ionospheric
   Radio Experiments INSPIRE William Taylor, PI James L. Green, CoI
   Sun-Earth Connection Education Form James Thieman, CoI Radio JOVE James
   Thieman, PI Chuck Higgins, CoI James L. Green, CoI Bill Taylor, CoI Jim
   Gass, CoI Lou Mayo, CoI Radio JOVE Online Observatory Jim Thieman, PI
   Chuck Higgins, CoI SSDOO OVERVIEW 25 PUBLICATIONS SSDOO SSDOO
   Scientific Articles (Journals, Proceedings, & Reports) Arribas, S., L.
   Colina, and K. D. Borne, "The Merging Process in the Ultraluminous
   Infrared Galaxy IRAS 08572+3915: Nuclear and Tidally Induced
   Extranuclear Star Formation," The Astrophysics Journal, 545, 228, 2000.
   Benson, R. F., J. Fainberg, V. A. Osherovich, J. L. Green, S. F. Fung,
   and B. W. Reinisch, "Magnetospheric Electron-Density Values Determined
   from Plasma Resonances Stimulated by the Radio Plasma Imager on the
   IMAGE Satellite," American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San
   Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000. Bhat, M. K., M. L. Rilee, S. A.
   Boardsen, and S. A. Curtis, "Prelude to High Performance Computing on
   Magnetospheric Multi Scale: The REE/STP Plasma Moment Application
   Applied to HAWEYE Data," American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San
   Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000. Bilitza, D, "Constructing the New
   Model for the Bottomside Parameters," in Proceedings of the IRI Task
   Force Activity, 1999, The Abdus Salam International Centre for
   Theoretical Physics, edited by S.M. Radicella, 1-26, Trieste, Italy,
   2000. Bilitza, D., and B. D. Beckley, "Improved IRI Ionospheric
   Corrections for Satellite Altimetry," American Geophysical Union Spring
   Meeting, Integrative Geoscience Solutions: A Start for the New
   Millennium, Washington, D.C., May 30-June 3, 2000. Bilitza, D.,
   "International Reference Ionosphere Task Force Activity 1999 - Report,"
   in Proceedings of the IRI Task Force Activity 1999, The Abdus Salam
   International Centre for Theoretical Physics, edited by S.M. Radicella,
   v-ix, Trieste, Italy, 2000. Bilitza, D., S. Radicella, B. Reinisch, J.
   Adeniyi, M. Mosert, S. Zhang, and O. Obrou, "New B0 and B1 Models for
   IRI," Advances in Space Research, 25, no. 1, 89-95, 2000. Bilitza, D.,
   "The Importance of EUV Indices for the International Reference
   Ionosphere," Physics & Chemistry of the Earth, 25, no. 5-6, 515-521,
   2000. 26 SSDOO OVERVIEW Bilitza, D., and R. Williamson, "Towards a
   Better Representation of the IRI Topside Based on ISIS and Alouette
   Data," Advances in Space Research, 25, no. 1, 149-152, 2000. Boardsen,
   S. A., T. E. Eastman, T. Sotirelis, and J. L. Green, "An Empirical
   Model of the High Latitude Magnetopause," Journal of Geophysical
   Research, 105, 23193-23220, 2000. Boardsen, S. A., M. L. Rilee, M. K.
   Bhat, and S.A. Curtis, "Simulated Onboard Plasma Analysis with Real
   Data: The REE/STP Plasma Moment Application," American Geophysical
   Union Spring Meeting, Integrative Geoscience Solutions: A Start for the
   New Millennium, Washington, D.C., May 30-June 3, 2000. Boardsen, S. A.,
   T. E. Eastman, M. Peredo, and D. G. Sibeck, "New Empirical
   Magnetosphere Model that Includes Cusp Indentation," American
   Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San Francisco, CA, December 15-19,
   2000. Bonnell, J., M. L. Rilee, S. A. Boardsen, M. K. Bhat, and S.
   Curtis, "On the Use of Specific Entropy for Onboard Plasma Regime
   Characterization," American Geophysical Union Spring Meeting,
   Integrative Geoscience Solutions: A Start for the New Millennium,
   Washington, DC, May 30-June 3, 2000. Borne, K. D., and C. Y. Cheung,
   "Using On-Line Databases to Estimate the Galaxy Interaction Rate: A
   Science Scenario for a National Virtual Observatory," Virtual
   Observatories Conference, Pasadena, CA, June 14-16, 2000. Borne, K. D.,
   J. H. Blackwell, C. Y. Cheung, and D. T. Leisawitz, "In Search of the
   IR Background Using Large Astronomical Databases," Bulletin of the
   American Astronomical Society, 196, no. 53.05, 2000. Borne, K. D., R.
   A. Lucas, L. Colina, and H. Bushouse, "The Ultra-Luminous IR Galaxy
   Interaction Rate," Division of Dynamical Astronomy, 32, no. 10.04,
   2000. Borne, K. D., and C. Y. Cheung, "The Galaxy Interaction and
   Merger Rates: A Science Scenario for a National Virtual Observatory, "
   Division of Dynamical Astronomy, 32, no. 11.01, 2000. Borne, K. D., H.
   Bushouse, R. A. Lucas, and L. Colina. "Evidence for Multiple Mergers
   among Ultraluminous Infrared Galaxies: Remnants of Compact Groups," The
   Astrophysics Journal, 529, no. 2, 2000. Borne, K. D., S. Arribas, H.
   Bushouse, L. Colina, and R. A. Lucas, "The Diverse Population of
   ULIRGs," in Proceedings of the Far-Infrared and Submillimeter Spectral
   Energy Distributions of Active and Starburst Galaxies Conference, in
   press, 2000. Borne, K. D., H. Bushouse, L. Colina, R. A. Lucas, and S.
   Arribas, "The Ultra-Luminous IR Galaxy Population," in Proceedings of
   the Gas and Galaxy Evolution Conference, in press, 2000. Borne, K. D,
   "Science User Scenarios for a VO Design Reference Mission: Science
   Requirements for Data Mining," in Proceedings of the Caltech Virtual
   Observatories of the Future Conference, in press, 2000. SSDOO OVERVIEW
   27 Borne, K.D. "Data Mining in Astronomical Databases," in Proceedings
   of the MPA/ESO/MPe Mining the Sky Conference, in press, 2000. Brown, B.
   A., and J. N. Bregman, "Emission Mechanisms in X-Ray Faint Elliptical
   Galaxies," American Astronomical Society Bulletin, 195, 70.03, January,
   2000. Brown, B. A., and J. N. Bregman, "The Effect of Environment on
   the X-Ray Emission from Early- Type Galaxies," The Astrophysical
   Journal, 539, 592-602, August 20, 2000. Burley, R. J, "The IMAGE
   Archive and the Science and Mission Operations Center," American
   Geophysical Union Meeting, San Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000.
   Carlowicz, M. J, "Solar Maximum in the News," American Geophysical
   Union Spring Meeting, Integrative Geoscience Solutions: A Start for the
   New Millennium, Washington, DC, May 30- June 3, 2000. Cheung, C. Y.,
   "Distributed Archives Availability," Virtual Observatories Conference,
   Pasadena, CA, June 15, 2000. Cheung, C. Y., and D. Leisawitz, "New
   Frontiers in NASA Data Management," Information Handling in Astronomy,
   Kluwer, edited by Andre Heck, in press, 2000. Cheung, C. Y., K. D.
   Borne, E. J. Shaya, and J. H. Blackwell, "Using On-Line Databases to
   Estimate the Galaxy Interaction Rate: Looking Forward to a National
   Virtual Observatory," Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
   195, no. 80.02, 2000. Colina, L., S. Arribas, K. D. Borne, and A.
   Monreal, "Detection and Mapping of Decoupled Stellar and Ionized Gas
   Structures in the Ultraluminous Infrared Galaxy IRAS 12112+0305," The
   Astrophysics Journal, 533, L9, 2000. Cooper, J. F., "The Jovian Hot
   Plasma Interactions with the Surfaces of the Icy Satellites," 33rd
   COSPAR Science Assembly, Warsaw, Poland, July 16-23, 2000. Cooper, J.
   F., R. E. Johnson, B. H. Mauk, H. B. Garrett, and N. Gehrels,
   "Energetic Ion Electron Irradiation of the Icy Galilean Satellites,"
   Icarus, 149, 133-159, 2000. Cooper, J. F., R. E. Johnson, and V. I.
   Shematovich, "Production of Europa`s Oxidants by Magnetospheric and
   Solar UV Irradiation," American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting,
   December 15-19, San Francisco, CA, 2000. Eastman, T. E., S. A.
   Boardsen, S. H. Chen, S. F. Fung, and R. L. Kessel, "Configuration of
   High- Latitude and High-Altitude Boundary Layers," Journal of
   Geophysical Research, 105, 23221- 23238, 2000. Fung, S. F., R. F.
   Benson, J. L. Green, B. W. Reinisch, D. M. Maines, I. A. Galkin, G. S.
   Sales, X. Huang, J. -L. Bougeret, R. Manning, P. H. Reiff, D. L.
   Carpenter, D. L. Gallagher, and W. W. L. Taylor, "First Observations by
   the Radio Plasma Imager on IMAGE," Huntsville 2000 Workshop, Pine
   Mountain, GA, October 30-November 2, 2000. 28 SSDOO OVERVIEW Fung, S.
   F., "Plasmaspheric Ducted Echoes Observed by the Radio Plasma Imager on
   IMAGE," American Geophysical Union Meeting, San Francisco, CA, December
   15-19, 2000. Green, J. L., "Overview of the Observations from the Radio
   Plasma Imager on IMAGE," American Geophysical Union Meeting, San
   Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000. Green, J. L., R. F. Benson, S. F.
   Fung, W. W. L. Taylor, S. A. Boardsen, B. W. Reinisch, D. M. Haines, K.
   Bibl, G. Cheney, I. A. Galkin , X. Huang, S. H. Myers, G. S. Sales, J.
   - L. Bougeret, R. Manning, N. Meyer-Vernet, M. Moncuquet, D. L.
   Carpenter, D. L. Gallagher, and P. Reiff, "Radio Plasma Imager
   Simulations and Measurements," Space Science Reviews, IMAGE Special
   Issue, 91, 361-389, February, 2000. Green, J. L., R. F. Benson, S. F.
   Fung, W. W. L. Taylor, S. A. Boardsen, and B. W. Reinisch, "Radio
   Imaging in the Earth`s Magnetosphere, in Radio Astronomy at Long
   Wavelengths," Geophysical Monograph, 119, 359-372, edited by R. G.
   Stone, K. W. Weiler, M. L. Goldstein, and J. -L. Bougeret, American
   Geophysical Union, Washington, DC, 2000. Huang, X., B. W. Reinisch, and
   D. Bilitza, "IRI in Windows Environment," in Proceedings of the IRI
   Task Force Activity 1999, The Abdus Salam International Centre for
   Theoretical Physics, edited by S. M. Radicella, 27-32, Trieste, Italy,
   2000. Kashlinsky, A., and S. Odenwald, "Clustering of the Diffuse
   Infrared Light from the COBE DIRBE Maps. III. Power Spectrum Analysis
   and Excess Isotropic Component of Fluctuations," The Astrophysical
   Journal, 528, no. 1, 74-95, 2000. Kessel, R. L., and S. Kanekal, "High
   Speed Solar Wind Streams Influence on Magnetosphere," EGS General
   Assembly, Nice, France, April 25-29, 2000. Kessel, R.L., "ISTP
   Multi-Point Observations of Earth's Bow Shock," in Proceedings of the
   Cluster-II Workshop on Multiscale/Multipoint Plasma Measurements, ESA,
   SP-449, 393-396, 2000. Kessel, R. L., "Survey of Upstream ULF Waves
   During High Speed Streams," American Geophysical Union Meeting, San
   Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000. Kessel, R. L., "The Effect of High
   Speed Solar Wind Streams on Earth's Magnetosphere," Energetic Particles
   Workshop, Maui, HI, January 12-14, 2000. King, J. H., "1999 Annual
   Statistics and Highlights Report for the National Space Science Data
   Center," National Space Science Data Center, March, 2000. King, J. H.,
   "The National Space Science Data Center Archive Plan, 2000-2002,"
   National Space Science Data Center, September, 2000. Leisawitz, D. T.,
   J. C. Mather, W. Langer, S. H. Moseley, Jr., L. G. Mundy, M. Swain, H.
   W. Yorke, and X. Zhang, "Far-Infrared/Submillimeter Interferometry: A
   Space Frontier," Science with the Atacama Large Millimeter Array, in
   press, (2000). Leisawitz, D. T., "Science Potential of the SPIRIT and
   SPECS Far-IR Submillimeter Interferometry Missions," XXIVth IAU General
   Assembly, Manchester, UK, August 13-18, 2000. SSDOO OVERVIEW 29
   Leisawitz, D. T., W. Danchi, M. DiPirro, L. D. Feinberg, D. Gezari, M.
   Hagopian, W. D. Langer, J. C. Mather, S. H. Moseley, Jr., M. Shao, R.
   F. Silverberg, J. Staguhn, M. R. Swain, H. W. Yorke, and X. Zhang,
   "Scientific Motivation and Technology Requirements for the SPIRIT and
   SPECS Far-Infrared/Submillimeter Space Interferometers," in Proceedings
   of the Society of Photo- Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 4013, in
   press, 2000. Leisawitz, D. T., J. C. Mather, S. H. Moseley, Jr., E.
   Dwek, L. Feinberg, M. Harwit, L. G. Mundy, R. F. Mushotzky, D. Neufeld,
   D. Spergel, E. L. Wright, and X. Zhang, "The Submillimeter Probe of the
   Evolution of Cosmic Structure," A New Millinnium for Galaxy Morphology,
   in press, (2000). Leisawitz, D. T., J. C. Mather, S. H. Moseley, W.
   Danchi, E. Dwek, D. Gesari, J. Pedelty, R. Silverberg, J. Staguhn, H.
   Yorke, and X. Huang, "The Uniqueness Space for SPIRIT and SPECS," 195th
   Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Atlanta, GA, January
   11-15, 2000. Lucas, R. A., K. D. Borne, F. Varosi, H. Bushouse, and L.
   Colina, "HST Observations of the IR-Ultraluminous QSO IRAS 13349+2438,"
   Bulletin of the American Asronomical Society, 195, no. 17.09, 2000.
   Mayo, L. A., R. Gabrys, G. Clark, and M. Pappas, "Remote Access
   Observatories: Live Astronomy in the Classroom," American Geophysical
   Union, San Francisco, CA, December 15-19, 2000. McDonald, F. B., L. F.
   Burlaga, R. E. McGuire, and N. F. Ness, "The Onset of Long-term Cosmic
   Ray Modulation in Cycle 23 Coupled with a Transient Increase of
   Anomalous Cosmic Rays in the Distant Heliosphere," Journal of
   Geophysical Research, 105, 20997, 2000. McGuire, R. E., R. J. Burley,
   R. M. Candey, R. L. Kessel, and T. J. Kovalick, "CDAWeb and SSCWeb:
   Enabling Correlative International Sun-Earth-Connections Science
   Entering the Era of IMAGE and Cluster," American Geophysical Union, San
   Francisco, CA, May 30-June 3, 2000. Moorer, D. F., S. F. Fung, and D.
   N. Baker, "An Analog Method for Forecasting Outer Belt Electron Flux,"
   in Proceedings of the Space Radiation Environment Workshop,
   Farnborough, Hampshire, U.K., November 1-5, 1999, submitted, 2000.
   Papitashvili, V. O., N. E. Papitashvili, and J. H. King, "Solar Cycle
   Effects in Planetary Geomagnetic Activity: Analysis of 36-Year Long
   OMNI Dataset," Geophysical Research Letters, 27, no. 17, pp. 2797-2800,
   March, 2000. Rasmussen, O., B. Pedersen, K. Bisgaard, J. Watermann, N.
   O. Papitashvili, and M. Mandea, "Ground-based Geomagnetic Data to
   Support the RSTED Mission," RSTED International Science Team Meeting,
   Grasse, France, May 2-4, 2000. Rawer, K., D. Bilitza, K. Oyama and W.
   Singer, "Lower Ionosphere: Data and Models," Advances in Space
   Research, 25, no. 1, 2000. Reiff, P. H., J. Goldstein, V. K. Henize, J.
   L. Green, S. F. Fung, and B. W. Reinisch, "IMAGE: First RPI Echoes from
   the Cusp," American Geophysical Union Spring Meeting, Washington, DC,
   May 30-June 2, 2000. 30 SSDOO OVERVIEW Reinisch, B. W., D. M. Haines,
   I. A. Galkin, X. Huang, J. L. Green, R. F. Benson, S. F. Fung, and W.
   W. L. Taylor, "First Echo Traces From the Magnetopause and Plasmasphere
   Seen by the Radio Plasma Imager on IMAGE," American Geophysical Union
   Spring Meeting, Washington, DC, May 30-June 2, 2000. Shao, M., W.
   Danchi, M. DiPirro, M. Dragovan, L. Feinberg, M. Hagopian, W. Langer,
   C. Lawrence, P. Lawson, D. Leisawitz, J. Mather, S. H. Moseley, M.
   Swain, H. Yorke, X. Zhang, "Space-based Interferometric Telescopes for
   the Far-Infrared, Interferometry in Optical Astronomy," in Proceedings
   of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 4006, in
   press, 2000. Shaya, E. J., B. Holmes, B. Thomas, and C. Y. Cheung,
   "XDF: An Advanced XML Based Format for Scientific Data," Virtual
   Observatories Conference, Pasadena, CA, June 1217, 2000. Sawyer, D. M.,
   and L. Reich, "The Open Archival Information System: The Value and
   Process of Developing a Reference Model," CENDI Meeting, Reston, VA,
   June 19, 2000. Sonwalkar, V. S., X. Chem, J. Harikumar, D. L.
   Carpenter, M. Salvati, T. F. Bell, W. W. L. Taylor, S. F. Fung, J. L.
   Green, B. W. Reinisch, J. Goldstein, and P. Reiff, "Initial
   Observations and Analysis of Whistler Mode Echoes Received by RPI on
   IMAGE," American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San Francisco, CA,
   December 15-19, 2000. Taylor, W. W. L., S. Klimov, and W. Pine,
   "INTIMS-April/2000 Operations Schedule," The INSPIRE Journal, 9, no. 1,
   7-8, 2000. Taylor, W. W. L., and W. Pine, "Observation Opportunities
   Using Space-based Platforms: Update on the Status of IMAGE and MIR,"
   The INSPIRE Journal, 9, no. 1, 5-6, 2000. Taylor, W. W. L.,
   "Propagation Experiments from IMAGE to the Ground," The INSPIRE
   Journal, 9, no. 1. 10-22, 2000. Taylor, W. W. L., S. Odenwald, P.
   Reiff, S. Higley, T. Smith, W. Pine, and A. DiMarco, "The IMAGE
   Education and Public Outreach Program: Bringing POETRY to the K-12
   Community," American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San Francisco, CA,
   December 15-19, 2000. Thieman, J. R., E. V. Bell, M. A. Hapgood, C. C.
   Harvey, T. Levoir, and J. D. Winningham, "A Data Search Tool for
   Interoperable Searches Among Independent Space Physics Data Centers,"
   CODATA 2000, Baveno, Italy, Oct. 1419, 2000. Thieman, J. R., "Audio
   Astronomy and Water-Free Weather," Science Teachers Association of New
   York State Annual Conference, Ellenville, NY, November 4-8, 2000.
   Thieman, J. R., C. A. Higgins, W. Greenman, F. Reyes, R. Flagg, J.
   Ciotti, and J. Sky, "Jupiter Calling: Planetary Radio Astronomy on the
   Web," American Geophysical Union Meeting, San Francisco, CA, December
   15-19, 2000. Thieman, J. R., and C. A. Higgins, "Project Radio JOVE:
   Hands-On Radio Astronomy for the Classroom," AAS Division of Planetary
   Sciences Meeting, Pasadena, CA, October 23-27, 2000. SSDOO OVERVIEW 31
   Thieman, J. R., C. A. Higgins, F. Reyes and J. Mukherjee, "Radio Active
   Jupiter!," NSTA Convention, Orlando, FL, Apr. 69, 2000. Tylka, A. J.,
   P. R. Boberg, R. E. McGuire, C. K. Ng, and D. V. Reames, "Temporal
   Evolution in the Spectra of Gradual Solar Energetic Particle Events,"
   in Proceedings of the ACE 2000 Workshop, in press, Palm Beach, CA,
   2000. Washabaugh, A., N. Goldfine, and M. Van Steenberg, "Inductive and
   Capacitive Sensor Arrays for Subsurface Monitoring and Imaging," First
   Astrobiology Conference, Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA, April
   3-5, 2000. Abstracts Burley, R. J., J. L. Green, and S. E. Coyle, "The
   IMAGE Science and Missions Operations Center, Space Science Reviews,"
   IMAGE special issue, 91, 483-496, February, 2000. Fung, S. F., R. F.
   Benson, D. L. Carpenter, B. W. Reinisch, and D. L. Gallagher,
   "Investigations of Plasma Irregularities in Remote Plasma Regions by
   Radio Sounding: Applications of the Radio Plasma Imager on IMAGE, Space
   Science Reviews, IMAGE special issue, 91, 391-419, February, 2000.
   Fung, S. F., "First Observations of Magnetospheric Plasmas by the Radio
   Plasma Imager on the IMAGE Satellite," Presented at the Space and
   Cosmic Ray Physics Seminar, University of Maryland, College Park,
   October 16, 2000. Fung, S. F., R. F. Benson, J. L. Green, B. W.
   Reinisch, D. M. Haines, I. A. Galkin, G. S. Sales, X. Huang, J. -L.
   Bougeret, R. Manning, P. H. Reiff, D. L. Carpenter, D. L. Gallagher,
   and W. W. L. Taylor, "First Observations by the Radio Plasma Imager on
   IMAGE," Presented at the Seventh Huntsville Workshop, Callaway Gardens,
   GA, October 30-Nov. 3, 2000. Fung, S.F., R. F. Benson, J. L. Green, and
   B. W. Reinisch, "Observations of Magnetospheric Plasmas by the Radio
   Plasma Imager on the IMAGE Mission," Presented at the 33rd COSPAR
   Scientific Assembly, Warsaw, Poland, July 19-23, 2000. Fung, S.F., J.
   L. Burch, and J. L. Green, "The IMAGE Mission," Presented at the 33rd
   COSPAR Scientific Assembly, Warsaw, Poland, July 19-23, 2000. Green, J.
   L., R. F. Benson, S. F. Fung, W. W. L. Taylor, S. A. Boardsen, B. W.
   Reinisch, D. M. Haines, K. Bibl, G. Cheney, I. A. Galkin, X. Huang,
   S.H. Myers, G.S. Sales, J. -L. Bougeret, R. Manning, N. Meyer-Vernet,
   M. Moncuquet, D. L. Carpenter, D. L. Gallagher, and P. H Reiff, "Radio
   Plasma Imager Simulations and Measurements," Space Science Reviews,
   IMAGE special issue, 91, 361-389, February, 2000. Green, J. L.,
   "Geomagnetic Storms from Solar Eruptive Events," presented at the
   International Conference on Solar Eruptive Events, Catholic University
   of America, Washington DC, March 6-9, 2000. Green, J. L., J. L. Burch,
   B. Reinisch, W. W. L. Taylor, and S. F. Fung, "The IMAGE Mission -
   Global Views of a Geomagnetic Storm," First S-RAMP Conference, Sapporo,
   Japan, October 2-6, 2000. 32 SSDOO OVERVIEW Henize, V. K., P. H. Reiff,
   S. F. Fung, J. L. Green, B. W. Reinisch, and J. Goldstein, "Time-
   Dependant Cusp Injection Observations Using the IMAGE Satellite Radio
   Sounder," presented at the 33rd COSPAR Scientific Assembly, Warsaw,
   Poland, July 19-23, 2000. Kessel, R. L., "High Speed Solar Wind Streams
   at Earth," presented at the Second Relativistic Electron Workshop,
   Maui, Hawaii, January 2000. Kessel, R. L., "High Speed Solar Wind
   Streams Influence on Magnetosphere," presented at the European
   Geophysical Society meeting, Nice, France, April 2000. Kessel, R. L.,
   "Influence of High Speed Solar Wind Streams on Earth's Magnetosphere,"
   presented at the American Geophysical Union meeting, Washington, D.C.,
   May 2000. Kessel, R. L., "NASA Roles in Education," presented at the
   Baker University, Baldwin, Kansas, February 2000. Kessel, R. L., "The
   Invisible Milky Way," presented at the Baker University, Baldwin,
   Kansas, February 2000. Odenwald, S. F., W. W. L. Taylor, and P. H
   Reiff, "The IMAGE/POETRY Education and Public Outreach Program," Space
   Science Reviews, IMAGE special issue, 91, 497-506, February, 2000.
   Odenwald, S. F., "Solar Storms: The Silent Menace," Sky & Telescope,
   99, 3, March 2000. Reinisch, B. W., D. M. Haines, I. A. Galkin, X.
   Huang, G. Sales, J. L. Green, R. F. Benson, S. F. Fung, W. W. L.
   Taylor, R. Manning, P. H. Reiff, D. L. Carpenter, and D.L. Gallagher,
   "The Radio Plasma Imager Investigation on the IMAGE Spacecraft," Space
   Science Reviews, IMAGE special issue, 91, pp. 319-359, February, 2000.
   Rilee, M. L., and J. L. Green, "Automated Detection of the Magnetopause
   for Space Weather from the IMAGE Satellite," in Proceedings of the
   Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 14th Annual
   International AeroSense Symposium, April 2000. Poster Presentations
   Cheung, C. Y., "Preparing the ADC for the Virtual Observatory of the
   Future," Virtual Observatories Conference, Pasadena, CA, June 14-16,
   2000. Cheung, C. Y., and N. Rossopoulos, "Building a Federated
   Interoperability Substrate," Virtual Observatories Conference,
   Pasadena, CA, June 14-16, 2000. Green, J. L., "The IMAGE Mission,"
   Goddard Space Flight Center Teas and Posters, Greenbelt, Maryland,
   January 11, 2000. Thomas, B., E. Shaya, G. Schneider, R. Pisarski, and
   C. Y. Cheung, "Faster Ingest of Published Data: An SGML/XML Based
   Pipeline," Virtual Observatories Conference, Pasadena, CA, June 1217,
   2000. Holmes, B. M., J. E. Gass, E. J. Shaya, J. H. Blackwell, G. L.
   Schneider, N. Odegard, K. D. Borne, C. Y. Cheung, and T. J. Sodroski,
   "Using XML Metadata to Locate Data Tables at the ADC," Virtual
   Observatories Conference, Pasadena, CA, June 14-16, 2000. SSDOO
   OVERVIEW 33 Newsletters Borne, K. D., "ADC's Scientific Users' Guide /
   Demo Page Go On-Line," Science Information Systems Newsletter, 57,
   2000. Garrett, J., "NASA Control Authority Office Metadata
   Registration," presented at The Open Forum on Metadata Registries,
   Santa Fe, NM, January 18, 2000. Garrett, J. and D. Sawyer, "OAIS
   Reference Model Garnering Wide Spread Recognition," Science Information
   Systems Newsletter, 58, 2000. Gass, J. E. and B. M. Holmes, "An
   XML-Based Prototype ADC Search Service," Science Information Systems
   Newsletter, 54, 11-12, 2000. Mayo, L., "Space Weather Exhibit Comes to
   Baltimore," Science Information Systems Newsletter, 58, 2000.
   Papitashvili, N. E., and O. Rasmussen, "Graphical Browsing of 1-minute
   Geomagnetic Data at WDC for Geomagnetism," Copenhagen, International
   SCOSTEP Newsletter, 3, no. 3, 3-4, 2000. Astronomical Data Center
   Electronic News (electronic bulletin) published quarterly by the NSSDC,
   4 issues: Vol. 9, No. 1, January 2000 Vol. 9, No. 2, April 2000 Vol. 9,
   No. 3, July 2000 Vol. 9, No. 4, October 2000 NSSDC News, Volume 16,
   Number 1, March 2000 * ACE Mission Data Overview * Vote Approaching on
   Data Base Protection Legislation * Several Grants Won by SSDOO Staffers
   * IMAGE Spacecraft Is Successfully Launched * IMP LEPEDEA Data Made
   FTP-Accessible * NASIRC Contributes to Successful NASA-Wide Y2K
   Transition * NOST News * NSSDC and SSDOO Quietly Ring in the New
   Century * V. Petrov Brings Russian Magnetic Field Data to NSSDC *
   Sun-Earth Connects to Education and Outreach * Multi-Decadal Patterns
   Detected in Solar Wind Longitude Variations * Cascading Style Sheets
   Used for NSSDC Web Pages * IMP 15-s Magnetometer Data Added to CDAWeb
   34 SSDOO OVERVIEW NSSDC News, Volume 16, Number 2, June 2000 * Numeric
   Listings on Archived Microfilm Converted to ASCII Files * New Milky Way
   Educational Video Debuts * FTP Helper - A New Tool for Previewing
   FTP-Accessible ASCII Data * PDS Interacts with NEAR Mission to Prepare
   Archive Pipeline * Computer Security at NSSDC * Key NSSDC Data Bases
   Updated * Meet NSSDC's Staff of System Administrators * NSSDC Acquires
   Prognoz Magnetic Field Data * Systematic Digitization on NSSDC Film
   Archive Begins * Managing Complex Distributed Processes Using
   Electronic Handbooks * Nost NEWS * CDF Enhancements Continue * Report
   on 1999 NSSDC Highlights and Statistics Available NSSDC News, Volume
   16, Number 3, September 2000 * Viking Lander Biology Data Restored by
   NSSDC and PDS * Archive Reference Model Gains Wide Acceptance * French
   SPASE Connection: NSSDC Welcomes CNES Collaborator Thierry Levoir *
   Latest NSSDC Archive Plan Now on Web * GSFC Space Science Director Head
   Retires * Educators Join the Sun-Earth Connection Education Forum *
   ADF`s Rich Pisarski Moves to NASA Ames for a Year * Vampola Data Sets
   from DoD Satellites Now at NSSDC * Summer Interns Star at NSSDC/SSDOO *
   SSDOO Depends on Capable Administrative Staff * NSSDC Web Site Selected
   to Showcase NASA's Commitment to Accessibility * David Han Finishes
   NSSDC Tour NSSDC News, Volume 16, Number 4, December 2000 * Open
   Archival Information System and the NSSDC * NSSDC Canonical File *
   Functions of the DIOnAS and Related Software * Visitors from Spain and
   Czech Republic at NSSDC * Software Development Approaches and Teaming
   at NSSDC * Meet NSSDC's Data Management Software Developers *
   International Meeting of World Data Center Directors Held * SWAS Data
   Available * Data Preparation and Transfer Operations * New
   Interball-Tail Magnetic Field Data Available * SECEF Plans Solar Events
   for Classrooms and Museums * NSSDC Integrates Data Pathways * Longevity
   of CDs at NSSDC * IMAGE Sends Archival Information Packages to NSSDC
   SSDOO OVERVIEW 35 SPACEWARN Bulletin * Bulletin No. 554, January 1,
   2000 * Bulletin No. 555, February 1, 2000 * Bulletin No. 556, March 1.
   2000 * Bulletin No. 557, April 1, 2000 * Bulletin No. 558, May 1, 2000
   * Bulletin No. 559, June 1. 2000 * Bulletin No. 560, July 1, 2000 *
   Bulletin No. 561, August 1, 2000 * Bulletin No. 562, September 1, 2000
   * Bulletin No. 563, October 1, 2000 * Bulletin No. 564, November 1,
   2000 * Bulletin No. 565, December 1. 2000 36 SSDOO OVERVIEW ACRONYMS
   SSDOO SSDOO AAS American Astronomical Society ACE Advanced Composition
   Explorer ADC Astronomical Data Center ADF Astrophysics Data Facility
   ADS Astrophysics Data System AGU American Geophysical Union AMASE
   Astrophysics Multispectral Archive Search Engine ASCA Advanced
   Satellite for Cosmology, and Astrophysics ASCII American Standard Code
   for Information Interchange BAAS Bulletin of the American Astronomical
   Society CCSDS Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems CDAW
   Coordinated Data Analysis Workshop CDF Common Data Format CD-ROM
   Compact Disc-Read Only Memory CDS Centre de Donnés Astronomiques de
   Strasbourg CENDI Commerce-Energy-NASA-Defense-Interior COBE Cosmic
   Background Explorer CODATA Committee on Data for Science and Technology
   COHO Coordinated Heliospheric Observations CoI Co Investigator COSPAR
   Committee on Space Research DIOnAS Data Ingest and Online Access
   Services DIRBE Diffuse Infrared Background Experiment DLT Digital
   Linear Tape EGS European Geophysical Society EOS Earth Observing System
   ESA European Space Agency EUVE Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer FAST Fast
   Auroral Snapshot Explorer FITS Flexible Image Transport System FTP
   Anonymous File Transfer Protocol SSDOO OVERVIEW 37 GGS Global Geospace
   Science GLAST Gamma Ray Large Area Space Telescope GSFC Goddard Space
   Flight Center HEASARC High Energy Astrophysics Science Archive Research
   Center IACG Inter-Agency Consultative Group IAU International
   Astronomical Union IMAGE Imager for Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global
   Exploration IMP Interplanetary Monitoring Platform IMS International
   Magnetospheric Study INSPIRE Interactive NASA Space Physics Ionospheric
   Radio Experiments INTMINS INTerball Mir INSpire IRAS Infrared
   Astronomical Satellite (The Netherlands-NASA-U.K.) ISAS Institute for
   Space and Astronomical Studies ISO Interoperable Systems Office ISTP
   International Solar-Terrestrial Physics IUE International Ultraviolet
   Explorer (satellite, NASA-U.K.-ESA) IUWDS International URSIGRAM and
   World Days Service KP Key Parameter LEPEDEA Low Energy Proton and
   Electron Differential Energy Analyzer LHEA Laboratory for High Energy
   Astrophysics MAP Microwave Anisotropy Probe MD Master Directory (NASA)
   MIDEX Mid-Sized Explorer Projects MIT Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASIRC
   NASA-Wide Automated Systems Incident Response Capability NDADS NSSDC
   Data Archive and Distribution Service NOST NASA/Science Office of
   Standards and Technology NSSDC National Space Science Data Center
   (NASA) NSTA National Science Teachers Association OAIS Open Archival
   Information System OODB Object Oriented Data Base PDMP Project Data
   Management Plan PDS Planetary Data System PI Principal Investigator
   POETRY Public Outreach, Education, Teaching and Reaching Youth R&D
   Research and Development RITSS Raytheon Information Technology and
   Scientific Services ROSAT Roentgen Satellite RPI Radio Plasma Imaging
   RXTE Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer 38 SSDOO OVERVIEW SFDU Standard
   Formatted Data Unit SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language SIMBAD
   Set of Identifications, Measurements, and Bibliography for Astronomical
   Data SPDF Space Physics Data Facility SPDS Space Physics Data System
   SPECS Submillimeter Probe of the Evaluation of Cosmic Structures SPIE
   Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers SPIRIT Space
   Infrared Interferometric Telescope SPOF Science Planning and Operation
