http://gpm.gsfc.nasa.gov/science.htm

   skip to text

   GPM Title Banner
   Global Precipitation Measurement Navigation Bar

Science:

   GPM's Main Science Objectives Focus On:
     * Improving climate prediction -- through better understanding of
       water cycling and accompanying accelerations -- decelerations of
       atmospheric and surface branches of water cycle
     * Improving weather forecasting -- through better methods of rainfall
       data assimilation and more accurate and precise measurements of
       instantaneous rainrates
     * Improving flood hazard and basin-scale hydrological predictions --
       through more frequent sampling and full-Earth coverage of
       precipitation measurements

   GPM's Nine Science Themes and Working Group Leads:
    1. Global Water and Energy Cycle Processes and Modeling: Role of
       Precipitation (Prof. Eric Wood, Princeton)
    2. Climate System Variability and Climate Diagnostics: Role of
       Precipitation (Dr. Franklin Robertson, NASA MSFC @ GHCC)
    3. Climate Model Simulations and Reanalysis, NWP Techniques, and Data
       Assimilation: Role of Precipitation (Dr. Arthur Hou, NASA GSFC)
    4. Land Surface Hydrology and Hydrometeorological Modeling: Role of
       Precipitation (Dr. Harry Cooper, Florida State University)
    5. Ocean Surface and Marine Boundary Layer Processes: Role of
       Precipitation (Dr. Vikram Mehta, NASA GSFC)
    6. Coupled Cloud-Radiation Modeling: Physical Interpretation of
       Precipitation Processes (Prof. Gregory Tripoli, University of
       Wisconsin and Dr. Wei-K. Tao, NASA GSFC)
    7. a. Precipitation Retrieval: Reference Radar-Radiometer Core
       Algorithm/Radar Simulator Studies (Dr. Ziad Haddad, NASA JPL)
       b. Precipitation Retrieval: Parametric Radiometer Constellation
       Algorithm/Radiometer Simulator Studies (Prof. Christian Kummerow,
       Colorado State University)
       c. Precipitation Retrieval: Cross-Satellite Calibration Transfer
       and Bias Removal (Dr. Eric Smith, NASA GSFC)
    8. Calibration and Validation of Satellite Precipitation Measurements
       (Dr. Sandra Yuter and Prof. Robert Houze, University of Washington)
    9. Forecast Applications, Public Service and Educational Outreach (Dr.
       Marshall Shepherd, NASA GSFC)


   Take a look at the GPM European science site to help in the definition
   of GPM's scientific, observational and mission requirements.



   Curator: Leslie Cusick
   Last revised:
   Responsible NASA Official: Jim Adams, (301) 286-2508
