http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/socscience_part1_final.pdf

   Preliminary Social Science Subject Matter Requirements Domain 1. World
   History Candidates study the people, major events, and issues of the
   major Western and non- Western civilizations from the origins of
   humankind to the present. In their study of world history, candidates
   apply higher-level thinking skills. These skills include, but are not
   limited to, the ability to analyze, interpret, compare and contrast,
   and synthesize significant historical issues in both written and oral
   presentation. Candidates utilize appropriate research skills and
   primary and secondary sources. They engage in historiographic thinking,
   and are aware of multiple historical and geographic perspectives.
   Candidates appreciate the fundamental role geography plays in
   historical inquiry, and they understand and are able to apply the
   principles of political science and economics to historical analysis.
   1.1 Ancient Civilizations Candidates analyze the geography, history,
   and cultures of Africa, Eurasia, and the Americas from the origins of
   humankind to the decline of the Roman Empire. Candidates: a. Describe
   what is known of the early physical and cultural development of
   humankind, from the Paleolithic era to the agricultural revolution,
   explaining how the methods of archaeology and anthropology contribute
   to the understanding of prehistory. b. Describe and analyze the impact
   of human interaction with the physical environment (e.g., climate,
   landforms, soils, water) on the development of the ancient cultures of
   Fertile Crescent (e.g., Sumerian, Babylonian, Hebrew) Persia, Egypt,
   Kush, Greece, India, China, Rome, and pre-Columbian America. c.
   Describe and analyze the religious, social, economic, and political
   structures of the ancient cultures of Mesopotamia, Persia, Egypt, Kush,
   Greece, India, China, Rome, and pre-Columbian America, and describe and
   analyze their intellectual, ethical, scientific, and artistic
   accomplishments and values. d. Describe and analyze the foundations of
   western political and philosophical thought in ancient Greek, Roman,
   and Judeo-Christian traditions. e. Describe and analyze the foundations
   of Asian political and philosophical thought in ancient Chinese and
   Indian traditions (e.g., Legalism, Taoism, Confucianism, Hinduism,
   Buddhism). f. Describe and analyze the importance and patterns of
   expansion and contraction of empires, religions, and trade that
   influenced various regional cultures through the decline of the Roman
   Empire. 1.2 Medieval and Early Modern Times Candidates trace and
   analyze historical interpretations of cause and effect, sequence, and
   correlation of the social, cultural, political, economic, and
   technological developments in Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Americas
   from A.D.500-1790. Candidates: a. Analyze the impact of geography,
   including both human and physical features, on the development of
   medieval and early-modern Asian, African (including sub-Saharan),
   Muslim, pre-Columbian American, and European civilizations. Social
   Science, Part I 1 b. Trace the decline of the Western Roman Empire and
   the development of the Byzantine Empire, and analyze the emergence of
   these two distinct European civilizations and their views on religion,
   culture, society, and politics. c. Describe the role and expansion of
   Christianity in medieval and early modern Europe and the Middle East.
   d. Identify the basic tenets of Islam, and describe Islamic society and
   culture between the beginning of the 7th century and the end of the
   18th century. e. Analyze the religious and secular contributions of
   Islam to European, African and Asian civilizations and the impact of
   medieval Muslim civilization on Asia, Africa, and Europe between the
   beginning of the 7th century and the end of the 18th century. f.
   Analyze and compare and contrast the development of feudalism as a
   social, political, and economic system in Europe and Japan. g. Compare
   and contrast the geographic, political, economic, religious, and social
   structures of pre-Columbian American civilizations in North and South
   America between A.D. 500 and the end of the 18th century. h. Analyze
   the geographic, political, economic, religious, and social structures
   of Asia and Africa between A.D. 500 and the end of the 18th century. i.
   Analyze the art, literature, music, science, and technology of the
   Renaissance and their diffusion and impact throughout Europe. j.
   Analyze the political and religious transformations caused by the
   Reformation and their impact on Europe. k. Analyze the historical
   developments of the Scientific Revolution and the ideas of the
   Enlightenment and their effects on social, religious, political,
   economic, and cultural institutions. 1.3 Modern World History
   Candidates trace and analyze the major developments in the modern world
   from the late 18th century through the present. Candidates: a. Describe
   and evaluate the significance of the "Age of Exploration," and the main
   ideas of the Enlightenment and their influences on social, political,
   religious, and economic thought and practice. b. Compare and contrast
   the American Revolution and the French Revolution and their enduring
   worldwide effects on political expectations for self-government and
   individual liberty. c. Describe and analyze the emergence of
   nationalism in the 18th and 19th centuries and its impact on Western,
   African, and Asian societies. d. Analyze the causes and effects of the
   Industrial Revolution, including its impact on science, technology, and
   society. e. Describe the emergence and origins of new theories
   regarding politics, economics, literature, and the arts in the 18th,
   19th, and 20th centuries. f. Analyze the economic, political, social,
   and geographic factors contributing to the emergence of 19th-century
   imperialism, and evaluate its impact on Africa, Southeast Asia, China,
   India, Latin America, and the Philippines. g. Compare and contrast the
   social, political, and economic factors that influenced the Russian
   revolutions of 1905 and 1917. Social Science, Part I 2 h. Analyze the
   origins and course of World War I and its effects on Europe and the
   rest of the world, including its impact on science, technology, the
   arts, politics, society, economics, and geography. i. Analyze the
   conflict between fascist and Marxist/communist ideologies, and the
   rise, goals, and policies of dictatorships and totalitarian governments
   between the two World Wars. j. Analyze the origins, course, and
   consequences of World War II, including the human cost of the war
   (e.g., the Holocaust), the resulting redrawing of boundaries, and the
   movement of peoples in Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East. k.
   Analyze the international developments of the post-World War II era,
   including de-colonization, nationalism, nation-building, the
   development of international organizations, and global migration. l.
   Analyze the Cold War from its origins in the post-World War II 1940s to
   the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, including its impact on
   social, cultural, political, economic, technological, and geographic
   developments in the world. m. Analyze the emergence of a global economy
   and its impact on the environment, epidemiology, and demographics, and
   the development and impact of the information, technology, and
   communications revolutions. n. Describe the causes and effects of
   genocide in the 20th century, including, but not limited to, the
   Armenian genocide, the Holocaust, and post-World War II "ethnic
   cleansing." o. Explain and evaluate the strategic importance of the
   Middle East and the volatile political relations within the region. p.
   Analyze the global reemergence of religious fundamentalism and its
   impact on government, culture, and human rights. Domain 2. U.S. History
   Candidates study the people and major events and issues of United
   States history from the colonization of North America to the present.
   In their study of U.S. history, they apply higher level thinking
   skills. These skills include, but are not limited to, the ability to
   analyze, interpret, compare and contrast, and synthesize significant
   historical issues in both written and oral presentation. Candidates
   utilize appropriate research skills and primary and secondary sources.
   They engage in historiographic thinking, and are aware of multiple
   historical and geographic perspectives. Candidates appreciate the
   fundamental role geography plays in historical inquiry, and they
   understand and apply the principles of political science and economics
   to historical analysis of U.S. history. 2.1 Pre-Revolutionary Era and
   the War for Independence Candidates describe the pre-Revolutionary era
   from early European exploration and settlement through the War for
   Independence. Candidates: a. Describe the major American Indian
   cultural groups and their contributions to early American society. b.
   Explain and analyze the struggle for the control of North America among
   European powers and the emergence of the 13 colonies under English
   rule. Social Science, Part I 3 c. Analyze the effects of English,
   French, Dutch, and Spanish colonial rule on social, economic, and
   governmental structures in North America, and the relationships of
   these colonies with American Indian societies. d. Describe the
   institutionalization of African slavery in the Western Hemisphere and
   analyze its consequences in sub-Saharan Africa. e. Analyze the causes
   for the War for Independence, the conduct of the war, and its impact on
   Americans. 2.2 The Development of the Constitution and the Early
   Republic Candidates describe and analyze the development of the
   political system of the United States and the ways that citizens
   participate in it through executive, legislative and judicial
   processes. Candidates: a. Describe and evaluate the impact of the
   Enlightenment and the unique colonial experiences on the writing of the
   Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation, the Federalist
   Papers, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights. b. Examine the issues
   regarding ratification of the Constitution, and compare and contrast
   the positions of the Federalists and Anti-Federalists. 2.3 The
   Emergence of a New Nation Candidates describe the social, political,
   and economic developments of the American people between the
   ratification of the Constitution and the Civil War. Candidates: a.
   Describe the differing visions of the early political parties and
   explain the reasons for the respective successes and failures of those
   parties. b. Compare the significant political and socioeconomic ideas
   and issues during the Jeffersonian and Jacksonian periods and contrast
   how they were implemented in policy and practice. c. Describe American
   foreign policy prior to the Civil War. d. Analyze economic development
   policies, trace the growth of an interstate transportation system, and
   understand the debate over federal involvement in the "American
   System." e. Identify and describe the political, social, religious,
   economic, and geographic factors that led to the formation of distinct
   regional and sectional identities and cultures. f. Describe the
   purpose, challenges, and economic incentives associated with westward
   expansion, including the concept of Manifest Destiny. g. Map and
   analyze the expansion of U.S. borders and the settlement of the West,
   and describe how geographic features influenced this expansion. h.
   Analyze the evolution of American Indian policy to the Civil War. i.
   Describe and analyze the impact of slavery on American society,
   government, and economy, and the contributions of enslaved Africans to
   America, and trace the attempts to abolish slavery in the first half of
   the 19th century. j. Describe and compare and contrast early
   19th-century social and reform movements and their impact on antebellum
   American society (e.g., the Second Great Awakening, the temperance
   movement, the early women's movement, utopianism). Social Science, Part
   I 4 2.4 Civil War and Reconstruction Candidates explain and analyze the
   political, economic, geographic, and social causes and consequences of
   the Civil War. Candidates: a. Interpret the debates over the doctrines
   of nullification and state secession. b. Compare and contrast the
   strengths and weaknesses of the Union and Confederacy. c. Describe the
   major military and political turning points of the war. d. Describe and
   analyze the physical, social, political, and economic impact of the war
   on combatants, civilians, communities, states, and the nation. e.
   Analyze the effects of transportation and regional differences on
   events leading up to the war and on the conduct of the war. f. Compare
   and contrast plans for Reconstruction with its actual implementation.
   g. Explain and assess the development and adoption of segregation laws,
   the influence of social mores on the passage and implementation of
   these laws, and the rise of white supremacist organizations. h. Analyze
   the relationship of the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments to
   Reconstruction, and compare and contrast their initial and later
   interpretations. 2.5 The "Gilded Age" Candidates examine the
   relationship among post-Civil War economic development and political,
   social, and geographic issues and events in the second half of the 19th
   century. Candidates: a. Describe and analyze the role of entrepreneurs
   and industrialists and their impact on the United States economy. b.
   Describe and analyze the effects of industrialization on the American
   economy and society, including increased immigration, changing working
   conditions, and the growth of early labor organizations. c. Describe
   and analyze the location of industries from a geographic perspective,
   considering such factors as sources of power and resources,
   transportation, the labor supply, and the diffusion of technology. d.
   Explain and analyze the causes for, and the impact of, Populism and
   Progressivism. e. Explain the development of federal Indian
   policy-including the environmental consequences of forced migration
   into marginal regions-and its consequences for American Indians. f.
   Analyze the impact of industrialism and urbanization on the physical
   and social environments of the United States. 2.6 The U.S. as a World
   Power Candidates trace and evaluate the emergence of the U.S. as an
   economic, diplomatic, and military world power in the early 20th
   century. Candidates: a. Evaluate the debate about American
   imperialistic policies before, during and following the
   Spanish-American War. b. Analyze the political, economic, and
   geographic significance of the Panama Canal, the "Open Door" policy
   with China, Theodore Roosevelt's "Big Stick" Diplomacy, William Howard
   Taft's "Dollar" Diplomacy, and Woodrow Wilson's Moral Diplomacy. Social
   Science, Part I 5 c. Analyze the relationship of the U.S. with other
   countries, particularly European powers, and how these relationships
   contributed to American involvement in World War I. d. Evaluate the
   political, economic, social, and geographic consequences of World War I
   in terms of American foreign policy and the war's impact on the
   American home front. 2.7 The 1920s Candidates analyze the political,
   social, economic, technological, cultural, and geographic developments
   of the 1920s. Candidates: a. Analyze domestic events that resulted in,
   or contributed to, the Red Scare, Marcus Garvey's Back to Africa
   movement, the Ku Klux Klan, the American Civil Liberties Union, the
   National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the
   Anti-Defamation League. b. Analyze the significance of the passage of
   the 18th and 19th Amendments as they related to the changing political
   and economic roles of women in society. c. Assess changes in American
   immigration policy in the 1920s. d. Describe new trends in literature,
   music, and art, including the Harlem Renaissance and the Jazz Age. e.
   Assess the impact of radio, mass production techniques, and the growth
   of cities on American society. 2.8 The Great Depression and the New
   Deal Candidates analyze the social, political, economic, and geographic
   effects of the Great Depression and its impact on the changing role of
   government in economy and society. Candidates: a. Analyze the differing
   explanations for the 1929 stock market crash, Herbert Hoover's and
   Congress' responses to the crisis, and the implementation of Franklin
   Delano Roosevelt's New Deal policies. b. Describe and assess the human
   toll of the Great Depression, including the impact of natural disasters
   and agricultural practices on the migration from rural Southern and
   Eastern regions to urban and Western areas. c. Analyze the effects of,
   and controversies arising from, New Deal policies, including the social
   and physical consequences of regional programs (e.g., the Tennessee
   Valley Authority, the Central Valley Project). d. Trace and evaluate
   the gains and losses of organized labor in the 1930s. e. Analyze the
   transformation of federal Indian policy. 2.9 World War II Candidates
   analyze U.S. participation in World War II. Candidates: a. Explain the
   origins of American involvement in World War II, including reactions to
   events in Europe, Africa, and Asia. b. Explain Allied wartime
   strategies using political, economic, cultural, and geographic
   perspectives. c. Analyze American foreign policy before and during
   World War II. d. Evaluate and analyze significant events, issues, and
   experiences during World War II, including: Social Science, Part I 6 !
   Internment of people of Japanese ancestry ! Allied response to the
   Holocaust ! The experiences and contributions of American fighting
   forces, including the role of minorities (e.g., the Tuskegee Airmen,
   the 442nd Regimental Combat Unit, Navajo Code Talkers) ! The role of
   women and minority groups at home ! Major developments in aviation,
   weaponry, communications, and medicine ! The significance and
   ramifications of the decision to drop the atomic bomb e. Assess
   American foreign policy in the aftermath of World War II, using
   geographic, political, and economic perspectives. 2.10 Post-World War
   II America Candidates analyze the political, economic, social, and
   geographic transformation of post-World War II America. Candidates: a.
   Describe and evaluate the significance of changes in international
   migration patterns and their impact on society and the economy. b.
   Describe the increased role of the federal government in response to
   World War II and the Cold War and assess the impact of this increased
   role on regional economic structures, society, and the political
   system. c. Describe the effects of technological developments on
   society, politics, and the economy since 1945. d. Describe the changes
   and diffusion of popular culture and its impact on American society. e.
   Explain controversies associated with environmental issues, including
   air and water quality, the allocation of natural resources, and
   endangered species. f. Analyze the major domestic issues of
   presidential administrations from Harry S Truman to the present. g.
   Describe and analyze the evolving issues in American education. 2.11
   Post-World War II U.S. Foreign Policy Candidates analyze U.S. foreign
   policy since World War II and its impact on the world. Candidates: a.
   Trace the origins of the Cold War. b. Analyze the roles of the Truman
   Doctrine, the Marshall Plan, and military alliances, including the
   North American Treaty Organization (NATO), the South East Asian Treaty
   Organization (SEATO), and the Warsaw Pact. c. Trace the origins and
   consequences of the Korean War. d. Explain and analyze the relationship
   between domestic and foreign policy during the Cold War, including
   McCarthyism. e. Analyze the foreign policies of post-World War II
   presidential administrations and their effect on the Cold War. f. Trace
   the causes, controversies, and consequences of the Vietnam War, its
   effects on American combatants and civilians, and its continued impact
   on American society. g. Map and describe the changing borders,
   geopolitical consequences and conflicts and political and economic
   alliances of the post-World War II and post-Cold War period. Social
   Science, Part I 7 2.12 Civil Rights Movement Candidates trace the
   reasons for and the development of civil rights from World War II to
   the present. Candidates: a. Examine and analyze the key events,
   policies, and court cases in the field of civil rights. b. Analyze the
   role and varying perspectives of major civil rights advocates and
   movements. c. Describe the civil rights movements of African Americans
   and other minority groups and their impacts on government, society, and
   the economy. d. Analyze the development of the women's rights movement
   and its connections to other social and political movements. Domain 3.
   California History Candidates study the history of California from the
   pre-Columbian period to the present. In this study of California
   history, they apply higher level thinking skills. These skills include,
   but are not limited to, the ability to analyze, interpret, compare and
   contrast, and synthesize significant historical issues in both written
   and oral presentation. Candidates utilize appropriate research skills
   and primary and secondary sources. They engage in historiographic
   thinking, and are aware of multiple historical and geographic
   perspectives. Candidates appreciate the fundamental role geography
   plays in historical inquiry, and they understand and are able to apply
   the principles of political science and economics to historical
   analysis of California history. Candidates understand the relationship
   between California and U.S. history while also recognizing the
   political, social, economic, and geographic conditions that make
   California unique. 3.1 Pre-Columbian Period Through the End of Mexican
   Rule Candidates describe analyze the relationship between California's
   physical geography and its history from the pre-Columbian period
   through the end of Mexican rule. Candidates: a. Describe the geography,
   economic life, and culture of California's American Indian peoples, as
   well as their relationship with the environment. b. Define and assess
   the impact of Spanish exploration and colonization, including the
   establishment of the mission system, ranchos, and pueblos, and their
   influences on the development of the agricultural economy of early
   California. c. Describe the relationship between long-term Spanish
   settlement of California and the availability of natural resources
   (e.g., soil, water, landforms). d. Analyze Mexican rule in California
   and compare and contrast it to U.S. rule. e. Describe the causes of the
   Mexican-American War and assess its impact on California. 3.2 From the
   Gold Rush Through the Progressive Era Candidates describe and analyze
   the history of California from the Gold Rush through the Progressive
   Era of reform in the early 20th century. Candidates: a. Describe the
   discovery of gold and assess its consequences on the culture, society,
   politics, and economy of California, including its impact on California
   Indians and Californios. Social Science, Part I 8 b. Describe the
   international migration to California in the 19th century, the social,
   economic, and political responses to this migration, and the
   contributions of immigrants to the development of California. c.
   Analyze the political, social, and geographic changes in the California
   economy in the 19th and early 20th centuries, including its
   international connections. d. Analyze key principles in California's
   constitutional and political development (including the Progressive Era
   reforms of initiative, referendum, and recall), and compare and
   contrast the California and U.S. Constitutions. e. Analyze the
   progressive movement in California, and compare and contrast it to the
   national progressive movement. 3.3 From the Progressive Era to the
   Present Candidates analyze the history of California from the
   Progressive Era to the present. Candidates: a. Describe 20th century
   migration to California from the rest of the U.S. and the world, and
   analyze its impact on the cultural, economic, social, and political
   evolution of the state. b. Analyze the effects of changing state and
   federal law on immigrants in California. c. Identify the changing
   location and explain the development of California's major economic
   enterprises and labor resources (e.g., mining and other extractive
   industries, agriculture, entertainment, recreation, aerospace and
   defense, technology, international trade) and their impact on the rest
   of the world. d. Describe and analyze the social, economic, political,
   and geographic factors contributing to the development of Southern
   California as a distinct region in the 20th century. e. Trace the
   history and development of California's public education system,
   including its universities and community colleges, and its social,
   political, and economic effects on the state. f. Identify major
   environmental issues in California history and their economic, social,
   and political implications (i.e., water supply and delivery,
   air/water/soil quality, transportation, energy). g. Describe
   California's economic, cultural, and political influence on the rest of
   the U.S. and the World. Domain 4. Principles of American Democracy
   Candidates study the principles of American democracy and analyze how
   those principles are put into practice in American politics and
   government. In their study of American democratic principles and
   practices, they apply higher level thinking skills. These skills
   include the ability to analyze the effect of governmental structures,
   economic conditions, and social forces on the distribution and use of
   power. These skills also include the ability to articulate and defend
   basic values and principles of democratic government. Candidates
   utilize appropriate research skills and primary and secondary sources.
   The study of social science must move beyond rote memorization.
   Therefore, candidates understand and are able to apply the principles
   and methodologies of political science, economics, and Social Science,
   Part I 9 geography to the study of American democracy. Candidates
   recognize that knowledge and understanding of the social sciences are
   intrinsic to political analysis. 4.1 Principles of American Democracy
   Candidates explain and analyze the fundamental principles and moral
   values of American democracy as expressed in the U.S. Constitution and
   other essential documents. Candidates: a. Analyze the influence of
   ancient Greek, and Roman, and European political thinkers and the
   pre-Revolutionary colonial and indigenous peoples' experience on the
   development of the American government, and consider the historical
   contexts in which democratic theories emerged. b. Explain and analyze
   the principles of the Declaration of Independence and how the U.S.
   Constitution reflects a balance between classical republican and
   classical liberal thinking. c. Evaluate the Founding Fathers'
   contribution to the establishment of a constitutional system as
   articulated in the Federalist Papers, constitutional debates, and the
   U.S. Constitution. d. Describe the significance of the Bill of Rights
   and the 14th Amendment as limits on government in the American
   constitutional process, as compared to English Common Law. e. Describe
   the nature and importance of law in U.S. political theory, including
   the democratic procedures of law making, the rule of law and abiding by
   the law, and the role of civil disobedience. f. Analyze the
   significance and evolving meaning of the principles of American
   democracy: autonomy/liberty, equality, basic opportunity, debate and
   deliberation, and representation. 4.2 Rights and Obligations of
   Citizenship Candidates evaluate the scope and limits of rights and
   obligations of democratic citizens. Candidates: a. Describe and analyze
   the dilemmas of dual democratic principles of individualism and
   equality versus rights and responsibility. b. Describe the meaning and
   importance of each of the rights guaranteed in the Bill of Rights and
   analyze the reciprocal nature of citizenship, including the obligation
   to obey the law, serve as a juror, vote, pay taxes, and pursue various
   avenues of participation open to citizens. c. Explain the basis and
   practice of acquiring American citizenship. d. Compare and contrast the
   American concept of citizenship with that of other nations. e. Compare
   and contrast the U.S. Bill of Rights to other human rights documents,
   such as the United Nations bill of rights. 4.3 Fundamental Values and
   Principles of Civil Society Candidates describe and analyze the
   fundamental values and principles of civil society. Candidates: a.
   Explain and analyze the historical role of religion, religious
   diversity, and religious discrimination and conflict in American life.
   Social Science, Part I 10 b. Analyze citizen participation in
   governmental decision-making in a large modern society and the
   challenges Americans faced historically to their political
   participation. c. Compare and contrast citizens' decision-making in
   representative versus direct democracies. d. Analyze the evolving
   practices of citizen collaboration and deliberation, and special
   interest influence in American democratic decision-making. e. Compare
   and contrast the role of the individual in democratic and authoritarian
   societies. f. Explain how civil society provides opportunities for
   individuals to promote private or public interests. g. Describe how
   citizens-individually and in groups-influence government. 4.4 The Three
   Branches of Government Candidates compare and contrast the roles and
   responsibilities of the three branches of government as established by
   the U.S. Constitution and describe how these roles and responsibilities
   have evolved throughout U.S. history. Candidates: a. Analyze Articles
   I, II, and III as they relate to the legislative, executive, and
   judicial branches of government. b. Analyze how and why the existing
   roles and practices of the three branches of government have evolved.
   c. Describe and analyze the issues that arise as a result of the checks
   and balances system. d. Explain the process by which the Constitution
   is amended. 4.5 Landmark U.S. Supreme Court Cases Candidates analyze
   landmark U.S. Supreme Court interpretations of the Constitution and the
   continuing debate about judicial restraint and judicial activism.
   Candidates: a. Analyze the changing interpretations of the Bill of
   Rights and later constitutional amendments. b. Evaluate the effects of
   the Court's interpretations of the Constitution in Marbury v. Madison,
   McCullough v. Maryland, and United States v. Nixon. c. Describe and
   analyze the controversies that have resulted over the changing
   interpretations of civil rights, including, but not limited to, those
   in Plessy v. Ferguson; Brown v. Board of Education; Miranda v. Arizona;
   Roe v. Wade; Regents of the University of California v. Bakke; Adarand
   Constructors, Inc. v. Pena; United States v. Virginia (VMI), and Bush
   v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board. 4.6 Issues Regarding Campaigns
   for National, State, and Local Elective Offices Candidates describe the
   process by which officials are elected and analyze issues regarding
   political campaigns. Candidates: a. Analyze the origin, development,
   and role of political parties. b. Describe the means by which citizens
   use to participate in the political process. c. Describe the changing
   nominating process for political candidates. Social Science, Part I 11
   d. Investigate reasons for and effects of voter apathy in local, state,
   and federal elections. e. Explain the function and evolution of the
   College of Electors and analyze its role in contemporary American
   politics. f. Describe and evaluate issues of state redistricting and
   the political nature of reapportionment. 4.7 Powers and Procedures of
   the National, State, Local and Tribal Governments Candidates compare
   the processes of law and policy-making at each of the three levels of
   government, and contrast them to each other and to tribal government.
   Candidates: a. Identify the various ways in which federal, state,
   local, and tribal governments are organized. b. Identify sources of
   revenue. c. Analyze the issues that arise out of the divisions of
   jurisdiction among federal, state, local, and tribal governments at
   each level of government; consider their impacts on those different
   levels of government. d. Analyze how public policy is formed and
   implemented, including the role of special interest groups in the
   setting of the public agenda. e. Analyze the sources of power and
   influence in democratic politics, such as access to and use of the mass
   media, money, economic interests, and the ability to mobilize groups.
   4.8 The Media in American Political Life Candidates debate positions on
   the influence of the media on American political life. Candidates: a.
   Describe the significance of a free press, including the role of the
   broadcast, print, and electronic media in American society and
   government. b. Analyze the interaction between public officials and the
   media to communicate and influence public opinion. c. Analyze the
   issues of access to mass media and government management and/or control
   of the media. 4.9 Political Systems Candidates compare and contrast the
   origins, characteristics, and development of different political
   systems. Candidates: a. Explain and analyze different political systems
   and the philosophies that underlie them, including the parliamentary
   system. b. Compare and contrast the advantages and disadvantages of
   federal, confederate and unitary systems of government. c. Identify,
   describe, and analyze examples of dictatorship, theocracies, and
   ideologically-based political systems. d. Analyze problems of new
   democracies in the 19th and 20th centuries and their internal
   struggles. 4.10 Tensions within our Constitutional Democracy Candidates
   analyze tensions within our constitutional democracy. Candidates:
   Social Science, Part I 12 a. Analyze the constitutional interpretations
   of the First Amendment's statement about the separation of church and
   state. b. Apply the analysis of the inherent tensions in democracy to
   contemporary political, social, economic, and environmental issues. c.
   Debate the adequacy of the solution of majority rule and the role of
   minority rights in a majority-rules system. d. Analyze topics unique to
   the American West (e.g., the role of water in land development, growth
   management within urbanizing areas, alternative transportation modes,
   energy). Domain 5. Principles of Economics Candidates study the
   principles of economics, both in relation to the United States economy
   and to the international economy. In their study of economics they
   apply higher level thinking skills. These skills include, but are not
   limited to, the ability to analyze, interpret, compare, contrast and
   synthesize significant issues in both written and oral presentation.
   Candidates utilize research skills and different methods of analysis,
   including the use of marginal analysis, equilibrium analysis, micro and
   macro analysis and positive and normative analysis skills. They use the
   skills of economic analysis to explain rational behavior of people and
   groups encountering experiences of everyday life in the form of tables
   and numbers, graphical analysis and single equations. Candidates
   demonstrate how solutions are derived from each form of economic
   analysis, how they are equivalent, and how they translate from one to
   another. Economic themes are intrinsic to all of the social science
   content domains. Therefore, candidates demonstrate the ability to
   explore issues that feature both theoretical and applied economics. 5.1
   Economic Terms and Concepts and Economic Reasoning Candidates explain
   the meaning of common economic terms and concepts (e.g., supply and
   demand) and use economic reasoning (e.g., the equivalence and
   convertibility of the different forms of economic analysis).
   Candidates: a. Describe the causal relationship between scarcity and
   the need for choices, and explain opportunity cost and marginal benefit
   and marginal cost. b. Identify the difference between monetary and
   non-monetary incentives and how changes in incentives cause changes in
   behavior. c. Debate the role of private property as an incentive in
   conserving and improving scarce resources, including renewable and
   nonrenewable natural resources. d. Describe and analyze the debate
   concerning the role of a market economy versus a planned economy in
   establishing and preserving political and personal liberty (e.g.,
   through the works of Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, David Ricardo, Karl
   Marx, John Maynard Keynes, Milton Friedman). 5.2 Elements of America's
   Market Economy in a Global Setting Candidates analyze the elements of
   America's market economy in a global setting. Candidates: a. Describe
   and analyze the relationship of the concepts of incentives and
   substitutes to the law of supply and demand. Social Science, Part I 13
   b. Describe and graph the effects of changes in supply and/or demand on
   the relative scarcity, price, and quantity of particular products. c.
   Explain and analyze the roles of property rights, competition, and
   profit in a market economy. d. Explain and analyze how prices reflect
   the relative scarcity of goods and services and perform the function of
   allocation in a market economy. e. Explain the process by which
   competition among buyers and sellers determines a market price. f.
   Describe the effect of price controls on buyers and sellers. g. Analyze
   how domestic and international competition in a market economy affects
   the quality, quantity, and price of goods and services produced. h.
   Explain the role of profit as the incentive to entrepreneurs in a
   market economy. i. Describe the functions of the financial markets. j.
   Use and explain how economic principles interact with historical,
   geographic, and political factors to guide the location of economic
   activity. 5.3 The Relationship between Politics and Economics
   Candidates explain and analyze the debate over the role of the
   government in the economy and the relationship between politics and
   economics. Candidates: a. Analyze the effects of federal, state, and
   local policies on the distribution of resources and economic
   decision-making. b. Describe the economic and social effects of
   government fiscal policies. c. Describe the aims and tools of monetary
   policy and its economic and social effects. d. Analyze the
   inefficiencies that result from cost spillovers (e.g., pollution) and
   benefit spillovers (e.g., education). e. Assess the tradeoff between
   efficiency and equality in modern mixed economies, using social
   policies as examples. f. Debate the appropriate economic goals of
   government in a modern mixed economy. g. Apply the principles of
   economic decision-making to a current or historical social problem in
   America (e.g., land development, resource availability, environmental
   quality, composition of the economy). 5.4 Elements of the U.S. Labor
   Market in a Global Setting Candidates describe and analyze the
   operations of the U.S. labor market. Candidates: a. Describe the
   circumstances surrounding the establishment of principal American labor
   unions, procedures that unions use to gain benefits for their members,
   and the effects of unionization, the minimum wage, and unemployment
   insurance. b. Analyze the current U.S. economy and the global labor
   market that helps support it, including the types of goods and services
   produced, the types of skills workers need, the effects of rapid
   technological change, inter- and intra-regional shifts in employment,
   and the impact of international competition. c. Analyze wage
   differences between jobs and professions, using the laws of supply and
   demand and the concept of productivity. Social Science, Part I 14 d.
   Analyze the effects of international mobility of capital, labor, and
   trade on the U.S. economy. 5.5 Aggregate Economic Behavior of the
   American Economy Candidates describe the macroeconomic forces at work
   at the level of the aggregate sectors of the economy. Candidates: a.
   Explain the national economic goals laid down in the Employment Act of
   1946 and their significance for policy. b. Describe how measures of
   economic output are adjusted using indexes. c. Describe how Gross
   Domestic Product can be defined both as total spending on output and
   income earned in production. d. Define, calculate, and analyze the
   significance of the changes in rates of unemployment, inflation, and
   growth. e. Distinguish between short- and long-term interest rates and
   explain their relative significance. 5.6 International Trade and the
   American Economy Candidates describe and analyze issues of
   international trade and explain how the U.S. economy affects, and is
   affected by, economic forces beyond the United States' borders.
   Candidates: a. Use the concept of comparative advantage to identify the
   costs of and gains from international trade. b. Compare and contrast
   the arguments for and against trade restrictions during the Great
   Depression with those among labor, business, and political leaders
   today. c. Analyze the significance of the changing role of
   international political borders and territorial sovereignty in a global
   economy (e.g., General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT), North
   American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), World Trade Organization (WTO),
   European Union (EU)). d. Explain the changing structure of the American
   economy via shifts in key trading partners and trading patterns. e.
   Describe how international currency exchange rates are determined and
   their significance. Domain 6. Principles of Geography Candidates study
   the principles of geography as they apply to their studies of history,
   political science, and economics. In their study of geography, they
   apply higher level thinking skills. These skills include, but are not
   limited to, the ability to analyze, interpret, compare and contrast,
   and synthesize information regarding the geographic character of
   landscapes, societies, and ecosystems across the earth. They know the
   five basic themes of geography as stated in the 2000 History-Social
   Science Framework: location; place; human and environmental
   interaction; movement; and regions. Candidates use basic map and globe
   skills, such as latitude/longitude, relative location,
   distance/direction, scale, legend, map projections, and distortion
   categories to describe and analyze the world from a geographic
   perspective. Social Science, Part I 15 6.1 Tools and Perspectives of
   Geographic Study Candidates use the tools, theories, and methodologies
   of geography to analyze the history and current issues of the world's
   peoples and places. Candidates: a. Describe the criteria for defining
   regions and identify why places and regions are important. b. Explain
   the nature of map projections and use maps, as well as other geographic
   representations and technologies (including remote sensing and
   geographic information systems) to acquire, process, and report
   information from a spatial perspective. c. Analyze spatial information
   about people, places, and environments, and use graphic displays best
   suited to specific forms of data. 6.2 Geographic Distribution and
   Diversity of Natural Landscapes Candidates describe and analyze the
   physical processes that shape the earth's surface, including tectonic
   and gradational processes, and recognize the relationship of these
   processes to the composition of the earth's crust. They compare and
   contrast the diversity of the earth's natural landscapes and its impact
   on human history and activities. Candidates: a. Describe the processes
   of landform and soil formation and the hydrologic cycle. b. Analyze the
   processes that create weather and climate, considering their geographic
   distribution and impact. c. Analyze how unique ecologic settings are
   encouraged by various combinations of natural and social phenomena,
   including bio-geographic relationships with climate, soil, and terrain.
   6.3 Geographic Diversity of Human Societies Candidates make inter- and
   intra-regional comparisons and analyze the geographic diversity of
   human societies, using such concepts as density, distribution, growth,
   demographic transition, culture, and place identification. Candidates:
   a. Analyze the characteristics and distribution of homogeneous and
   functional regions and the complexity of the earth's cultural mosaics.
   b. Analyze the patterns and networks of economic interdependence across
   the earth's surface during the agricultural, industrial, and
   post-industrial revolutions, including the production and processing of
   raw materials, marketing, consumption, transportation, and other
   measures of economic development. c. Describe the processes, patterns,
   and functions of human settlements from subsistence agriculture to
   industrial metropolis. d. Analyze the forces of cooperation and
   conflict among peoples and societies that influence the division and
   control of the earth's surface (e.g., boundaries and frontiers, the
   control of resources, centripetal vs. centrifugal forces, spheres of
   influence). 6.4 Culture and the Physical Environment Candidates
   describe and analyze and discuss the geographic interactions between
   human activities and the physical environment in the past and present,
   and plan for the future. Candidates: Social Science, Part I 16 a.
   Describe and analyze how humans and their cultures interact, modify,
   and influence their immediate physical environment to produce cultural
   landscapes. b. Analyze the characteristics of geographic distribution
   of ecosystems on the earth's surface, including interactions between
   terrain and climate, and cultural interactions creating unique and
   identifiable spatial units. c. Describe and analyze ways in which human
   societies and settlement patterns develop in response to the physical
   environment, and explain the social, political, economic, and physical
   processes that have resulted in today's urban and rural landscapes. d.
   Measure and analyze changes that occur in the meaning, use,
   distribution, and importance of resources. e. Recognize the
   interrelationship of environmental and social policy. Social Science,
   Part I 17
