http://www.ccs.lanl.gov/pdfs/feng_cyber_security.pdf

   Cyber-Security for Computational Grids and Virtual Supercomputers
   RADIANT: Research And Development In Advanced Network Technology
   http://www.lanl.gov/radiant With our national security coming
   Application Layer Applications / Middleware Applications / Middleware
   under increasing scrutiny, there is a heightened awareness of the
   impor- HTTP, FTP, SMTP HTTP, FTP, SMTP Kerberos Kerberos Transport
   Layer tance of securing our cyber infrastructure. To SSL / TLS SSL /
   TLS this end, we propose an inter-realm infrastruc- TCP TCP UDP UDP
   ture for security (IRIS) and active wardens to IP (IPsec) IP (IPsec)
   Network Layer proactively protect against cyberattacks. IP IP IRIS:
   Inter-Realm Infrastructure Device drivers Device drivers for Security
   Figure 1: Relative Location of Security Mechanisms in the Protocol
   Stack The rapid growth in high-speed networks and the ubiquity of
   computers have converged to cause the widespread deployment of compu-
   enhance global interconnectivity and provide tational grids involves
   using the Internet the foundation for a new kind of computing as the
   communication backbone, the cyber- infrastructure-computational grids
   (also security infrastructure must also seamlessly known as virtual
   supercomputers). These deal with the heterogeneous nature of the grids
   consist of computational nodes that are Internet. distributed
   throughout geographically dis- Background persed areas and institutions
   and are inter- Many security mechanisms have been de- connected through
   a reliable internetwork; vised to retrofit security into the Internet
   and they harvest significant processing power, existing distributed
   systems. While Kerberos, memory, and resources by utilizing the capa-
   SSL, IPsec, and other similar technologies bilities offered at the end
   nodes. provide security services at various places in Securing a
   computational grid (that may be the protocol stack, as shown in the
   shaded accessed by tens, hundreds, or even thou- boxes of Figure 1,
   many of these security sands of users) will be critical to its future.
   To services only offer security as an "all-or- address this issue, we
   present a cyber-secu- nothing" option. Another common problem, rity
   infrastructure called IRIS: Inter-Realm particularly in the use of SSL
   and IPsec Infrastructure for Security that provides highly tunneling
   over different realms, is the introduc- customizable and dynamically
   reconfigurable tion of security gaps. services to proactively secure
   communica- While the current standard in grid security, the tions
   between these grid nodes.* And be- Grid Security Infrastructure (GSI),
   provides secure authentication and communication for *Realms are areas
   with similar network characteristics e.g., a grids, it does not
   discover middleboxes and campus network. To handle this diversity
   between realms, negotiate security with them. As a result, middleboxes
   are introduced at the realm boundaries for mobility support, network
   address translation, packet filtering, security gaps could surface,
   particularly in firewalls, wireless gateways, etc. cases where some
   grid resources and nodes Active Wardens exist in a local network behind
   a firewall. In Research in the area of steganography, as addition, the
   adaptability of GSI may be lim- well as the state of the art for
   security sys- ited because of the difficulty in porting it to tems, is
   dominated by a reactive paradigm of lightweight devices (e.g., PDAs) in
   support of detection and response. However, by the time ubiquitous grid
   computing. this reaction occurs, substantial damage may The Vision have
   already occurred. To proactively stifle We advocate a cyber-security
   infrastructure steganography, covert channels, and other that
   incorporates greater flexibility, adaptabil- network attacks, the
   RADIANT team is devel- ity, and customizability. When it comes to oping
   "active warden" security systems. Using security, one size does not fit
   all. Hence, the our model, all network traffic is routed through
   security architecture deployed must be able to active wardens, which
   modify communica- adapt to environments with varying conditions. tions
   as to preserve overt communications, Further, with many different
   security technolo- yet prevent the propagation of extraneous or gies
   surfacing and being deployed, the as- ambiguous information that can be
   used for sumption that a particular security mechanism exploitation,
   such as covert channels, sublimi- will eventually prevail is flawed.
   For that rea- nal channels, and certain forms of intrusion son, it is
   necessary to support multiple secu- detection and intrusion detection
   evasion. This rity mechanisms and negotiate security re- is done by
   perturbing possible carriers to the quirements. We also aim to reduce
   or elimi- level of their "Minimal Requisite Fidelity" nate security
   gaps. (MRF), which represents the degree of signal fidelity that is
   both acceptable to end users To this end, we have implemented a
   prototype but destructive to covert channels. For a class of the
   aforementioned cyber-security infra- of "unstructured" carriers, MRF is
   defined by structure called IRIS: Inter-Realm Infrastruc- human
   perception, but for a class of "struc- ture for Security. Our current
   implementation tured" carriers, well-known semantics give us is in
   Java. We used Java for its cross-platform high assurance that a warden
   can completely compatibility, which allows IRIS to be ported eliminate
   any subliminal or covert channels. easily to the heterogeneous nodes
   that consti- tute a computational grid. Additionally, Java is For
   future information on IRIS, please visit our gaining ground in the
   mobile world allowing team Web site at http://www.lanl.gov/radiant.
   IRIS to be ported to mobile devices, handheld computers and embedded
   devices in support of ubiquitous grid computing. Contact Information
   Send e-mail to: radiant-info@lanl.gov. RADIANT: Research And
   Development in Advanced Network Technology
   (http://www.lanl.gov/radiant) Los Alamos National Laboratory Los
   Alamos, NM 87545 Los Alamos National Laboratory, an affirmative
   action/equal opportunity employer, is operated by the University of
   California for the United States Department of Energy under contract
   W-7405-ENG-36. November 2001 LALP-01-244 A US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
   LABORATORY
