http://www.sao.wa.gov/Whistleblower/AbouttheProgram/WBProgram.htm

                   Washington State Whistleblower Program

                               Horizontal Line

                          Updated January 16, 2002

            To view this page in Adobe Acrobat format, click here

     Summary of Provisions and Protections
     Questions and Answers About the Whistleblower Program
     Whistleblower Investigation Reports
     Whistleblower Statistics
     Whistleblower Reporting Form

                            State Auditors Office
                    Summary of Provisions and Protections
                              Chapter 42.40 RCW
                     The State Employee Whistleblower Act

     The Whistleblower Act, enacted by the Washington State Legislature
     in 1982 and significantly amended by Chapter 361 Laws of 1999,
     provides an avenue for state employees to report suspected improper
     governmental activity. The Act does not authorize the State
     Auditor's Office to investigate personnel actions for which other
     remedies exist, such as employee grievances.

     Any Washington state employee may report a suspected improper
     governmental action through the Whistleblower Program. This includes
     temporary employees, classified and exempt civil service employees
     and elected officials. The Act does not cover employees of state
     contractors.

     Under the 1999 legislation, the asserted improper activity(ies) must
     have occurred within one year of the filing of the assertion(s).

   How To File A Report Of Improper Governmental Activity

   Improper governmental activity is defined as any action by an employee
   undertaken in the performance of the employees official duties which:

     * Results in mismanagement or gross waste of public funds or
       resources.
     * Is in violation of federal or state law or rule, if the violation
       is not merely technical or of a minimum nature.
     * Is of substantial and specific danger to the public health or
       safety.

   Assertions of improper governmental activity must be filed in writing
   with the State Auditor's Office. They can be reported using the
   Whistleblower Reporting Form, attached to this summary, or in a
   separate letter. In either case, the report should include:
     * A detailed description of the improper governmental action(s).
     * The name of the employee(s) involved.
     * The agency, division, date and location where the action(s)
       occurred.
     * Details that may be important for our investigation -- witnesses,
       documents and evidence.
     * If you know it, the specific law or regulation that has been
       violated.
     * Your name, home address and phone number.

   Each assertions(s) should be noted separately and supported with as
   much specific information as possible. Supplying detailed information
   contributes to a thorough and efficient investigation. The
   Whistleblower Reporting Form is designed to help you supply the needed
   information.

   Assertions of improper governmental activity may be filed anonymously.
   However, including your name and number enables us to contact you to
   gather information that may be necessary for a thorough investigation.

   Under state law, anyone who conducts a state employee whistleblower
   investigation must keep the whistleblower's name confidential. In
   addition, the law provides remedies for individuals subjected to
   retaliation as a result of their whistleblower activities and penalties
   for those who retaliate.

   Send your Whistleblower Reporting Form or letter to:

     State Auditor's Office
     Attention: ED
     PO Box 40021
     Olympia, WA 98504-0021

   If you wish to file assertions regarding the State Auditor's Office,
   please contact:

     Rich Heath
     Assistant Attorney General
     State Attorney General's Office
     PO Box 40100
     Olympia, WA 98504-0100
     (360) 753-2578

   The Investigative Process

   Whistleblower investigations are conducted independently, objectively
   and thoroughly. It is the goal of the State Auditors Office to treat
   all parties to the investigation, the state agency, the whistleblower
   and the subject, respectfully and fairly. Further, it is the goal of
   the State Auditors Office to conduct all whistleblower investigations
   as timely as possible. On average, we try to have whistleblower reports
   issued to the public within 90 days and must have them completed within
   one year of receipt of the assertion or assertions.

   The identity of the whistleblower is confidential throughout the
   investigative process whether State Auditors Office investigators or
   others perform the investigation. Further, confidentiality is
   maintained even after the final report is issued. All working papers
   and final reports are redacted in responding to all public record
   requests to maintain that confidentiality.

   The State Auditor is authorized to determine whether to investigate any
   assertions received.

   Rights and Obligations

   Under the Act, the whistleblower, the subject of the assertion, the
   agency head and the State Auditor's Office have rights and obligations.
   They are:

   State Auditor's Office:
   The State Auditor has a right to receive and investigate disclosures of
     improper governmental action. The Office analyzes and investigates
   assertions independently, objectively and thoroughly through interviews
   and by reviewing relevant documents. We maintain the confidentiality of
    the whistleblower and of witnesses who provide information during the
   course of the investigation. The Office dedicates adequate resources to
   investigate assertion(s) within the time frames spelled out in the law.
    Also within those time frames, the Office communicates the nature of
   the assertions and how they are being investigated with the subject of
    the assertion(s), the whistleblower and the agency head or designee.
     The Office documents each stage of the investigation in our working
      papers. The Office bases its reports on the conclusions in those
    working papers, and reports the results of investigations in a clear
   and understandable fashion. The Office refers cases to the appropriate
     ethics boards when we find reasonable cause to believe the code has
     been violated. The Office follows up on corrective action until the
         agency has taken appropriate action to resolve the matter.

   Whistleblower:
   The whistleblower must file the assertions in good faith. Good faith is
   defined as a reasonable basis in fact for the assertion. Good faith is
    lacking when the employee knows or reasonably ought to know that the
    assertion is malicious, false or frivolous. Therefore, whistleblowers
     must make a reasonable attempt to determine the correctness of the
   information they furnish our Office. The whistleblower (if named) will
   be notified that we have received the assertion(s) and will be updated
    on the status of the case during the 30-day preliminary investigation
     and during the 60-day full investigation, if one is conducted. The
      whistleblower has a right to confidentiality and protection from
   retaliation. The whistleblower, agency head and the subject or subjects
   are notified at least annually of the status of corrective action until
    the State Auditor concludes that appropriate action has been taken by
                                 the agency.

   Subject of assertion(s):
   Within the 30-day preliminary investigation, the subject has the right
   to be notified of the nature of each assertion, relevant facts known at
      the time and our intended course of action. Each subject shall be
   interviewed during the investigation. The same rights apply during the
    60-day full investigation, if one is conducted. If we find reasonable
      cause to believe there has been improper governmental action, the
    subject will be given 15 working days to respond to the draft report.
     The subject's response, or portions of it, may be included with the
                        final report, if appropriate.

   Agency director (or designee):
     Within the 30-day preliminary investigation, the agency director or
   designee has the right to be notified of the nature of each assertion,
   relevant facts known at the time and our intended course of action. The
    agency director or designee must cooperate with the investigator and
    must preserve evidence in the case. The director or designee has the
    right to provide information relevant to the investigation. The same
    rights apply during a 60-day full investigation, if one is conducted.
       If we find reasonable cause to believe there has been improper
    governmental action, the agency director or designee will be given 15
    working days to respond to the draft report. The agency response and
   plan for resolution, or portions thereof, will be included in the final
      report. The agency director or designee is responsible for taking
     corrective action when we find reasonable cause to believe improper
                     governmental activity has occurred.

   Protection from Retaliation

   The law requires that whistleblower identities be kept confidential. It
   makes retaliation unlawful and provides remedies for retaliation.
   Reports of asserted retaliation are filed with the Washington State
   Human Rights Commission. The commission will investigate the claim and
   take appropriate action. Civil penalties for retaliation may include a
   fine of up to $3,000 and suspension for 30 days without pay.


    For more information on the state Whistleblower Program, please call
    Jim Brittain at (360) 902-0372 or Dell Cowart at (360) 902-0369.

   Protection of Whistleblowers Under the Law Against Discrimination

   For more information on the protection of Whistleblowers, go to the
   link below.

   http://mrsc-web.mrsc.org/personnel/wb-retaliation.htm

   Questions and Answers About the Whistleblower Program

   Q: What is the state Whistleblower Program?

   The State Employee Whistleblower program was created by the 1982
   Legislature to encourage state employees to report assertions of
   improper governmental activity. The law makes retaliation against
   whistleblowers unlawful and authorizes remedies should it occur. The
   State Auditor's Office investigates and reports on disclosures of
   improper governmental activity and the Human Rights Commission has sole
   responsibility for investigating asserted retaliatory actions. The
   authorizing legislation for the program was amended in 1999 (Chapters
   118 and 361, Laws of 1999).

   Q: What are the primary provisions of the 1999 amendments to the law

     * A one-year statute of limitations. The asserted action must have
       occurred within a year of when it is reported. Timeliness is
       critical to gathering evidence, stopping improper governmental
       action and in holding public employees and officials accountable.
     * The Auditor's Office has the sole discretion to determine how, or
       if, whistleblower assertions will be investigated. When making this
       determination, the following factors must be considered:
          + Correctness of information furnished.
          + The nature and quality of evidence and the existence of
            relevant laws and rules.
          + Whether the action was isolated or systemic.
          + The history of previous assertions regarding the same subject
            or subject matter.
          + Whether other avenues are available for addressing the matter.
          + Whether the matter has already been investigated or is in
            litigation.
          + The degree or significance of the asserted improper
            governmental action.
          + The cost and benefit of the investigation.
     * Improvements in due process for all parties to the investigation.
       The measure requires our Office to communicate with the
       whistleblower, agency head and subject of the investigation at
       various stages of the process. All parties will be given an
       opportunity to respond to the draft report.
     * Our Office must obtain the consent of an agency prior to referring
       whistleblower cases for investigation.
     * A panel, including a citizen, will review and recommend whether to
       proceed with further investigation of anonymous assertions.

   Q: What is improper governmental activity?

   The law defines improper governmental activity as any action by an
   employee undertaken in the performance of the employees official duties
   which:

     * Results in mismanagement or gross waste of public funds or
       resources.
     * Is in violation of a federal or state law or rule, if the violation
       is not merely technical or of a minimum nature.
     * Is of substantial and specific danger to the public health or
       safety.

   Q: What precludes an employee from making a frivolous or false
   disclosure of improper governmental activity?

   Whistleblowers must file disclosures in good faith. The law defines
   good faith as a reasonable basis in fact for the communication. Good
   faith is lacking when the employee knows or reasonably ought to know
   that the report is malicious, false or frivolous. The law states that
   the identity of the whistleblower shall be kept confidential unless the
   auditor determines that the information has been provided other than in
   good faith.

   Q: Who can report improper governmental actions?

   Any Washington state employee may report suspected improper
   governmental actions through the Whistleblower Program. This includes
   temporary employees, classified and exempt civil service employees, and
   elected officials in all branches of state government. There is a
   separate program for local government employees, which is authorized
   under Chapter 42.41 RCW. The state does not administer that program.

   Q: Can employees of contractors with the state file a whistleblower
   disclosure?

   No. Contractors and their employees are not covered by the State
   Employee Whistleblower Act. However, employees of contractors may
   report concerns about the handling of public funds to the State
   Auditor. These concerns can be addressed as part of the Office's audit
   process.

   Q: Can whistleblower disclosures be filed regarding only employees in
   the whistleblower's own agency?

   No. Any state employee may file a whistleblower disclosure relating to
   any state agency.

   Q: How do I file a whistleblower disclosure?

   Assertions of improper government activity are filed in writing with
   the State Auditor's Office. They are generally reported using the
   Whistleblower Reporting Form attached to this document. They also may
   be reported in a separate letter. In either case, the report should
   include the following:

     * A detailed description of the improper governmental action(s);
     * The name of the employee(s) involved;
     * The agency, division and location where the action(s) occurred;
     * When the action(s) occurred;
     * Any other details that may be important for our investigation such
       as other witnesses, documents, evidence, etc.;
     * The specific state law or regulation that has been violated, if you
       know it;
     * Your name, address and phone number.

   Avoid generalizations such as "Bob is always wasting public resources."
   Providing specific details about how and when "Bob" is wasting public
   resources will help focus the investigation, e.g., "Bob used his state
   computer to keep accounting records for his home business during
   working hours. This has been going on for a year."

   Each assertion should be noted separately and supported with as much
   specific information as possible. Proving allegations can often be
   difficult. Supplying detailed information contributes to a thorough and
   efficient investigation. The Whistleblower Reporting Form is designed
   to assist you in supplying the needed information. Please use a
   separate Whistleblower Reporting Form for each assertion of improper
   governmental activity.

   Q: Where should Whistleblower Reporting Forms be submitted?

   Mail your completed Whistleblower Reporting Form to:

     State Auditor's Office
     Attention: ED
     PO Box 40021
     Olympia, WA 98504-0021

   People wishing to file whistleblower disclosures regarding the State
   Auditor's Office may do so with the State Attorney General's Office:

     Assistant Attorney General Rich Heath
     P.O. Box 40100
     Olympia, WA 98504-0100
     (360) 753-2578

   Please mark any whistleblower correspondence "Confidential".

   Q: Can a supervisor prohibit an employee from filing a report of
   improper governmental activity with the State Auditor?

   No. RCW Chapter 42.40.030 specifically prohibits direct or indirect
   interference with the filing of a whistleblower disclosure. It applies
   to all state employees. This statute also prohibits attempts at
   interfering with an employee providing information to the auditor
   during an investigation.

   Q: Does a whistleblower have to sign his or her name?

   Assertions of improper governmental action may be filed anonymously.
   Anonymous assertions will be reviewed by a panel to determine whether
   they will be investigated. The panel includes a state auditor
   representative knowledgeable of the subject agency operation, a citizen
   volunteer and a representative of the Attorney General's Office.

   Including your name and number enables us to contact you to gather
   information that may be necessary for a thorough investigation. In many
   investigations this can be important. Under state law, anyone who
   conducts a state employee whistleblower investigation must keep the
   whistleblower's name confidential. In addition, the law provides
   remedies for individuals subjected to retaliation as a result of their
   whistleblower disclosure. A whistleblower is defined as anyone who
   provides information during the course of a whistleblower
   investigation.

   Q: Who has protection under the Whistleblower Program?

   Any state employee who provides information during a whistleblower
   investigation is provided the same protection as the whistleblower
   filing the disclosure with the State Auditor. The law also protects any
   employee who others believe filed a whistleblower report or provided
   information, but actually didn't.

   Q: What happens if a whistleblower believes he or she is being
   subjected to workplace reprisal or retaliation?

   The Whistleblower Program provides protections and remedies for
   retaliation. If you feel you are being retaliated against as a result
   of filing a disclosure, you may file a claim with the State Human
   Rights Commission. You also may wish to contact a private attorney for
   legal advice. A retaliatory action is any adverse change that affects
   your employment. Retaliation can take many forms, such as frequent job
   changes, office changes, unwarranted letters of reprimand or
   unsatisfactory performance evaluations. The Commission will investigate
   the claim and take appropriate action. It has the following toll-free
   numbers.

     * Olympia 1-800-233-3247
     * Eastern Washington 1-800-662-2755
     * Seattle 1-800-605-7324
     * TTY 1-800-300-7525

   Q: What are the provisions of the whistleblower retaliation law passed
   by the Legislature in 1999?

   The 1999 Legislature significantly enhanced protection of
   whistleblowers under the law against discrimination. Under the new law,
   any whistleblower subjected to workplace reprisal or retaliatory action
   is presumed to have established a cause of action for remedies
   administered by the Human Rights Commission. Reprisal or retaliatory
   action includes any one of 13 situations, including demotion, denial of
   employment, a coworker behaving in a hostile manner toward the
   whistleblower or a change in physical location of the whistleblower's
   workplace. The whistleblower's agency is authorized under the new law
   to rebut the presumption. The agency must prove with a preponderance of
   evidence that the action is independent of the employee's status as a
   whistleblower. The Human Rights Commission has more information on its
   process, including a one-page summary included with this packet.

   Q: What happens if the Human Rights Commission determines that
   retaliation has occurred?

   The Human Rights Commission may impose a civil penalty on the
   retaliator of up to $3,000 and the retaliator may be suspended from
   work for up to 30 days without pay. At a minimum, a letter of reprimand
   is placed in the retaliator's personnel file.

   Q: Can the State Auditor investigate assertions involving personnel
   actions?

   The Whistleblower Act specifically excludes personnel actions for which
   other remedies exist from investigation by this office. These types of
   actions include, but are not limited to, employee grievances,
   complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments,
   reassignments, reinstatements, performance evaluations, reductions in
   pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, violations of state civil
   service laws, labor agreement violations, reprimands or other
   disciplinary actions. While the Auditor's Office cannot investigate
   these types of assertions, there are other avenues for addressing them.
   The Office can, and will, look at systemic personnel issues or those
   where other remedies do not exist.

   Q: Which government agencies or other organizations can assist in
   addressing personnel issues?

   The following government agencies and labor organizations may assist
   state employees in dealing with personnel issues:


   Agency Issues
   Washington State Personnel Appeals Board
   Olympia (360) 586-1481 Disciplinary actions. Layoffs. Violations of
   merit system rules. Violations of state civil service laws.
   Washington State Human Rights Commission
   Olympia 1-800-223-3247
   Eastern Wash 1-800-662-2755
   Seattle 1-800-729-4960
   TTY 1-800-300-7572

   Discrimination because of race, creed, color, national origin, sex,
   marital status, age or disability.

   Sexual harassment.

   Whistleblower workplace reprisal or retaliatory action.
   Public Employment Relations Commission
   Olympia (360) 753-3444

   Unfair labor practices. Interference with rights to form or join
   employee labor organizations and rights to bargain collectively.
   Washington Federation of State Employees
   Olympia (360) 352-7603

   See grievance procedures in your union bargaining agreement.
   Washington Public Employees Association
   Olympia (360) 943-1121 See grievance procedures in your union
   bargaining agreement.

   Q: How does the whistleblower process work?

   Whistleblower investigations are conducted independently, objectively
   and thoroughly. It is the goal of the State Auditors Office to treat
   all parties to the investigation - the state agency, the whistleblower
   and the subject fairly and with respect. Further, it is the goal of the
   State Auditors Office to conduct all whistleblower investigations as
   timely as possible. On average we try to have whistleblower reports
   issued to the public within 90 days and must have them completed within
   one year of receipt of the assertion or assertions.

   A whistleblower investigation involves a five-step process. The
   identity of the whistleblower is confidential throughout the
   investigative process whether State Auditors Office investigators or
   others perform the investigation. Further, confidentiality is
   maintained even after the final report is issued. All working papers
   and final reports are redacted in responding to all public record
   requests to maintain that confidentiality.

   The State Auditor is authorized to determine whether to investigate any
   assertions received.

   Intake (5 Working Days)

     * Analyze the assertion
     * Determine whether the assertion appears to meet the definition of
       being an improper governmental action
     * Evaluate the assertion taking into account the following factors:
          + Correctness of information furnished
          + Nature and quality of evidence
          + Existence of relevant laws and rules
          + Whether the action appears to be isolated or systemic
          + History of previous assertions regarding the same subject or
            subject matter
          + Whether other avenues are available for addressing the matter
          + Whether the matter has already been investigated or is in
            litigation
          + Seriousness or significance of the asserted improper
            governmental action
          + Cost and benefit of potential investigation
     * Document intake analysis and establish planned course of action
     * Acknowledge in writing to whistleblower receipt of the disclosure,
       the results of our intake analysis and any planned course of
       action, including whether a preliminary investigation will be
       conducted.

   Preliminary Investigation (30 Working Days From Receipt of Assertion or
   Assertions)

     * Establish and document preliminary investigation strategy and plan
     * Provide written notification as soon as practicable, but within 30
       days, of the nature of the assertions to the agency head and
       subject, including:
          + The relevant facts and laws known at the time
          + Procedure for the subject and agency head to respond to the
            assertions and information obtained during the investigation
     * Interview agency head or designee, whistleblower and subject
     * Determine what other evidence needs to be gathered and how it needs
       to be obtained
     * Determine who will conduct the preliminary investigation, which can
       include any one or more of the following:
          + State Auditors Office investigators
          + State agency investigators (whistleblower agency, regulatory
            agencies, enforcement agencies, etc.)
          + Washington State Patrol
          + Contracted resources
          + Information technology specialists

     *Note: Agencies must give consent to a referral, and agree to abide
     by all aspects of the Whistleblower Act, including confidentiality
     and working paper standards.

     * Document reasons for making any referrals
     * Complete preliminary investigation field work
     * Document preliminary investigation of each assertion, including:
     * Each assertion statement
     * Relevant laws or rules
     * Analysis of results of preliminary investigation
     * Planned course of action, including no further investigation or
       that a full investigation will be conducted
     * Have three-person panel screen preliminary investigation of
       anonymous assertions if a decision is reached that a full
       investigation should be pursued
     * Exit with agency director, subject and whistleblower, providing an
       opportunity for review and input to the scope, methodology and
       conclusions
     * If further investigation is to occur, provide written notification
       to the whistleblower, subject and agency head on or before 30 days
       from receipt of the assertion or assertions, including:
          + Relevant facts known at the time
          + Procedure to respond to the assertions and information
            obtained during the investigation
     * Schedule full investigation and/or pursue other planned courses of
       action

   Full Investigation (60 Days from Receipt of Assertion or Assertions)

     * Establish and document full investigation strategy and plan
     * Establish deadlines, working to complete investigation within 60
       days
     * Provide written justification to the whistleblower, agency head and
       subject for any investigation that needs to extend beyond 60 days
     * Determine what evidence needs to be gathered and how it needs to be
       gathered
     * Determine who will conduct the investigation, which can include any
       one or more of the following:
          + State Auditors Office investigators
          + State agency investigators (whistleblower agency, regulatory
            agencies, enforcement agencies, etc.)
          + Washington State Patrol
          + Contracted resources
          + Information technology specialists

     *Note: Agencies must give consent to a referral, and agree to abide
     by all aspects of the Whistleblower Act, including confidentiality
     and working paper standards.

     * Secure and analyze evidence, including interviews of subject,
       whistleblower and agency director or designee
     * Evaluate whether sufficient evidence supports reasonable cause that
       improper governmental action has occurred or not
     * Complete investigation documentation
     * Draft report and request for corrective action, if needed

   Draft Report and Corrective Action Plan (If Needed)

     * Have legal counsel review all assertions where a reasonable cause
       determination has been made
     * Exit with agency director, subject and whistleblower, providing an
       opportunity for review and input to the scope, methodology and
       conclusions
     * Provide the subject and agency head 15 working days to respond to
       the assertions prior to the issuance of the final report
     * If needed, solicit corrective action plan from agency director

   Final Report

     * Issue final whistleblower report, incorporating responses and
       corrective action plan, if needed, from the agency director and
       subject
     * Post whistleblower report on State Auditors Office home page
     * Make investigative working papers and whistleblower report
       available for public records requests as needed
     * Make enforcement referrals as needed

   Q: What do I do after filing a whistleblower disclosure?

   We recommend that whistleblowers not discuss disclosures with others,
   including family, friends and co-workers. Discussion of your
   whistleblower disclosure may jeopardize your confidentiality and could
   hamper the investigation.

   Q: Why is such a program important?

   Because this office is dedicated to ensuring accountability for public
   funds, we see the whistleblower program as one more method of achieving
   this goal. Public employees have an obligation to ensure that
   government in general, and their departments in particular, prevent
   improper governmental activity. The Whistleblower Program holds state
   employees accountable for their actions.

   Q: What are some examples of whistleblower disclosures where there has
   been reasonable cause to believe that improper governmental activity
   has occurred?

     * A state employee spent 338 hours using her state computer and other
       state equipment to engage in Internet chat room activities during
       work time at a cost to taxpayers of about $8,850.
     * A counselor physically and mentally abused children and staff at a
       state mental institution.
     * An employee was drinking while using explosives and while operating
       a state vehicle.
     * Workers at a state-operated group home were not properly
       controlling drugs. In one instance, a patient was given medication
       intended for another patient.
     * A nonprofit contractor triple billed the state for services
       rendered and also billed the state for unallowable costs. This case
       caused the Legislature to authorize the Task Force on Agency Vendor
       Contracting.

   Q: What are the statistics for the Whistleblower Program?

                                      FY

                           Assertions Investigated

                       Reasonable Cause Determinations

                     Reasonable Cause Determination Rate

                            Enforcement Referrals

                                    1998

                                     268

                                     91

                                     34%

                                     64

                                    1999

                                     205

                                     62

                                     30%

                                     41

   During fiscal year 1999 the State Auditor's Office received 205
   assertions of improper governmental action. Of the total, we found
   reasonable cause to believe that improper governmental activity had
   occurred in 62 assertions, or 30 percent. Forty-one cases were referred
   to other agencies, such as the Executive Ethics Board, for follow-up
   action.

   The downward trend in assertions has been evident over the past several
   years. We hope that trend continues and commend state agencies for
   taking actions that preclude improper governmental activity from
   occurring.

   Q: Who receives the results of a whistleblower report? Are they made
   available to the public?

   Unless the assertions were filed anonymously, the whistleblower
   receives a copy of the final report. People named in the assertions and
   agency officials also receive copies. The final report is a public
   record and is available to anyone who requests it. When appropriate, we
   distribute reports to agencies charged with enforcement. These agencies
   include county prosecutors, the state Attorney General's Office, the
   state Executive Ethics Board, the state Legislative Ethics Board, the
   state Office of Financial Management and others. The final reports also
   are available on our home page http://www.sao.wa.gov.

   Q: What about suggestions on how agencies could be saving money? Should
   they be filed under the Whistleblower Program?

   No. Cost saving ideas should be submitted to the Brainstorm Suggestion
   Program, which is administered by the Productivity Board within the
   Secretary of State's Office, (360) 753-3174. Cost saving ideas can
   result in monetary awards.

   Q: Can local government employees file whistleblower disclosures with
   the State Auditor's Office?

   Under certain circumstances a whistleblower can report assertions
   involving local government to the State Auditor's Office. The Local
   Government Whistleblower Act, Chapter 42.41 RCW, requires each local
   government to have a policy in place that establishes an appropriate
   person to receive and investigate reports of improper governmental
   action. If the local government has failed to follow state law by not
   establishing a whistleblower policy, the whistleblower can submit a
   report to the county prosecutor's office. If the local government
   hasn't established a policy, and if an employee of the county
   prosecutor's office is named as the subject of the assertions of
   improper governmental action, then the whistleblower may file a report
   with the State Auditor's Office.

   Q: Do any other agencies participate in the investigations?

   If the assertions are criminal in nature, we may ask the Washington
   State Patrol to conduct the investigation. Other agencies may be asked
   for assistance depending on the assertion. For example, we request
   assistance from the State Archivist in cases involving public records.
   Any agency taking part in a whistleblower investigation is required to
   abide by confidentiality and documentation requirements.

   Q: If I have a question about the Whistleblower Program or a particular
   situation, how can I get technical assistance?

   Between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday you can call the
   State Auditor's Office and receive technical assistance.

     * Dell Cowart (360) 902-0369
     * Jim Brittain (360) 902-0372

                                 Top of Page
