http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/tass0518.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

           Russia FM arrives in Wash for talks with US leadership

                                    TASS

   May 18, 2001

   BYLINE: By Dmitry Gorokhov and Ivan Lebedev
   Special CorrespondentsRussian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov arrived here
   on Friday morning and is to meet with US President George W. Bush and
   his national security adviser Condoleezza Rice later in the day.
   Main attention durign the meeting is expected to be devoted to
   preparations for a Russian-US summit. Vladimir Putin and George W. Bush
   intend to meet in Genoa in July during a Group of Eight summit, or ,
   their work schedules permitting, even earlier than that -- in Europe
   next month.
   Strategic stability probnlems, including START and ABM, will occupy a
   special place on Ivanov's agenda. He is to discuss these issues with US
   Secretary of State Colin Powell at a working luncheon and then at talks
   in a broader format with the participation of the two countries'
   experts.
   At the close of the talks, Ivanov and Powell are to give a news
   conference at the State Department. Besides, the Russian Minister is to
   meet on Capitol Hill with Trent Lott, Senate Republican Majority
   Leader, and Representative Christopher Cox, who heads a working group
   on Russia to the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
