http://www.ftpeck.ihs.gov/faciliti.asp

   Indian Health Service Logo: takes you to the Home Page
   Indian Health Service: The Federal Health Program for American Indians
   and Alaska Natives
   Search Our Site For:
   ____________  Enter Your Search Text
        HOME    ABOUT  I H S   SITE MAP     HELP

                                 Facilities

   IHS-POPLAR.jpg (46475 bytes) ihs-wp.jpg (40774 bytes)

    Verne E. Gibbs Health Center - Poplar                        Chief
   Redstone Clinic - Wolf Point

   Health Services are available for Indians of the Fort Peck Reservation
   at the two clinics located in Poplar and Wolf Point. Services available
   include general medicine, nursing care, obstetrics, gynecology,
   pediatrics, x-rays, laboratory tests, pharmacy, dental, audiology,
   optometry, nutrition, social services, specialty care, referrals and
   medical record documentation.

   The Tribal Health and Fort Peck Indian Health Service Clinic programs
   want to serve you in the best possible way. We also want to hear from
   you if you have any questions, suggestions, complaints or positive
   comments. Please let us know. You can contact any of the following: The
   Tribal Executive Board, The Tribal HEW Committee, The Tribal Health
   Director, The IHS Service Unit Director or The IHS Clinical Director.
   The HEW Committee meets the 2nd Wednesday of every month at 8:00 A.M.
   The others can be contacted during the day at their offices,
   Monday-Friday.

                             Available Services
                      (Note: Click on area of interest)

                                      1
   Administration

                                     14
   Mental Health

                                      2
   Alcohol Treatment

                                     15
   Nursing

                                      3
   Ambulance

                                     16
   Nutrition

                                      4
   Appointments/Registration

                                     17
   Optometry

                                      5
   Audiology

                                     18
   Pharmacy

                                      6
   Business Office

                                     19
   Physical Therapy

                                      7
   CHR's

                                     20
   Public Health Nursing

                                      8
   Contract Health Service

                                     21
   Radiology

                                      9
   Dental

                                     22
   Renal Dialysis

                                     10
   Diabetes

                                     23
   Social Services

                                     11
   Environmental Health

                                     24
   WIC

                                     12
   Health Education

                                     25
   Specialty Clinics

                                     13
   Laboratory

                                     26
   Statistics

   1. ADMINISTRATION: The Administrative Team is always available to
   assist the patient with concerns that they have with the healthcare
   delivery system. The Team consists of the Service Unit Director,
   Administrative Officer, Clinical Director, Chief Medical Officer and
   the Professional Service Specialist. They are available Monday through
   Friday, 8:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Feel free to contact us any time that
   you have concerns, complaints, compliments or suggestions for
   improvement in our clinics and health care delivery systems. The phone
   numbers are:
   Poplar (406)768-3491 or Wolf Point (406) 653-1641.

   2. ALCOHOL TREATMENT: Spotted Bull Treatment Center located in Poplar
   provides (Phase I) initial screening, assessments and evaluation. All
   detoxification’s are done at IHS facilities. Critical cases may be
   referred directly to the hospital from the jail.

   3. AMBULANCE: The Poplar and Wolf Point Ambulance Services are
   volunteer organizations. The services each have three ambulances, fully
   equipped and supplied for emergency care and transport as required by
   the state of Montana. The services provide emergency medical service to
   the towns of Poplar, Brockton, and Fort Kipp, Wolf Point, Oswego, and
   Frazer, Montana. All volunteers are EMT or First Responder Ambulance
   trained.

   4. APPOINTMENTS / REGISTRATION:

   Poplar:  Patients can make their own appointments for clinic visits,
   these would include physicial exams, pap smear, well child visits, and
   circumcisions. Appointments can be scheduled by telephone or in person
   by contacting the appointment clerk. All appointments for general
   clinic or specialty clinics should be referred by a physician.
   Arrangements for transportation can also be made by the appointment
   clerk in conjunction with contract health care as applicable. To make
   an appointment for transportation arrangements, call the appointment
   clerk at (406) 768-5449 or 768-3491, ext. 394.

   Wolf Point: Appointments are made according to staff availability and
   physician schedules. To make an appointment for General Clinic, Dental,
   Mental Health, Prenatal, Nutrition, Audiology, or Specialty Clinics
   call (406) 653-1641. Appointments may be made in person or by
   telephone.

   5. AUDIOLOGY: A licensed audiologist is available for the following
   audiological services: diagnostic hearing evaluation, typanometry,
   hearing aid and evaluation and dispensing, hearing aid cleaning and
   repair, swim plugs and noise plugs, cerumen (ear wax management and
   electronystagmography (ENG). In addition, ear, nose and throat (ENT)
   clinic is held through the audiology department once a month.

   6. BUSINESS OFFICE: The business office is available to bill third
   party payers for services provided in the clinic. They can help answer
   your questions about Medicare and Medicaid letters. They are available
   Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

   7. CHR SERVICES: Includes Home Health Care to the aged and handicapped;
   delivering medications; dental care; ear, nose and throat (ENT)
   clinics; diabetic monitoring; hypertension monitoring and transporting
   patients to meet clinic appointments.

   8. CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES (CHS): Provides payment (full amount or the
   balance after a third party payment, i.e. private insurance, Medicare,
   etc.) for hospitalization, medical emergencies and specialty care for
   eligible Indian People that are referred by IHS physicians. In order to
   provide payment of medical bills, the following instructions need to be
   followed: All emergency treatment must be reported to a contract health
   service staff within 72 hours of beginning of treatment (report can
   also be to the Service Unit Director or Administrative Officer).
   Follow-ups and return visits to a contract provider must be authorized
   by CHS personnel before returning, however, CHS will authorize one
   follow-up visit. (Non-emergency referrals will be discussed at our CHS
   committee meeting at which time a determination will be made for
   authorization of payment). Approval for payment of medical bills in
   only authorized by CHS and not the physician.

   9. DENTAL:  Provides general dental care to children and adults. Dental
   emergency patients (toothache patients) will be seen on a walk-in basis
   between the hours of 8:00-10:00 a.m., Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and
   12:30-2:30 on Tuesday. Toothache patients will be seen on a first-come,
   first-serve basis.

   10. DIABETES PROGRAM: Services include diabetes education, nutrition
   counseling, foot and nail, patient follow-up visits, smoking cessation
   and supervised exercise. Blood glucose meters are distributed through
   the department. Appointments for diabetes clinic can be obtained by
   contacting the program secretary.

   11. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH (638): Coordinates construction of facilities
   for safe and sanitary drinking water, sewage and solid waste disposal
   for individual homes and community systems. Conducts environmental
   health surveys of public buildings, schools and restaurants.
   Coordinates the community injury control program.

   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH ENGINEERING SERVICES are available but now limited
   to drilling, solid waste disposal and elapsed E. H. Engineering
   services.

   12. HEALTH EDUCATION: Provides one-on-one patient education and health
   training to community groups, schools and health workers. Assists in
   organizing preventive health projects in the community. Provides
   health-related audiovisual and written materials to groups and
   individuals.

   13. LABORATORY: Diagnostic services are provided by a laboratory
   staffed with qualified personnel utilizing state-of-the-art equipment
   and techniques.

   14. MENTAL HEALTH: Scope of Care and Services: Clinic services are
   provided by clinical psychologists. The services are offered to
   children, adolescents, adults, families, communities, and the boarding
   and public schools. There are individual, group, marital and family
   therapy sessions, along with art psychotherapy. Psychiatric
   consultation is provided, discharge planning, comprehensive
   psychological testing if needed. Educational testing for any learning
   problems. Referrals for consultation and liaison services, inservice
   training, education program, comprehensive prevention program.
   Inpatient psychiatric treatment referrals. Current staff of 4
   psychologists.

   15. NURSING: The staff provides a wide variety of services ranging from
   triaging patients to reviewing charts and assisting providers with
   procedures to administering medications. The nursing assistants also
   provide many services; preparing the room and patient for examination;
   taking vital signs, making appropriate referrals and cleaning
   instruments.

   16. NUTRITION SERVICES: Fort Peck Tribes offer a full range of
   nutrition services to eligible clients. Dietitians from Frances Mahon
   Deaconess hospital, Glasgow, are on staff. Registered dietitians
   provide one-on-one nutritional counseling for walk-ins, by appointment
   and WIC participants. Nutrition education is also provided at Diabetic
   Clinics and Well Child Clinics.

   17. OPTOMETRY: Provides diagnosis and treatment of eye and vision
   diseases and problems. The Optometrist looks for cataracts, glaucoma
   and bleeding. Your conditions are treated with lenses, medications and
   therapy. Referrals are made when appropriate. Modern equipment provides
   greater patient comfort. Optometric technicians provide scheduling and
   appointments besides frame and lens selection and dispensing. Frame
   repair and adjustment are available Current staffed with 2
   optometrists.

   18. PHARMACY: The pharmacy department provides dispensing of
   prescription and over-the-counter medications, patient counseling, drug
   information, staff consultation and clinical support to the Poplar and
   Wolf Point Service Units. Pharmacy services are available during
   regular clinic hours.  Currently staffed with 5 pharmacists.

   19. PHYSICAL THERAPY: Services include aid to the handicapped, sports
   injuries, diabetic foot care, arthritic, fractures and amputations.
   These services are made available through a contract. These services
   are generally provided on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.. Appointments
   are made through referrals by the Indian Health Services physicians.

   20. PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING: The Public Health Nursing Department, also
   known as Community or Field Health Nursing, consists of five Public
   Health Nurses and a secretary. Services include home visits, patient
   education, follow-up for communicable diseases, immunizations and well
   child clinics. Referrals can be made via telephone call, in person or
   in writing.

   21. RADIOLOGY: Services to patients in radiology are in the form of
   skull (including face and sinus), spine, trunk, abdomen and extremity
   radiographs. Ultrasound examinations include renal, abdominal to
   include gall bladder, pancreas, liver and aorta; gynecological and
   obstetrical.

   22. RENAL DIALYSIS: The dialysis unit is owned and operated by the Fort
   Peck Tribes. The Fort Peck Tribe is licensed to operate a full dialysis
   (ESRD) unit under the provision of the state certification process.
   Since 1977, the service unit at Poplar has provided some form of
   dialysis therapy for a limited number of people. In January of 1988, a
   new dialysis unit was opened in the south wing of the Verne E. Gibbs
   IHS Clinic. With the new unit, the philosophy has changed to provide
   all patient’s needs in a Medicare Approved Unit that meets the state
   and federal guidelines. The units was designed to serve the need of the
   dialysis unit and has the capacity to treat sixty patients per week.
   The unit operates six days a week, from 7:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. Fort
   Peck Tribal Dialysis Project maintains an affiliation with Med Center
   One Dialysis Unit and Transplant Center in Bismarck, ND. Under the
   affiliation with Med Center One, the patient had a complete spectrum of
   choices available to him including dialysis, home dialysis, various
   forms of peritoneal dialysis and transplantation.

   23. SOCIAL SERVICES: Scope of Care and Services: Discharge planning for
   patients in the community hospitals and IHS clinics in Poplar and Wolf
   Point. Psychosocial assessment for VC Re-Hab and dialysis.
   Consultations within the hospital, clinic and community. Child
   Protection Team services. Liaison with tribal programs, agencies and
   schools. Alternate resources for high cost cases with placements on
   emergency and long term. Home visits and coordinating nursing home
   placements, with ongoing quarterly reports on dialysis patients, as
   well as needed intervention for depression, housing and/or other
   services. Currently staffed with 2 social workers.

   24. WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN: WIC provides nutritional assessment,
   education, and nutritious foods for women, infants and children who lie
   on or near the reservation, have low family income and are a
   nutritional risk. To obtain WIC benefits, a person must have a WIC
   certification from signed by a nurse or doctor every six months and
   approved by WIC dietitian. Vouchers are then issued for food purchases.
   Nutrition counseling is available.

   25. SPECIALTY CLINICS: Are available to the patients under contracts
   with various medical specialists. These services bring the specialist
   to the patient, making the clinics more convenient for the patient. The
   specialty clinics are posted in the lobby and walk-in area of the
   clinic. Patients are referred by IHS providers. The following is a list
   of the clinics:

     ENT/Audiology Clinic Nephrology Clinic
     Neurology Clinic Orthopedic Clinic
     Cardiology Clinic Pediatric Cardiology Clinic
     Pulmonary Clinic Rheumatology Clinic
     Minor Surgical Clinic Ophthalmology
     Psychiatrist Psychologist
     Treadmills Sigmoidoscopy
     Cranial/ Facial Clinic OB-GYN Clinic
     Developmental Assesssment Clinic

                           FORT PECK SERVICE UNIT
                        ASSINIBOINE and SIOUX TRIBES

                   FY 1996 IHS Official Population    7,304
                   FY 1997 IHS Official Population    7,439*
                 FY 1995 IHS Official USER Population 8,427

   Vern E. Gibbs Health Center, Poplar, Montana, 306 miles from Billings,
   Montana.The Health Center was constructed through a 638 Grant with the
   Fort Peck Tribes and opened in February 1978.

   F.Y. 1995 - Direct Outpatient Visits: 33,668

   Chief Red Stone Health Center, Wolf Point, Montana, opened for services
   in April 1990.

   F.Y. 1995 Direct Outpatient Visits: 26,568

   Inpatient Services - Community hospitals in Poplar and Wolf Point,
   Montana, and Williston, North Dakota via Contract Health Care. Indian
   Health Service physicians see patients at the Poplar Community Hospital
   and Trinity Hospital in Wolf Point, Montana, where the physicians have
   staff privileges.

   *Projections are based on the modified 1990 census data.

   OUTPATIENT WORKLOADS           FY95   FY94   FY93   FY92   FY91
   Verne E. Gibbs Health Center:
   Total Outpatient Visits       33,668 32,270 31,624 32,934 31,285
   Chief Redstone Health Center:
   Total Outpatient Visits       26,568 23,471 21,792 20,913 18,598
   Poplar Community Hospital:
   Total Outpatient Visits       1,328  2,456  1,958  2,934  4,340
   Trinity Hospital (Wolf Point):
   Total Outpatient Visits        534   1,370   955    737   1,704

   Employment Facilities Communities History Education Housing Recreation

             Send any comments or suggestion about this site to:
                      webmaster@bilb2.billings.ihs.gov

   Accessibility  --  Disclaimer  --  Website Privacy Policy  --  Freedom
   of Information Act
   Kids Page  --  Contact Information  --  FirstGov  --  HHS

   This file last modified:   Wednesday May 30, 2001  2:04 PM
