http://awma-gws.baaqmd.gov/Newsletters.htm

                                 Newsletters


   Home
   Purpose
   History
   GWS Chapters
   Directors
   Calendar
   Membership
   Student Awards
   Newsletters



   Email Us [email.gif]


   GOLDEN WEST SECTION - AIR & WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION NEWSLETTER
   SPRING 2001

   Chairman's Message
   By Dave Calkins

   On May 1, it will be my pleasure to become the new Chairman of the
   Golden West Section. At this time, Deborah Jordan will serve as the
   Vice-Chair. You may recall that last Spring you elected Mr. Pleas
   McNeel to replace Fred Cooper for the 2000-2002 term as Chair and
   myself as Vice-Chair. However, shortly thereafter Pleas moved to
   Jackson, Mississippi and we were very fortunate that Peter Hess agreed
   to return as Chair for the past year. In turn, I will now step up as
   Chair and Debbie Jordan has graciously accepted the Vice-Chair.

   The upcoming year should prove to be very interesting in the
   environmental field if the past several months are any indication.
   Whenever there is a change in the Administration, whether Democrat or
   Republican, changes in policies, people, and priorities lead to a
   heightened interest for all of us in future direction of air pollution
   and waste management. This will also provide grist for challenging
   speakers and topics for the Section's upcoming dinners and workshops.

   As many of you know, I "retired" from the U.S. EPA in 1995 after a
   thirty-year career with the Agency and its predecessors. Since then, I
   have been a consultant working with developing countries on air quality
   and transportation issues as well as domestic environmental projects as
   a senior consultant to ENVIRON International. I am hopeful that this
   background will help me through my leadership role with the Golden West
   Section. However, I have an outstanding group of colleagues on the
   Board to help me out in this effort. Our new Vice Chair, Debbie Jordan,
   is the Associate Director of the Air Division at EPA-Region 9 and will
   keep us all informed of the developments and changes at the Federal
   level. Our Secretary is Andree Youngson of Dow Chemical and our
   Treasurer continues to be Terry Lee of the Bay Area AQMD. Larry Chaset
   has rejuvenated our monthly dinner meetings as Program Chair this year,
   and Doug Wolf continues to serve as the Scholarship Committee Chair.

   I would be remiss not to mention our two very active Chapters that have
   equally exciting programs and conferences at locations more accessible
   to many of our members. David Deckman of Sierra Research chairs the
   Mother Lode Chapter and its members come from throughout the Sacramento
   Valley and Sierra foothills. Kathy Parker of Insight International
   chairs the Golden Empire Chapter with members primarily from the San
   Joaquin Valley. One of our new features resulting from greater use of
   e-mail announcements is the ability to distribute both Section and
   Chapter meeting announcements to all members. Should you be traveling
   in the vicinity when such a meeting is scheduled, I strongly encourage
   you to "drop in" and you will be treated to a program that will
   enlighten your knowledge of that area.

   Finally, we formed a Sister Section with Hong Kong in 1999 and hope to
   continue to support an active relationship between our sections in the
   upcoming years. I welcome any suggestions on how to enhance this
   liaison.

   Before closing, a special thanks to our Immediate Past Chair, Fred
   Cooper, for the two years of leadership he provided during very
   difficult times for the Association. Fred continues to actively
   maintain the membership roles and meeting announcements. And, to Peter
   Hess who has been an excellent mentor to other Board members and me
   during the past year. Good luck, Peter, in the upcoming A&WMA election
   of officers.

   Lastly, please do not hesitate to provide me any suggestions, comments,
   ideas (and even complaints!) on how to make our Golden West Section
   better serve you in the next year. I can be reached at (925-254-5942)
   or e-mail davecalkins@home.com . I look forward to your input.

   David Calkins
   Chairman, Golden West Section

   GWS OFFERS SCHOLARSHIP FOR EXCELLENT ACADEMIC WORK IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL
   FIELD

   Each year the Golden West Section offers an academic scholarship to a
   student who demonstrates excellent performance in his/her academic work
   in
   the environmental field. Laura Wynholds, an undergraduate student at
   the
   UC Davis Department of Environmental and Resource Science is the
   undergraduate recipient of this year's Scholarship. Ms. Wynhold's
   academic
   work and her specialization in the field of biological and physical
   sciences has been exhibited through her outstanding academic record and
   through extra curricular activities.

   The Golden West Section is proud to present our scholarship winner with
   a
   tuition stipend. Additionally, her department, the Davis Department of
   Environmental and Resource Science at UC Davis, will receive $500 in
   her
   name. Congratulations, Laura.

   PETER HESS ON BALLOT AS INTERNATIONAL BOARD MEMBER

   If you haven't noticed in the ballot package from the Home Office, our
   Past Chair, Peter Hess is running as a candidate for the Board of
   Directors of the International Association. Peter was nominated by Jack
   S.
   Lagarias who served as President in 1968-69 of APCA, the predecessor of
   A&WMA. Members of the A&WMA Board of Directors serve in categories
   based
   on employment. Peter and Richard Sprott of Utah are running for the
   Government sector category seat.
   CALKINS ELECTED AS A&WMA FELLOW

   The Golden West Section has been informed that Dave Calkins, our new
   Section Chair has been elevated to Fellow Status in the Association.
   Dave
   will be one of the nine members of A&WMA that will receive Fellow
   status
   at the Annual meeting this June in Orlando. Election as a Fellow is in
   recognition of two categories; professional accomplishments and service
   to
   the Association. Dave was recognized for his many years service to the
   Federal government and his work in establishing sister Sections in the
   Far
   East. A candidate for Fellow grade must have at least 15 years in the
   field related to the mission of A&WMA and been an individual member for
   at
   least 10 years. Dave is currently an International Consultant with
   ENVIRON. Two former Golden West Section members, John Watson and Judy
   Chow
   will also receive Fellow status this June.

   GWS MEETINGS

   The schedule for future meetings of the Golden West Section is
   indicated
   below:

   [acdbull1.gif] April 19, 2001
   Total Maximum Daily Loads (TDML) in the South Bay
   Silver Dragon restaurant in Oakland.
   [acdbull1.gif] May 2001 (Specific date to be announced)
   Air Quality Consequences of Current Energy Crisis.
   [acdbull1.gif] June 2001
   Tentatively, a dinner (Now looking at breakfast) meeting featuring Jack
   Braodbent, the new Chief of EPA Region 9's Air Division.

   Announcements for these meetings will be sent to our members via e-mail
   or
   mail separately. Note that we normally take a vacation during the
   summer
   months and plan to provide another series of meetings on relevant
   environmental topics beginning in September.

   GWS FACILITATES ATTENDANCE AT A&WMA ANNUAL MEETING

   The 94th Annual Conference and Exhibition of the Air & Waste Management
   Association will be held in Orlando from June 24 to 28, 2001. Many
   Golden
   West Section members are planning to attend.

   Recognizing that many may need to limit their costs to attend, the
   Golden
   West Section is providing a communication link between members who may
   wish to split hotel costs.

   Any interested member should write a short e-message with name and
   contact
   information to the Golden West Section at "AWMA-GWS@baaqmd.gov". We
   will
   serve to distribute these messages to all others who express a similar
   interest. We hope to see you in Orlando.

   REMINDER: UPDATE YOUR ADDRESS INFO ONLINE

   Members of Air & Waste Management Association are reminded that they
   can
   easily update any changes in address, phone, or e-mail address online.
   Simply, go to the "Update Membership Info" page of the Members Only
   Section of the A&WMA web site (www.awma.org). This is a quick and easy
   way
   to assure that you will receive all of the information from A&WMA,
   including announcements from the Golden West Section.

   GOLDEN WEST SECTION SALUTES THE LONG TIME MEMBERS

   The Air & Waste Management Association was formed in 1907 as a neutral
   forum where all parties can voice their opinions, and a network to
   promote
   better air quality. Since the inception of the Golden West Section in
   1983
   and its predecessor the West Coast Section in 1973 the local units of
   A&WMA or APCA (for you very old timers) have been the backbone of the
   Association. The following Golden West Section members have forged us
   to
   be what we are, the premier environmental Association of academia,
   government, industry and environmental technology providers. From the
   leaders of the Golden West Section...We thank you for all you have done
   to
   make us great.

   40+ YEARS
   Levaggi, Dario
   35+ YEARS
   Baruch,  Stephen

   30+ YEARS
   Sawyer,  Robert F
   Swanson, Robert
   25+ YEARS
   Altshuler, Samuel
   Boese, Mark
   Cahill, Thomas
   Chang, Daniel
   Christofides, Plato
   Cooper, Fred
   Donnelly, James
   Hess, Peter
   Mueller, Peter
   Newberry, Conrad
   Nishikawa, Kiyoshi
   Ott, Wayne
   Richards, L. Willard
   Roth, Philip
   Simeroth, Dean
   Steiner, Jim
   Williams, David
   Wolbach, C. D
                       20+ YEARS
                       Ballanti, Donald
                       Blumenthal, Donald
                       Cook, Douglas
                       Cover, Douglas
                       Demandel, Robin
                       Dene, Charles
                       Finucane, Edward
                       Fowler, Douglas P
                       Grisinger, John
                       Gunderson, Darryl
                       Hahn, Jeffrey
                       Howard, Keith
                       Kalinowski, Thomas
                       Leong, Eugene
                       Lorenzen, Arndt
                       Macarthur, Rory
                       Murray, James
                       Odle, Lawrence
                       Olin, John
                       Peters, Thomas
                       Posson, Mark
                       Reynolds, Robert
                       Shinn, Joseph
                       Slakey, Philip
                       Stein, David
                       Sweet-Dodge, Wileen
                       Vranka, Robert
                       Wasilewski, Joseph G
                       Waterland, Larry
                       Withycombe, Earl












                                  Zannetti, Paolo
