http://atlas-csc.inst.bnl.gov/ASMII.pdf

   DRAFT CSC ASM II Board K.Vetter 29-Nov-99 INTRODUCTION The purpose of
   this document is to describe the design goals and functionality of the
   prototype ASM (ASM II) board used on the CSC chamber. The primary
   design objective is to develop an ASM board quickly that will serve as
   a test-bed for the CSC front end electronics and SCA controller
   development. This includes the characterization of the NEVIS SCA,
   AD9220 ADC and Pre-Amp. The second objective is to be able to use the
   ASM II board in the June-2000 CSC beam test at CERN. ASM II BOARD The
   ASM II board will have one SCA producing twelve channels. Four
   selectable analog channels for real-time analysis are also provided.
   Configurable parameters include number of samples, number of samples
   prior to trigger and analog channel select. Parameters are selected by
   on-board switches or via remote control link. Unlike the Liquid Argon
   configuration the SCA will be biased at +5v and GND. This biasing
   arrangement changes the logic levels to the SCA. We hope to be able to
   adjust the bias current to the logic inputs on the SCA such that a
   threshold voltage of +1.2v above ground is achieved. By doing this the
   digital control lines of the SCA will be LVDS compatible. Included are
   four analog channels for real-time analysis. Data is multiplexed into
   four FIFO's during the SCA read sequence. The data is then re-timed by
   reading the FIFO's at the 5MHz SCA readout rate upon completion of the
   SCA read sequence. Digital data from the ADC is made available for
   transmission to a data acquisition system. The signals will be
   transmitted using LVDS to maximize noise immunity over an approximate
   100ft span during beam test. The ADC data is sent in parallel to an
   on-board HP G-Link fiber optic transceiver. A functional block diagram
   for the CSC ASM II board is shown below. It should be noted that the
   pre-amp will not reside on the ASM II board. The pre-amp will be tested
   with the ASM II as two interconnected separate assemblies. 1 Figure 1
   ASM II NUMEROLOGY An example calculation of data rates is illustrated
   in table 1 based on five samples per channel and ten bits per sample.
   Channels 12 Samples/channel 5 Bits/sample 10 Trigger rate 100 Hz
   Channels per ASM II 12 SCA's per ASM II 1 Samples/trigger 60
   Bits/trigger 600 Bits/sec/ 60kbps ASM II CONTROLLER It has been decided
   to proceed with an SCA controller based on commercial FPGA SRAM based
   technology. An Altera EP20K100 from the Apex family has been chosen.
   The choice of SRAM technology was deemed necessary to be able to
   characterized the front end electrical components in the shortest time
   possible. The controller program contents will be stored on-board in an
   Altera 2 EPC2 EPROM. This makes it possible to reprogram the controller
   in-circuit via the JTAG (IEEE 1149.1) interface. The first-order SCA
   controller will not incorporate the list processor scheme. The
   controller will be capable of reading out SCA data based on user
   selectable starting pre-trigger address, and selectable number of
   channel sample points. Four [12x144] FIFO's are included that are
   capable of storing a complete SCA channel. The FIFO's are preceded by
   an ADC multiplexor that selects 4 of 12 channels to be stored in the
   FIFO's. The channel selection is programmable via on-board switches or
   remote control. Upon reception of an external trigger the controller
   inhibits the SCA write clk (Wclk) and begins the SCA readout sequence.
   The SCA is readout at a rate of 5MHz. The FIFO's are filled at a rate
   depending of the number of samples per channel since the SCA is readout
   on a rotating sample per channel basis (i.e.
   c1s1,c4s1,c7s1,c10s1,c2s1,c5s1,c8s1,c11s1,c3s1,c6s1,c9s1,c12s1,c1s2).
   After the SCA readout process is complete a state machine is
   initialized to begin the FIFO readout process. The FIFO's are re-timed
   to the SCA readout clock of 5MHz. Each FIFO channel is 12 bits. Figure
   2. DATA AQUISITON AND TEST 3 Although four channels are provided on the
   ASM II for real-time analysis on an oscilloscope it would be desirable
   to capture the ADC digital data. This is not only desirable for
   development at BNL, but a requirement for beam test. A proposed Data
   Acquisition system for beam test is shown below in figure 3. Data from
   the ASM II would be captured by a high speed PCI based plug-in data
   acquisition card. One possible solution is the Gage Compuscope 3200
   capable of capturing 32-bits of data at 100MHz. This would meet the
   5MHz burst data rate from the ASM II. The second requirement is to be
   able to remotely control parameters on the ASM II board. A possible
   solution would be to use the Gage 3250 plug-in card. This product is
   capable of sending 32-bit digital words at 50MHz. Control of the 3250
   can be accomplished using either Gage software, or LabView drivers from
   Gage. Other solutions based on PC data acquisition from companies such
   as National Instruments are also being evaluated. An advantage of this
   system is that all data would be available via network or internet. It
   would then be possible to copy files for analysis using Unix based
   programs such as PAW. Figure 3. 4
