http://exchanges.state.gov/education/beirutagreement.htm

   globe                                             U.S. Department of State
         lines
                                               contact us FOIA Privacy Notice
         About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
         Abroad
         Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
         Education and Culture
         Business Center Other Services Employment
         [button6.gif]


   World-Wide Free Flow of Audio-Visual Materials
   (22 CFR 61)

      The Beirut Agreement
      The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs administers the 1948
      Agreement for Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual and
      Auditory Materials of an Educational, Scientific and Cultural Character
      (known as the Beirut Agreement).
      The Agreement is an international collaborative effort to promote the
      free flow and exchange of certain audio-visual materials worldwide. The
      Agreement provides an exemption of import duties, import licenses,
      special taxes, quantitative restrictions and other restraints and costs
      on certain types of audiovisual materials.
      Requestors must submit an Application for Certification of
      International Educational Character (DS-2038) for consideration. When
      the Department of State determines that submitted materials are of
      educational, scientific, and cultural character, the requestor is
      issued a certificate (DS-2039, Certificate Issued to Facilitate the
      International Circulation of Audiovisual Materials of an Educational,
      Scientific and Cultural Character) to that effect.
      The Department also issues importation documents which attest that
      audiovisual materials of foreign origin entering the United States
      comply with the standards of the Agreement and are entitled to
      duty-free entry in the United States (DS-2040, U.S. Importation
      Document for Audiovisual Materials). Requestors should submit to the
      Department a certificate from the country of origin attesting that the
      material is of educational, scientific, and cultural character. When
      the materials are determined to meet the requirements of the Agreement,
      the Department will issue a U.S. Importation Document.
      Regulations
      Regulations governing the agreement are contained in Part 22, Code of
      Federal Regulations, Section 61.
      Authority for Implementing the Agreement
      Authority for administering and implementing the Agreement resides in
      the Department of State pursuant to the consolidation of the United
      States Information Agency (which formerly administered the Agreement)
      with the Department of State effective
      October 1, 1999. (See Federal Register: October 7, 1999 [Volume 64,
      Number 194])
      [line.gif]
      General information and application forms may be obtained by
      contacting:
      Chief Attestation Officer of the United States
      ECA/EX/PR
      U.S. Department of State
      301 4th Street, S.W.
      Washington, D.C. 20547
      Phone: (202) 205-9076
      Fax: (202)-205-8669
