http://www.oic.gov/SMALTZ/FnlRpt.htm

                          [ISMAP:navbar.gif]-NAVBAR

           Please remember to use your browser's REFRESH button to
       ensure you are veiwing the most recent version of the web page.

                                 O.I.C. logo



                       UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                    FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

                         Division for the Purpose of
                       Appointing Independent Counsels
                Ethics in Government Act of 1978, As Amended

                              Division No. 94-2
     __________________________________________________________________

                   FINAL REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL

                                   In Re:

                        ALPHONSO MICHAEL (MIKE) ESPY
     __________________________________________________________________

                              DONALD C. SMALTZ
                             Independent Counsel

                                 www.oic.gov

                           Filed January 30, 2001
                         Published October 25, 2001
                               Washington, DC
     __________________________________________________________________

                               ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

   Every criminal investigation or prosecution is a team effort and, given
   its scope and scale, this investigation and its resulting prosecutions
   against almost two dozen defendants in four venues demanded a
   particularly talented, dedicated, and hard-working team. While it is
   impossible to identify everyone whose contributions aided the effort, I
   would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the many
   dedicated people who worked with me, often for very long hours and with
   modest compensation, to bring our efforts to successful fruition. Many
   of these people were required to relocate from their homes for extended
   periods of time, and so their families, including mine, also deserve
   acknowledgment of, and appreciation for, their many sacrifices.

   An Independent Counsel office is by statute ad hoc. Its size and
   duration are determined by the scope of its jurisdictional mandate and
   the extent of the criminal conduct uncovered. It offers its employees
   no expectation of a "career path" or even a defined term of employment.
   The investigative agents, attorneys, and staff who volunteer to work
   for the Office of the Independent Counsel interrupt their career paths
   and forego future opportunities otherwise available - a significant
   sacrifice. Moreover, both the OIC and they personally may become the
   object of political polemics, a tactic frequently employed by opponents
   of the investigation.

   Notwithstanding these drawbacks, this investigation attracted an
   outstanding array of legal talent from around the country, from both
   the public and private sectors. I was particularly fortunate in being
   able to enlist a large number of highly experienced former and current
   federal prosecutors, both as staff and as advisors. All of my senior
   trial counsel had substantial trial experience as federal prosecutors.
   Overall, about two-thirds of the Office's attorneys were current or
   former prosecutors.

   At the apex of the attorney staff were my successive Deputy Independent
   Counsels, Charles G. Bakaly, III, Theodore S. Greenberg (team leader
   for United States v. Sun-Diamond Growers of California, United States
   v. Tyson Foods, Inc., and United States v. James Lake), and Robert W.
   Ray (team leader for United States v. Archibald R. Schaffer, III and
   United States v. Jack L. Williams). My immediate right-hand assistants
   were the Counsellors to the Independent Counsel, first Theodore S.
   Greenberg and then William F. Fahey (team leader for United States v.
   Ronald H. Blackley), followed by Robert W. Ray, and thereafter Jacob S.
   Frenkel (co-team leader for United States v. Alvarez T. Ferrouillet,
   Jr./John J. Hemmingson).

   My Chief Appellate Counsel throughout the investigation was Charles M.
   Kagay, whose service included significant trial court briefing in
   addition to appellate matters and who also undertook primary
   responsibility for drafting this final report, a daunting task given
   the breadth of the investigations.

   The trial attorneys for our numerous cases included Adrienne R. Baron,
   Barry Coburn (team leader for United States v. Five M Farming
   Enterprises, Inc., et al.), Michael R. Davis, Jacob S. Frenkel, Wil
   Frentzen, Joseph P. Guichet, Trent B. Harkrader, Joe M. Hollomon (team
   leader for United States v. Norris J. Faust, Jr.), Roscoe C. Howard,
   Jr., Benjamin B. Klubes, Mark J. Krum (team leader for United States v.
   Henry William Espy, Jr.), Kathleen M. Nicolaides, William S. Noakes,
   Jr., Robert O'Neill (team leader for United States v. Richard Douglas),
   Eduardo G. Roy, Joseph F. Savage (team leader for United States v. Crop
   Growers Corporation), and David Schertler. Other attorneys who worked
   on the investigative, trial support, and appellate tasks of the Office
   included Bruce A. Abbott, Walter F. Becker, Jr., James L. Brochin, Mark
   S. Brodin, George D. Brown, Blanche L. Bruce, Kimberly S. Davis,
   Roberto Iraola, Stephen R. McAllister, Charles P. Murdter, Nathan J.
   Muyskens, Allen L. Neelley, Jan Patterson, Henry H. Rossbacher, David
   Smith, Elizabeth Taylor, George Van Cleve, Thomson von Stein, L.C.
   Wright, and Tracy W. Young. Paul S. Rosenzweig provided valuable input
   in the creation and review of this Report. I was also extremely
   fortunate to be advised on an as-needed basis by a group of very
   experienced attorneys serving without compensation under the title of
   Advisory Independent Counsel - Leighton M. Anderson, Joseph F.
   Barletta, Anthony R. Corso, Don DeGabrielle, Stephen H. Jigger, Steve
   Mansfield, George B. Newhouse, Jr., Daniel J. O'Brien, Melvyn H.
   Rappaport, and Michael I. Spiegel.

   The backbone of this office's investigative efforts was a staff of
   extremely capable investigative agents. The largest group of these
   agents came from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and worked under
   the guidance of Mark B. Codd, Supervisory Special Agent, who provided
   skilled leadership and sage counsel throughout his tenure. The agents
   included J. T. Burns (who worked on the investigation from beginning to
   end), Peggy Campane, John R. Cantalupo, Margaret Carmichael, Brian K.
   Cosgriff, Cynthia A. Falls, Francis X. Gaughen, Mark A. Grisham, Alexis
   Hatten, E. Leo Martinez, Carolyn Murphy, and Lawrence J. Welk. The
   United States Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General
   also contributed a major contingent of special agents, headed by
   Supervisory Special Agent Kim Widup, whose indefatigable determination
   was contagious and whose highly skilled services spanned the entirety
   of the investigation through the conclusion of all prosecutions. The
   United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) agents included Neal H.
   Hasheider, Derrick N. Hurst, Don Meeks, Stacy Rubey-deGuerrero, and Pam
   Taylor. Investigators from other agencies, who contributed a
   multiplicity of talents, included Arthur L. Wicks, Ronald DiStefano,
   and Stephen C. Dodge of the U.S. Customs Service; Leonard Thill of the
   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); David P. Cyr of the U.S.
   Postal Service; Ray Gregson and John D. Fort of the U.S. Treasury
   Department/Internal Revenue Service; and retired F.B.I. agents James T.
   Burns, Jerry Marsh, Richard O'Connell, Lewis L. Small, and Robert E.
   Smith.

   The efforts of the attorneys and investigators could not have been as
   efficient and effective as they were without the continual support of
   an excellent staff of legal assistants. The corps of paralegals was
   ably and tirelessly headed by Barbara P. Schultz, and included David L.
   Dunleavy, Rosemary A. Ficalora, William L. Hurlock, Jacob D. Kortz,
   John A. Kruger III, James Lagomarsino, James D. Manclark, William S.
   McNish, Brett L. Shelton, Kerry A. Stehn, Josephine J. Tao, Carly B.
   Tolchin, Ruth M. Vogelsang, and Denise E. Washington. The law clerks
   and legal interns serving our effort included David S. Hochman, Michael
   C. Petronio, Lisa A. Rich, Lisa Stern, and Diane E. Wolf.

   The work of this office also depended vitally on a talented troop of
   accountants, auditors, and financial analysts supporting our efforts.
   Neill W. Freeman, Laurence A. Mills, Ellen Faun, Fred Smolen, and James
   F. Chadbourne III, provided expert forensic accounting services. Alvin
   A. Brown of the USDA and Michelle Biess also provided accounting
   support. Leonard Thill of the SEC provided accounting expertise in
   securities matters. Philip J. Rooney from beginning to end supplied the
   accounting support and related advice necessary to the administration
   of the office.

   A small number of exceptionally skilled professionals provided
   essential trial preparation, evidence presentation, and information
   dissemination services. Providing jury consulting services were Dr.
   Donald E. Vinson, Steve Paterson, and Norma Silverstein; Lorrie
   Messinger and Gayle Mumm assisted in the preparation of demonstrative
   trial exhibits of complex evidentiary materials. Public response
   advisors included Eric Dezenhall and Andy Shea; and William P. Kucewicz
   provided editing vital to the completion of this Report.

   No law office can function without its executive support staff, and we
   were particularly fortunate in attracting dedicated and capable workers
   to fill these crucial positions. I particularly want to acknowledge the
   indispensable assistance of my most talented, tireless, and absolutely
   dedicated confidential assistant Janice M. Drake, who also functioned
   as my secretary, confidant, press officer, and shepherd for the Final
   Report. The role of confidential assistant was also briefly and ably
   filled by Mae Chauvin, who also contributed as a trial assistant.
   Elizabeth Ray and Peggy Thume exhibited total dedication and commitment
   as they assisted in a variety of roles throughout the investigations
   and trials, and in the preparation of the Final Report. The other
   helpful and highly effective members of the secretarial staff included
   Eileen B. Aarons, Delores "Tiesha" Banks, Christine L. Brown, Judy
   Buechner, Danielle L. Cannata, Lauren C. Davis, Angie R. Drehsler, Ann
   Fisher-Durrah, Frank E. Gillen, Ann T. McLean, Gwendolyn Shuler, Ruth
   Marion Tichenor, and Avis C. Wilson. Ably supporting their efforts was
   a clerical staff, including Clifton Z. Dameron, Carol Ann Daniel, Eric
   J. Dominitz, Frances D. Johnson, Ramona R. Kerley, Thomas A. Kertscher,
   Joshua E. Miller, David Tillotson, and Christopher von Stein.

   The efforts of the above personnel would not have been possible without
   a well-run home office in Alexandria, Virginia (with occasional
   satellites when necessary). Fortunately, we were served by experienced
   administrative personnel who kept this support structure running at
   high level of efficiency at all times. The head of this effort was the
   office administrator, a role filled successively and always capably by
   Carol McCreary-Maddox, Kerry A. Stehn and, since April 1998, Margaret
   B. Jackson, assisted for a time by Lauren Daniel Thomas. The satellite
   offices were administered in New Orleans, Louisiana, and Jackson,
   Mississippi, by Luis Jeffrey Martorell, and in San Francisco by Ruth
   Vogelsang. The office's computer network was ably managed at different
   times by Emmanuel S. Vouvakis, William L. Hurlock, James D. Manclark,
   Josephine J. Tao, and, for the past three years, James A. Reid, Sr.,
   who also bore the responsibility for maintaining the Office's website.
   Finally, no office of this scale can function without the
   jack-of-all-trades who can make everything work whenever and wherever
   as needed. The absolutely indispensable Calvin S. Holt, Jr., whose
   duties and responsibilities far exceeded his Property Manager title,
   most ably fulfilled that role in each of our various offices.

   Finally, I wish to acknowledge and publicly thank those citizens who
   served as jurors. The grand juries in San Francisco, New Orleans, and
   Jackson, Mississippi worked patiently and thoughtfully in consideration
   of the evidence behind the indictments we obtained in those cities. In
   particular, the grand jury in the District of Columbia labored
   tirelessly in anonymity to perform its vital investigatory functions
   from October 1994 through April 1998. This body, so essential to any
   meaningful investigation, met on a weekly basis, sometimes as
   frequently as four days a week, to hear testimony and review
   documentary evidence. Its patience, insightful countenance, and
   instructive comments contributed significantly to our efforts.
   Similarly, the citizens who served as petit jurors for our numerous
   trials deserve recognition for the time and thoughtful effort they gave
   as essential participants in our system of justice.

   I am immensely grateful to all of these people for their dedication and
   their hard work. I am both pleased and proud to have worked in
   association with the people in my office for an extended period of
   time. To each and every one, I extend sincere thanks and
   congratulations for a job well done.

   Don Smaltz
   Independent Counsel
     __________________________________________________________________

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

   ORDER

   I. INTRODUCTION
   A. Summary of Investigation
       B. Background Information

   1. The United States Department of Agriculture
       2. Alphonso Michael Espy

   a. Biographical Information
       b. Secretary Espy's Knowledge of Ethical Constraints

   C. Initial Allegations and Investigations
   1. Investigation by the Office of Inspector General, USDA
       2. Investigation by the Department of Justice
       3. The Attorney General's Application for Appointment of an
       Independent Counsel
       4. White House Inquiry
       5. Allegations of Additional Improprieties
       6. Appointment of the Independent Counsel

   II. THE OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL'S INVESTIGATION
   A. Gifts Solicited or Received by Secretary Espy

   1. Gifts from Tyson Foods, Inc.

   a. The Donors
       b. Donors' Interest in Secretary Espy's Official Acts

   (1) USDA Food Safety Initiatives

   (a) Zero Tolerance for Pathogens
       (b) Safe-Handling Labeling

   (2) Fresh-Frozen Labeling

   (3) Detainment of Chicken in Puerto Rico

   c. Gifts Given
   (1) Four Seats at a Presidential Inaugural Dinner
       (2) The Russellville Weekend Musical Celebration
       (3) Scholarship to Secretary Espy's Girlfriend
       (4) The Dallas Football Game
       (5) Basketball Tickets and Travel Benefits to Assistant Secretary

   d. Allegations of Cash Payments from Tyson Foods to Public Officials

   e. Summary Timeline

   f. False Statements to Federal Investigators

   g. Prosecution Decisions

   2. Gifts from Sun-Diamond Growers of California and Richard Douglas
   a. The Donors
       b. Donors' Interest in Espy's Official Acts

   (1) Methyl Bromide
       (2) Market Promotion Program
       (3) USDA Commodity Purchases
       (4) Delaney Clause
       (5) Teamsters Strike at Diamond Walnut
       (6) Forest Service Land Swap (Relating to a Douglas Consulting
       Client)

   c. Gifts Given
   (1) Gifts Given by Sun-Diamond
       (2) Gifts Facilitated by Douglas

   d. Summary Timeline

   e. False Statements to Federal Investigators

   f. Prosecution Decisions

   3. Gifts from Oglethorpe Power, Smith Barney, and EOP Group
   a. The Donors
       b. Donors' Interest in Espy's Official Acts
       c. Gifts Given
       d. Summary Timeline
       e. Prosecution Decisions

   4. Gifts From Quaker Oats
   a. The Donor
       b. Donor's Interest in Espy's Official Acts
       c. Gifts Given
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   5. Gifts From Fernbank Museum
   a. The Donor
       b. Donor's Interest in Espy's Official Acts
       c. Gifts Given
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   6. Gifts From Robert Mondavi Winery
   a. The Donor
       b. Donor's Interest in Espy's Official Acts
       c. Gifts Given
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   7. Gifts From Morgan Stanley
   a. The Donor
       b. Donor's Interest in Espy's Official Acts
       c. Gifts Given
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   8. Espy's Acceptance of Gifts Unrelated to Agriculture
   a. Inaugural Party in Espy's Honor and Event Tickets
       b. March 1994 Beverly Hills, California Trip
       c. $2,800 Monotype

   B. Espy's Concealment of Gifts Received
   1. False Statements to Federal Officials

   a. False Statements to the USDA Inspector General
       b. False Statements to the FBI
       c. False Statements to the White House Chief of Staff

   2. False Statements in Disclosure Reports

   3. After-the-Fact Reimbursements

   4. Prosecution Decisions

   C. Espy's Other Abuses of Office for Personal Benefit
   1. Abuses Related to Government Vehicles

   a. USDA Lease of Jeep Cherokee
       b. Use of USDA Ford Explorer
       c. Jeep Payments by Government Contractor
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   2. Abuses Related to Official Travel
   a. Travel Expenses Paid by Subordinates and Others
       b. The $71,000 Plane Charter to Facilitate Attendance at a Birthday
       Party
       c. Frequent Travel to Mississippi at Government Expense
       d. Prosecution Decisions

   D. The Role of Espy's Staff in Avoiding Abuses
   1. Instruction and Counseling on Ethical Matters
       2. Espy's Reliance on Staff to Prevent Ethical Lapses

   E. Henry Espy Campaign Offenses
   1. Unlawful Campaign Contributions to Obtain Access to Secretary Espy

   a. Henry Espy's Campaign Attracts the Interest of Agribusiness
       b. Crop Growers Insurance Becomes Involved in the Henry Espy
       Campaign

   (1) The USDA Role in Crop Insurance Reform Becomes Important to Crop
       Growers Insurance
       (2) Crop Growers Insurance Makes Illegal Campaign Contributions to
       Henry Espy
       (3) Crop Growers Insurance Obtains Access to Secretary Espy

   c. Henry Espy Borrows Money to Cover His Campaign Debts
   (1) Ferrouillet Arranges a Fraudulent Loan
       (2) Secretary Espy Involves Himself in Retiring the Fraudulently
       Obtained Loan

   d. The First Installment of the Loan Is Paid with Illegal Campaign
   Contributions
   (1) Douglas Solicits Illegal Campaign Contributions
       (2) Douglas Organizes the 116 Club Fundraiser
       (3) Ferrouillet Makes the First Repayment on the Delinquent Loan

   e. The Second Installment of the Loan Is Paid with an Illegal Campaign
   Contribution
   (1) Hemmingson Provides a $20,000 Contribution From Crop Growers
       Corporation
       (2) The $20,000 Check Is Laundered

   f. Ferrouillet and Henry Espy Make the Final Payments on the Loan

   2. Concealment of Campaign Offenses
   a. Crop Growers Conceals Its Illegal Campaign Contributions in Its SEC
       Filings
       b. Ferrouillet Makes False Statements to Federal Investigators

   3. AFLAC's Illegal Contributions to the Henry Espy Campaign

   4. Prosecution Decisions

   F. Other Conflicts of Interest Within the Department of Agriculture
   1. Ronald Blackley's Earlier Employment with USDA and Congressman Espy
       2. Blackley Becomes Espy's Chief of Staff
       3. Blackley's Receipt of Funds from Charles Fuller
       4. Blackley's Receipt of Funds from David Cochran
       5. Blackley's Involvement in USDA Program Fraud by Supporters of
       Espy

   a. Rodalton Hart and Hart Farms
       b. Brook Keith Mitchell, Sr. and Five M Farming Enterprises

   6. Blackley and Secretary Espy's Efforts on Behalf of Mitchell

   7. Blackley's Failure to Disclose Receipts from Agricultural Interests

   8. Petition to the Special Division

   9. Prosecution Decisions

   G. Other Matters Investigated by the Office of Independent Counsel
   1. Richard Douglas Mortgage Offenses

   a. OIC's Investigation
       b. Attorney General Referral
       c. Prosecution Decisions

   2. Irregularities in Secretary Espy's Congressional Campaign Account
   a. OIC's Investigation

   (1) The Campaign Committee's Initial Infrastructure and the Misuse of
       Funds
       (2) Congressman Espy's Knowledge of the Misuse of Funds
       (3) The House Bank Investigation
       (4) The Transition Process
       (5) White House Interest
       (6) Fraudulent Means Used to Replace Campaign Funds

   b. Petition to the Special Division

   3. Richard Blackmore's Loan Application to USDA
   a. OIC's Investigation
       b. Prosecution Decisions

   4. Thomas Espy's $3. 5 Million USDA Loan Request
   a. OIC's Investigation
       b. Prosecution Decisions

   5. Sun-Land Products' Illegal Campaign Contributions

   H. Litigation Regarding Privilege Claims Before the Grand Jury
   1. AFLAC's Attorney-Client Privilege Claim
       2. The CBS Journalists' Privilege Claim
       3. The White House's Executive Privilege Claim

   III. PROSECUTIONS, CIVIL ACTIONS, AND REFERRALS
   A. The Indictment Process
       B. Prosecutions Regarding Gifts to Secretary Espy

   1. The Tyson Foods Cases

   a. United States v. Tyson Foods, Inc.

   (1) The Charges
       (2) The Plea Agreement
       (3) The Sentence

   b. United States v. Jack L. Williams and Archibald R. Schaffer, III
   (1) The Charges - The First Indictment
       (2) The First Trial
       (3) The Order Granting a New Trial
       (4) The Charges - The Superseding Indictments
       (5) The Second Trial
       (6) Post-trial Motions
       (7) The Williams Sentence
       (8) The Schaffer Appeals
       (9) Schaffer's New-Trial Motions Following the Espy Trial
       (10) The Schaffer Sentence

   2. The Sun-Diamond Cases
   a. United States v. Sun-Diamond Growers of California

   (1) The Charges
       (2) The Trial
       (3) Sentencing
       (4) The Appeal
       (5) Postappeal Prosecution Decisions

   b. United States v. Richard Douglas
   (1) The Charges
       (2) Dismissal of False-Statement Counts
       (3) The Trial
       (4) Post-trial Dismissal
       (5) The Plea Agreement and Sentence

   c. United States v. James H. Lake
   (1) The Charges
       (2) The Plea Agreement
       (3) Sentencing
       (4) Federal Election Commission Conciliation Agreements

   3. The Case Against Former Secretary Espy - United States v. Alphonso
   Michael Espy
   a. The Charges
       b. Pre-trial Dismissals and Appeal
       c. The Trial

   C. The Henry Espy Campaign Contribution Cases
   1. The Crop Growers Case - United States v. Crop Growers Corp. , John
       J. Hemmingson, and Gary A. Black

   a. The Charges
       b. Pre-trial Dismissals
       c. Crop Growers' Plea
       d. The Trial

   2. The Henry Espy Case - United States v. Henry William Espy, Jr. ,
   Alvarez T. Ferrouillet, Ferrouillet & Ferrouillet, Municipal Healthcare
   Cooperative Incorporated, and John J. Hemmingson
   a. The Charges - Eastern District of Louisiana
       b. The Trial - Eastern District of Louisiana
       c. Sentencing - Eastern District of Louisiana
       d. The Appeal
       e. The Charges - Northern District of Mississippi
       f. Plea Agreements - Northern District of Mississippi
       g. The Trial - Northern District of Mississippi
       h. Sentencing - Northern District of Mississippi

   D. Prosecutions Regarding Conflicts of Interest within the Department
   1. The Case Against Secretary Espy's Chief of Staff - United States v.
       Ronald H. Blackley

   a. The Charges
       b. The Trial
       c. Sentencing
       d. The Appeal

   2. The "Mississippi Christmas Tree" Cases
   a. United States v. Five M Farming Enterprises, Inc. , Brook Keith
       Mitchell, Sr. , and Brook Keith Mitchell, Jr.

   (1) The Charges
       (2) Plea Agreement
       (3) Sentencing
       (4) The Appeal
       (5) Administrative Action

   b. United States v. Norris J. Faust, Jr.
   (1) The Charges
       (2) The Trial

   E. Civil Actions
   1. United States v. Smith Barney, Inc. 316

   a. The Complaint
       b. The Settlement Agreement

   2. United States v. Robert Mondavi Corp.
   a. The Complaint
       b. The Settlement Agreement

   F. Referred Cases
   1. United States v. Sun-Land Products
       2. AFLAC (Federal Election Commission)
       3. United States v. Richard E. Blackmore
       4. United States v. Rodalton Hart

   IV. THE EVOLVING LAW OF GRATUITIES
   A. Varying Interpretations of the Gratuity Statute Before Supreme Court
       Review
       B. OIC's Prosecution of Sun-Diamond
       C. The Sun-Diamond Supreme Court Decision
       D. Sun-Diamond Revisited - United States v. Schaffer
       E. The Continuing Importance of the Gratuities Laws
       F. Conflict-of-Interest Regulations
       G. The Public Servant as Trustee

   V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
   A. Financial Statement
       B. Analysis

   1. Startup Costs
       2. Duration of Activities

   a. Investigative Phase
       b. Indictment and Trial Phase
       c. Post-trial Phase
       d. Final Report and Office Closing

   C. Conclusion

   VI. CONCLUSION

   VII. CHRONOLOGY

   -- APPENDICES

   -- COMMENT LETTERS
     __________________________________________________________________

   I.   INTRODUCTION

   In 1961, with regard to proposed legislation governing the receipt of
   gratuities by government officials, President John F. Kennedy stated:

     No responsibility of government is more fundamental than the
     responsibility of maintaining the highest standards of ethical
     behavior by those who conduct the public business. There can be no
     dissent from the principle that all officials must act with
     unwavering integrity, absolute impartiality and complete devotion to
     the public interest. This principle must be followed not only in
     reality but in appearance. For the basis of effective government is
     public confidence, and that confidence is endangered when ethical
     standards falter or appear to falter.

   It is axiomatic that the Federal laws and regulations controlling the
   receipt of gifts by federal employees and officials implement a
   fundamental principle of public service - that federal officials should
   not use their public office for their own personal gain or give the
   appearance that they are not carrying out their official duties with
   complete impartiality. The public's trust in the fairness and justice
   of federal decision-making is irretrievably compromised when federal
   officials take gifts from those whose conduct they regulate and
   oversee.

   If a public official accepts a gratuity - a gift given for or because
   of an official act - it calls into question the impartiality of his
   judgment on matters that affect the giver. A public official's breach
   of legal and ethical standards - standards that prohibit the receipt of
   gifts from those whom his decisions may affect - undermines the
   confidence American citizens must have in the integrity of their
   political leaders.

   Gift-giving to a public official by those whose conduct he regulates is
   pernicious behavior in any context. In matters of public health and
   safety it is especially troubling. The United States Department of
   Agriculture is primarily responsible for the quality and safety of the
   Nation's food supply, particularly meat and poultry. In 1906, Upton
   Sinclair's famous book The Jungle illuminated the corruption of public
   meat inspectors and unsanitary conditions in the meat packing industry.
   In response, Congress established a federal meat inspection system and
   enacted one of the most stringent anti-gratuity provisions on the
   books. For nearly a century, every federal meat and poultry inspector
   has known that the Federal Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. ยง 622, signed
   into law by President Theodore Roosevelt, prohibits the receipt of all
   gifts, even such seemingly token items as a Christmas turkey. The
   safety of the American food supply, and the integrity of those who
   ensure its safety, is that important.

   But if a poultry inspector on his daily rounds is so constrained, how
   much more important is the integrity of the Secretary of Agriculture
   whose decisions have nationwide impact? As a high public official, the
   Secretary of Agriculture is obliged to perform his job in a manner that
   is free from self-enrichment, free from corruption, and free from even
   the appearance of self-enrichment and corruption. Public officials are
   trustees for the American citizenry - they owe America their honesty,
   their loyalty and their impartial service.

   Perhaps the gravest concern arising from the receipt of gratuities by
   high public officials is the uncertainty it creates in the public mind.
   Typically, nobody really knows why a public official decides a matter
   one way or another. In a 1957 review of conflicts of interest, the
   House Judiciary Committee observed:

     More troublesome than outright bribery, however, because of the
     obscurity of its motivation and the subtlety of its effect, is the
     practice of modern lobbies indiscriminately to befriend influential
     officeholders. In its sophisticated form, this activity never
     includes a request for a favor, but limits itself to the extension
     of amenities and courtesies in the form of free transportation,
     hospitality, and adjuncts to "gracious living." The sole visible
     object appears to be the establishment of the amiability of the
     lobbyist and his client.^ (1)

   This observation rings especially true when a public official is
   charged with balancing conflicting goals and duties - for example, both
   ensuring the safety of the American food supply and promoting
   agricultural business development. When a public official receives
   gifts from a regulated business and later makes a decision affecting
   that business, the American public can only speculate, from the
   outside, whether the gifts received played any role in the decision
   made. The gratuities laws are designed to eliminate that
   uncertainty - the Nation should not be left to wonder whether its chief
   food safety official made decisions based upon principle or upon
   self-interest.

   When public allegations that Secretary Espy solicited and received
   gifts from agricultural interests he regulated first arose, the
   allegations raised a justifiable concern that Espy's decisions were
   subject to improper influence. Did Espy's receipt of more than $12,000
   in gifts from Tyson Foods, Inc., the world's largest meat and poultry
   processor, affect his decision on safe poultry handling label
   regulations that would have cost Tyson more than $30 million? Was the
   more than $14,000 that Sun-Diamond Growers of California, one of
   America's largest agricultural cooperatives, spent to Espy's benefit a
   factor in his decision to support Sun-Diamond's continued use of methyl
   bromide on its crops, notwithstanding the contrary recommendation of
   the Environmental Protection Agency? The American public should not
   have to entertain these questions, but Espy's actions brought them
   front and center.

   The anti-gratuities statutes also protect those regulated entities that
   truly desire to conduct their business in an above-board, lawful
   manner. When a high public official solicits gifts from those he
   regulates, even when there is no particular decision regarding that
   business pending before him, he places the donors in an untenable
   position. Declining to provide the requested gift risks alienating the
   federal official, but giving the gift flies in the face of the public
   interest, if not the criminal law. Such was the dilemma faced by the
   president of Quaker Oats, a company with $180 million of business
   before the Department of Agriculture, when Espy (whom he had met only
   once) called him to ask for the gift of two valuable basketball
   tickets. An executive of Mondavi Winery, who was seeking to enlist
   Espy's support on a variety of issues, found himself in the same bind
   when Espy's advisor called him to ask that Espy be given some wine.

   The Office of Independent Counsel (OIC) investigated all these
   allegations relating to Espy's conduct, and all other matters related
   to its jurisdiction that arose from the investigation. In the end, it
   brought numerous indictments for unlawful gratuities, lying and
   concealment before federal agencies, fraud, and related offenses. These
   efforts resulted in 15 convictions (of which nine were concluded by
   pleas) and two successful civil prosecutions, although Espy himself was
   acquitted of all charges.

   There was, in the end, never any doubt that Espy and his family and
   friends had taken gifts of substantial value from those whom Espy
   regulated. Espy's principal defense, and the defense of those who had
   given gifts to Espy, was that the OIC could not prove that the gifts
   had been given with the intent to influence any particular, specific
   decision. Even though the evidence was ample to establish that the
   gifts were given to Espy for and because of his official position, in
   the case of Espy the jury was not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt
   that they were given for or because of a specific official act.

   At bottom, the Office's investigation illustrates the destruction of
   the public trust arising from the actions of a high public official who
   places private gain before public interest. As this Report details,
   Espy directly and indirectly received from various agriculture
   businesses gifts valued at more than $30,000; his chief of staff
   concealed payments he received under the table from his former
   agricultural clients; his girlfriend solicited and received a valuable
   scholarship, employment, and travel and entertainment; his brother
   received approximately $50,000 in illegal campaign contributions
   because he could facilitate access to the Secretary; and Espy and many
   of the donors and recipients concealed these gifts from the American
   public.

   In short, this investigation showed how our leaders can be compromised
   in their decision-making obligations and how others used unlawful means
   to influence public policy. Espy gained substantial personal benefit,
   receiving a multitude of gifts from persons and entities whose conduct
   he was supposed to impartially regulate. The donors, in return, gained
   access to Espy; the influence this gave them over his decisions can
   never be measured. The integrity of the federal decision-making
   process, the potential safety of the American food supply, and the
   American public's trust in the impartiality of government all suffered.

   A.   Summary of Investigation

   The Office of Independent Counsel's (OIC) investigation into the
   receipt of gifts and gratuities by former Agriculture Secretary
   Alphonso Michael Espy revealed a pervasive pattern of improper behavior
   by Secretary Espy and his top aide, and by persons and companies
   regulated by or with business before the United States Department of
   Agriculture (USDA). The investigation disclosed that, among other
   offenses, companies with financially important matters pending before
   USDA gave Secretary Espy - either directly or via members of his family
   or his girlfriend - numerous gifts in an effort to garner his favor. (A
   complete list of gifts OIC found Espy to have received from
   agricultural interests appears at Section II.A.)

   OIC's investigation culminated in the return of a 39-count indictment
   against Espy, charging multiple violations arising out of his
   acceptance of things of value from persons and entities regulated by
   USDA, his concealment of these gifts from the public, and other abuses
   of his office. The indictment charged that he had received more than
   $30,000 in gifts and benefits from agricultural interests. At trial,
   Espy did not dispute receipt of the gifts, but he argued that these
   gifts did not affect the decisions he made and that he did not have the
   criminal intent required for a conviction. After a two-month trial, the
   jury found former Secretary Espy not guilty on all counts.

   All told, OIC charged thirteen individuals (including Espy) and six
   business entities^ (2) with criminal violations regarding the provision
   of gifts and gratuities to the former Secretary of Agriculture, the
   concealment of gratuities from federal investigators, and/or related
   offenses. Of these, 14 were convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or
   more offenses^ (3), and four were acquitted of all charges^ (4); one
   person was placed into a pre-trial diversion program^ (5). OIC also
   instituted civil prosecutions against two corporations^ (6) and
   referred several matters to other federal enforcement agencies.^ (7)

   In addition to the gratuities given directly to Espy and his
   girlfriend, the investigation focused on election campaign
   contributions given to the account of Espy's brother, Henry Espy. The
   donors were persons and companies regulated by the Department of
   Agriculture who saw Henry Espy's campaign debt, and Secretary Espy's
   personal concern over that debt, as an avenue to gain the Secretary's
   favor. Beyond the impropriety of seeking to gain an advantage before a
   governmental agency in this manner, many of these contributions and
   related activities were substantively illegal under the election laws
   and other federal statutes. The illegal contributions exceeded $50,000.
   Consequently, this area of the investigation resulted in several
   prosecutions and convictions.

   The investigation further disclosed that Secretary Espy's chief of
   staff, Ronald Blackley, accepted money from persons with business
   before USDA and concealed this fact from the public, and that
   Mississippi farmers with ties to Secretary Espy defrauded USDA of
   federal subsidies. This part of the investigation resulted in criminal
   convictions of Blackley and several persons and one corporation he had
   represented.

   OIC's investigation led to a number of significant prosecutions. The
   investigation of Crop Growers Corporation, then the second-largest
   private seller of federal multi-peril crop insurance, led to the first
   indictment and conviction in an Independent Counsel proceeding of a
   publicly-held company and resulted in the largest fine, $2 million,
   secured by any Independent Counsel up to the time. OIC's prosecution of
   John J. Hemmingson, Crop Growers' chief executive officer, and Alvarez
   T. Ferrouillet, a Louisiana lawyer who chaired an effort to retire the
   congressional-campaign debt of Secretary Espy's brother Henry, was the
   first to charge and convict individuals for money laundering in
   connection with illegal federal-election campaign contributions. OIC's
   investigation later led to the first conviction in approximately 100
   years for giving a gratuity to a sitting Cabinet member, with the
   guilty plea of Tyson Foods, Inc., the nation's leading poultry
   producer. The plea resulted in a $4 million criminal fine and a $2
   million payment toward OIC's investigative costs. The prosecution of
   Sun-Diamond Growers of California, a large, multi-crop agricultural
   cooperative, resulted in a Supreme Court decision clarifying the scope
   of the federal gratuities statute. The civil actions OIC brought
   against Smith Barney, Inc. and Robert Mondavi Corporation, Inc. were
   apparently the first instances in which an Independent Counsel resolved
   charges through civil litigation.

   In total, OIC collected more than $10 million in criminal fines, civil
   recoveries, and restitutionary orders for the United States Treasury.
   OIC also referred three matters to the Department of Justice for
   prosecution and one matter to the Federal Election Commission for civil
   disposition, resulting in the recovery of an additional $560,000 for
   the United States.

   B.   Background Information

   The focus of the investigation was Secretary Espy, and the setting in
   which he was scrutinized was the Department of Agriculture. The
   following briefly sets forth pertinent background information regarding
   both.

   1.   The United States Department of Agriculture

   The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), founded in 1862,
   became a Cabinet-level department in 1889. The duties of USDA include
   the regulation and inspection of the United States food supply, the
   improvement and promotion of agricultural development and production in
   the United States, and the promotion of United States agricultural
   products in foreign countries. In 1993, USDA consisted of more than 43
   different agencies and subagencies,^ (8) and had an annual operating
   budget in excess of $65 billion, representing 4.3 percent of the total
   federal budget. Its payroll of more than 112,000 staff employees was
   exceeded only by four other federal agencies (the Departments of
   Defense, Health and Human Services, Treasury, and the Veterans
   Administration). USDA has offices or committees in nearly every county
   in the United States and personnel stationed around the world.

   The USDA departments of particular relevance to the Independent
   Counsel's investigation were the following:

     The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS): FSIS, the
     public-health agency within USDA, is responsible for ensuring that
     the nation's commercial supply of meat, poultry, and egg products is
     safe and correctly labeled and packaged. It inspects all raw beef,
     pork, lamb, chicken, and turkey sold in interstate and foreign
     commerce, and it regulates production and distribution to ensure
     compliance with applicable laws and regulations. It also provides
     laboratory-analysis services to inspect samples of meat and poultry
     products for disease, contamination, or other forms of adulteration.

     The Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS): AMS directs and monitors a
     range of activities in the areas of commodity promotion, market
     news, agricultural transportation, and product inspection and
     grading; it also procures food for domestic food-distribution
     programs. AMS further acts to divert commodities or food products
     from normal channels of commercial trade to relieve market
     surpluses, primarily through government purchases, whenever the
     Secretary of Agriculture determines such a diversion is necessary.

     The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC): FCIC, in cooperation
     with various private insurance agencies, provides farmers and
     ranchers federally subsidized crop insurance to protect against crop
     loss resulting from floods, drought and other natural disasters.

     The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS): ASCS
     administers farm price support programs and conservation
     cost-sharing programs.

   The Secretary of Agriculture, appointed by the President and confirmed
   by the Senate, administers USDA. The Secretary is ninth in line of
   succession to the Presidency.

   2.   Alphonso Michael Espy

   In late 1992, President-elect Clinton chose Alphonso Michael Espy, a
   Mississippi Congressman, to serve as the Secretary of Agriculture in
   his administration.

   a.   Biographical Information

   Espy was born November 30, 1953 in Yazoo City, Mississippi, a town
   located in the Mississippi Delta. His grandfather had founded a chain
   of more than two dozen funeral homes; his father had worked as a USDA
   county extension agent in Arkansas during the 1930s and 1940s and had
   later joined the family funeral-home business in Mississippi. Espy
   graduated from Yazoo City High School and earned a B.A. degree in
   political science from Howard University in Washington, D.C. in 1975.
   In 1978, he received a law degree from University of Santa Clara Law
   School, near San Jose, California.

   Upon graduating from law school, Espy returned to Mississippi, where he
   obtained an appointment as the managing attorney at Central Mississippi
   Legal Services. In 1980, Espy became an Assistant Secretary of State
   and Director of the Mississippi Public Lands Division, a position he
   held for the next four years. From 1984 to 1985, Espy served in the
   Mississippi Attorney General's office as an Assistant Attorney General
   in the Consumer Protection Division.

   In 1983, Espy first entered the political arena as coordinator in
   Mississippi's Second Congressional District for a candidate for
   Attorney General. The following year, Espy served on the Democratic
   National Committee's Rules Committee. In 1986, Espy ran for Congress in
   Mississippi's Second Congressional District.

   The Second Congressional District of Mississippi, geographically one of
   the larger districts in the United States, is primarily rural, and
   agriculture is its main industry. The district borders the Mississippi
   River and is approximately 275 miles long and up to 180 miles wide. It
   has an estimated population of just under 500,000.

   Running on a campaign of reform, Espy defeated two-term incumbent
   Republican Congressman Webb Franklin by a margin of 52 percent to 48
   percent and became Mississippi's first black congressman since
   Reconstruction. Espy was reelected three times, soundly defeating his
   opponents in the 1988, 1990 and 1992 elections. In the House of
   Representatives, Espy served as a member of the House Agriculture
   Committee, the House Select Committee on Hunger, and the Budget
   Committee. He also served with then-Governor William Jefferson Clinton
   of Arkansas on the Lower Mississippi Economic Delta Commission and on
   the Democratic Leadership Council.

   Espy was an early supporter of Arkansas Governor Clinton in his
   successful 1992 presidential bid. Following the November elections,
   Espy actively sought the Cabinet position of Secretary of Agriculture,
   and he eventually obtained the approval of President-elect Clinton.
   After his confirmation by the Senate, Espy resigned from Congress and
   was sworn in as Agriculture Secretary on January 22, 1993.

   A divorced father of two, Espy dated Patricia S. Dempsey, an
   administrative assistant for an accounting firm in Georgetown and
   subsequently for the D.C. Aids Education and Training Center in
   Washington, D.C., throughout his term as Secretary of Agriculture.
   Dempsey met Congressman Espy through a mutual friend, and the two began
   dating in February 1992. Dempsey and Espy lived together for most of
   the period from October 1992 through June of 1993 and shared some
   expenses, as well as an American Express Card account. Dempsey and Espy
   continued to date until November of 1995, at which time their
   relationship apparently ended. Dempsey became a focal point for several
   matters investigated by OIC, as she was the recipient of gifts and a
   scholarship from entities regulated by USDA. For a time she worked for
   a consulting firm lobbying Espy on a variety of issues, and in that
   position she intervened with Espy's staff on several occasions.

   Analysis of Espy's financial documents revealed that his annual
   expenses increased more than his income after he left Congress to
   become Secretary of Agriculture. Although his total income rose from
   $96,068 in 1992 to $100,172 in 1993, certain of his expenses,
   particularly credit card and consumer-loan payments, increased by
   nearly $30,000 in 1993. In addition, Espy's total debt rose from nearly
   $300,000 at the end of 1992 to almost $400,000 at the end of 1993 as
   the result of increased mortgage loans, unsecured loans, and credit
   card debts. Thus, the things of value he received from agricultural
   interests could well have been beyond his means had he been personally
   obligated to pay for them with his own resources.

   b.   Secretary Espy's Knowledge of Ethical Constraints

   As a Congressman, Espy had been subject to federal rules and laws
   prohibiting the receipt of gifts in certain circumstances. Although
   these rules became more restrictive during his tenure in Congress, they
   were always more lenient than those imposed on the Executive Branch.
   When Espy entered Congress, the applicable ethics rules allowed members
   to receive gifts valued up to $100 per year from each person having a
   direct interest in legislation before Congress. The rules allowed
   outside sources to pay for travel, food, and lodging for a member,
   spouse, his dependants if the congressman "substantially participated"
   in an event. Members also were permitted to receive honoraria up to
   $2,000 per event for speaking engagements. However, many of the
   congressional rules changed effective January 1, 1991, when bans on
   honoraria, the solicitation of things of value from "prohibited
   sources," and the acceptance of things of value from prohibited
   sources, with certain specified exceptions, took effect.

   Almost immediately upon his selection as Secretary of Agriculture, Espy
   received a variety of memoranda designed to make him aware of the
   ethical regulations that applied to his new position in the executive
   branch. Specifically, he received materials regarding the prohibitions
   against gifts to public officials and the requirements regarding
   financial disclosure.

   For example, on December 29, 1992, within one week of his nomination to
   the post of Secretary of Agriculture, Espy received a memorandum from
   Vice President-elect Albert Gore's chief of staff summarizing the
   federal ethics rules. The memorandum informed incoming administration
   officials that the ethics rules required financial disclosure through
   annual financial disclosure reports (government form SF-278) and that
   the rules forbade acceptance of gifts from prohibited sources, with a
   few exceptions (such as gifts under $20). On the same date, Espy also
   received a memorandum from the transition counsel specifically
   regarding inaugural events and gifts. The memorandum warned:

     As the Inaugural approaches, it is important that presidential
     designees be aware of the federal rules governing the receipt of
     gifts by executive branch employees - including attendance at
     receptions, parties and other events.

   Additionally, on January 22, 1993, the day Espy was sworn in as
   Secretary of Agriculture, a personnel assistant at USDA gave him a copy
   of the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive
   Branch and told him that "it was a book he should read." The document
   stated the ethical regulations regarding the receipt of gifts by
   executive-branch officials. These rules generally forbade the
   acceptance of things of value from prohibited sources, except for gifts
   of less than $20 value, gifts given solely out of friendship, and other
   minor exceptions. The rules defined a "prohibited source" as any person
   or organization that seeks official action by, does business with, or
   is regulated by a federal employee's agency, or that has interests that
   may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of
   the employee's official duties.

   Espy does not appear to have considered the executive branch's ethical
   restraints significant. On an April 2, 1993 plane flight, for example,
   Espy discussed the executive branch's ethical restraints with
   Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Carol Browner. Secretary
   Espy stated (in Administrator Browner's words) that he thought the
   tougher ethical standards put in place by the Clinton administration
   were "a bunch of junk" and that, in ethics matters, he was going to
   conduct himself as he had in Congress.

   C.   Initial Allegations and Investigations

   Allegations of Espy's official improprieties first appeared in a March
   17, 1994 Wall Street Journal article entitled "Tyson Foods, With a
   Friend in the White House, Gets Gentle Treatment From Agricultural
   Agency."^ (9) Tyson Foods, Inc., the nation's largest poultry producer
   and also a pork and beef processor, is based in Arkansas, the home
   state of President Clinton. Exploring the apparent close ties between
   Tyson Foods and President Clinton, the article reported that the
   company was a major Clinton supporter, having flown him on its
   aircraft and contributed to his gubernatorial campaigns. Further,
   according to the article, President Clinton had received $22,000 for
   his presidential campaign from Tyson Foods executives and board
   members. The article also alleged that Tyson Foods had received very
   favorable treatment from Clinton during his tenure as Governor of
   Arkansas.

   With regard to USDA, the article first noted that Don Tyson, chairman
   of Tyson Foods, had recently entertained Patricia Jensen, an Assistant
   Secretary of USDA, in his skybox at the University of Arkansas in
   Fayetteville during a college basketball game. The article quoted
   Jensen, who was under consideration to become the USDA official in
   charge of meat and poultry inspection, as saying that she felt she was
   being "looked over" by Tyson.

   The article then disclosed that Espy "acknowledged meeting with Tyson
   Foods lobbyists 'all the time,'" that Tyson Foods earlier in 1994 had
   feted Espy at a Dallas Cowboys football game, and that company
   executives had contributed $4,000 to Espy's brother's unsuccessful
   campaign for Congress. At the same time, the article alleged, Tyson
   Foods was enjoying very favorable treatment from USDA in several
   aspects of USDA's regulation of poultry and meat: "Few corporations in
   America have stronger personal ties to Bill Clinton than Arkansas-based
   Tyson Foods, Inc., and few have fared better in their dealings with his
   Agriculture Department."

   The Wall Street Journal article specifically mentioned that a USDA
   "blitz" of surprise sanitation inspections of meat-packing facilities
   over the previous year had bypassed chicken processors, including Tyson
   Foods' 66 plants. It also reported that USDA had favored Tyson Foods'
   position in a dispute over a California regulation regarding whether to
   permit poultry frozen at or above zero degrees Fahrenheit to be labeled
   "fresh." The article added that Espy had ordered USDA employees working
   on a "zero tolerance" fecal-matter policy for chicken processing
   (similar to one he had partially imposed for red meat), to drop the
   initiative and turn over their work, including information on
   computers, to an Espy aide.

   1.   Investigation by the Office of Inspector General, USDA

   The Wall Street Journal article caught the attention of USDA's Office
   of Inspector General (OIG). OIG is a separate agency within USDA
   charged with preventing and detecting fraud and abuse in USDA programs
   and operations and providing security protection for the Secretary and
   Deputy Secretary. OIG investigates alleged or suspected violations of
   federal criminal law relating to the employees, programs and operations
   of USDA and may refer matters to the Department of Justice (DOJ). OIG
   is headed by the Inspector General, who reports directly to the
   Secretary of Agriculture.

   The article prompted OIG to interview Assistant Secretary Jensen on
   March 21, 1994. Jensen was responsible for USDA's Marketing and
   Inspection Services, which included the Food Safety and Inspection
   Service (FSIS). She was prohibited by federal law (21 U.S.C. ยง 622)
   from receiving gifts from a firm regulated under the Federal Meat
   Inspection Act, such as Tyson Foods.

   Jensen informed OIG agents that she met Jack Williams, a consultant for
   Tyson Foods and the Mid-American Dairymen Association (MADA), in late
   1993. At Williams's invitation, she traveled on January 31, 1994 to
   Kansas City, Missouri to address MADA and, the next day, to
   Fayetteville to visit Tyson Foods. Jensen said that, while in
   Fayetteville, she attended a basketball game between the University of
   Arkansas and Vanderbilt University, using a ticket that Archibald
   Schaffer, Tyson Foods' director of Media, Public and Governmental
   Affairs provided to her through Williams. At the game, she met Don
   Tyson and, after a brief conversation, sat at the front of Tyson Foods'
   skybox to watch the game. Jensen said she insisted on paying for the
   ticket, and ultimately mailed a personal check to Williams for $13, the
   value of the ticket according to Williams.

   Jensen said that, on the morning after the game, she gave a speech to
   representatives of the Arkansas Poultry Federation and toured Tyson
   Foods' facilities. She then flew to Nashville, Tennessee, where she met
   up with Williams, who obtained their boarding passes for the flight to
   Washington, D.C. She received an upgrade to first class on the flight
   and sat next to Williams. She assumed Williams arranged her upgrade
   through a frequent-flyer program but was unclear about the details.

   On March 22, 1994, the day after their interview with Jensen, OIG
   agents interviewed Williams. Williams said he represented issues before
   governmental agencies and Congress as a lobbyist for various industrial
   clients, including Tyson Foods. He then confirmed that he gave Jensen a
   ticket to the basketball game in Fayetteville and provided her upgrade
   to first class on the flight from Nashville to Washington, D.C., using
   his frequent-flyer upgrade stickers. Williams said that Jensen sent a
   check to him as reimbursement for the basketball game and that he
   endorsed the check to Tyson Foods. Williams stated that he offered to
   upgrade Jensen as a token of his goodwill, not as a bribe, and that in
   his view the "stickers" had no real value to him. He said he did not
   submit an invoice to Tyson Foods for the cost of the upgrade.

   OIG Agents asked Williams if he knew anything about Espy attending a
   Dallas Cowboys football game with Don Tyson (an incident that had been
   reported in the Wall Street Journal article). Williams replied that he
   did not know whether Espy had gone to Dallas and attended a football
   game, except for what he had heard through rumor and news reports.^
   (10)

   On March 22, 1994, on the basis of the information provided by Jensen
   and Williams, OIG formally opened an investigation regarding
   "Gratuities to USDA officials by Tyson Foods, Inc., Springdale, AR." As
   to the allegations regarding Tyson Foods providing football tickets to
   Espy, OIG concluded that any substantial investigation of Espy should
   be handled by DOJ and therefore did not open a formal investigation
   into this matter. OIG agents decided, however, to meet with Espy to
   question him generally about the items raised in the Wall Street
   Journal article, to determine if there was a basis to refer the matter
   to DOJ.

   On March 22, 1994, OIG informed USDA Counsel and Deputy Secretary
   Richard Rominger of its need to meet with Espy to discuss the Wall
   Street Journal allegations at a mutually convenient time. Two days
   later, OIG informed DOJ's Public Integrity Section of the status of its
   investigation of Jensen and of its intention to interview Espy. DOJ
   suggested some questions to ask Espy.

   On April 1, 1994, OIG agents interviewed Espy in his office. The agents
   first informed Espy of the status of the Jensen investigation and then
   asked him about the Dallas football game that the Wall Street Journal
   article had reported. Espy said that a week of official travel
   concluded on Friday, January 14, 1994, in Lubbock, Texas. The USDA
   personnel traveling with him returned to Washington, but Espy remained
   in Texas for the weekend. Espy stated that he paid for his own hotel
   and meals and that on Sunday, January 16, 1994, he attended the Dallas
   Cowboys-Green Bay Packers playoff game at Texas Stadium. Espy
   acknowledged that Tyson Foods provided him with a skybox ticket and
   that he watched the game from its skybox, but he said nothing about his
   girlfriend meeting him in Dallas and accompanying him to the game as a
   guest of Tyson Foods.^ (11)

   Espy further stated that after his office received an inquiry from a
   reporter for The Wall Street Journal regarding the game, he asked one
   of his assistants to determine the value of his ticket. The day after
   The Wall Street Journal printed the article reporting his attendance at
   the game, Espy reimbursed Tyson Foods $68 for the cost of his ticket.

   After the discussion of the Dallas trip, the agents asked Espy if he
   had received any other tickets or things of value from outside sources.
   Espy stated he was limiting his response to his acceptance of things
   from Tyson Foods. He said that in late spring 1993, after speaking at
   two graduation ceremonies in Mississippi, he traveled to Arkansas,
   where he spoke to the Arkansas Poultry Federation, and then traveled to
   a Tyson Foods management training center in Russellville, Arkansas,
   where he had dinner and stayed the night. Espy explained that he
   received a call the next day from the White House requesting his
   presence at a dinner being held for the Cabinet, and that because there
   were no available airline facilities Tyson Foods flew him back to
   Washington National Airport in its corporate jet. Espy stated that he
   had USDA reimburse Tyson Foods for the lodging and the equivalent of a
   first-class fare for the jet. Espy did not identify anyone else as
   accompanying him to Russellville.

   During the April 1, 1994 interview, Espy consulted certain documents
   which he did not show the OIG agents and which the agents presumed were
   official USDA trip itineraries. Espy was asked to provide copies of all
   itineraries in support of the two trips discussed, and Espy agreed. The
   agents informed Espy that they would prepare a memorandum following the
   interview and forward it to DOJ and that the information he provided
   would be enclosed with the memorandum. A week later, OIG agents
   received the itineraries from Espy's office. As the agents had not seen
   the original itineraries, they were unaware that Espy had directed his
   staff to redact the copies provided to exclude all references to Tyson
   Foods and Espy's girlfriend.^ (12)

   On April 19, 1994, OIG's Assistant Inspector General for investigations
   formally referred to DOJ both the Jensen investigation and the Espy
   inquiry. The referral relayed the relevant facts and the information
   provided by Espy and stated in pertinent part:

     We are asking that you determine whether the Federal Meat Inspection
     Act is applicable to the actions of these two officials. We also
     understand that even if you find that the act is not applicable, the
     conduct may fall under the Standards of Ethical Conduct for
     Employees of the Executive Branch (5 C.F.R. 2635). Thus, we believe
     that these public integrity questions involving two of the highest
     officials of this Department can only be resolved with your prompt
     guidance and advice.

   2.   Investigation by the Department of Justice

   On April 25, 1994, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), under the
   direction of DOJ's Public Integrity Section, initiated an investigation
   into the matters OIG had referred. The investigation differed from a
   typical Department of Justice investigation. It was narrowly focused,
   compulsory process was not used to obtain documents and testimony, and
   agents were specifically instructed to limit their inquiries. The
   Public Integrity lawyers instructed the agents to be concerned only
   about the "receipt of tickets." There was no apparent reason for so
   limiting the investigation and for not invoking normal investigative
   techniques and procedures. The Independent Counsel Statute, which
   limits the scope of preliminary DOJ inquiries, in particular
   prohibiting the use of compulsory process, was not then in effect, but
   DOJ nevertheless adhered to the statute's restrictions.^ (13)

   The FBI interviewed approximately 50 persons, including Espy, Williams,
   Espy's girlfriend, Patricia Dempsey, and numerous witnesses from USDA,
   Tyson Foods, and other agricultural interests. Information gathered
   during these interviews confirmed that Tyson Foods had provided Espy
   and Dempsey with tickets and limousine service to attend the 1994
   Dallas Cowboys-Green Bay Packers playoff game. Witnesses further
   confirmed that Espy, with Dempsey, had attended a party at the Tyson
   Foods management training center in Russellville, Arkansas and had
   flown back to Washington, D.C. on a Tyson Foods aircraft in late Spring
   1993.

   The DOJ investigation also uncovered new information. Credible evidence
   suggested that Espy had accepted other, previously undisclosed gifts.
   These included tickets to the 1993 National Football League Super Bowl
   championship game in Atlanta, Georgia; tickets to a 1993 National
   Basketball Association finals game in Chicago, Illinois; tickets to the
   1994 Academy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles, California; and a $500
   contribution to a 1993 birthday party for Espy.

   FBI agents also heard assertions by senior USDA officials at FSIS, the
   agency responsible for food safety and inspection, that they had been
   ordered in March 1993 to stop working on the "zero tolerance"
   inspection system for poultry they had been developing and to destroy
   all work produced to date on the matter. The two members of Espy's
   immediate staff who purportedly delivered the halt order, Counselor to
   the Secretary Kimberly Schnoor and Chief of Staff Ronald Blackley, told
   agents that they did not issue such an order.

   The FBI and DOJ disagreed sharply on the handling of the additional
   matters disclosed in the course of the investigation. Some FBI agents
   complained about restraints placed upon them by DOJ Public Integrity
   attorneys; they wanted authority to conduct a broader investigation
   into whether Espy received gifts from entities other than Tyson Foods
   and to pursue the "zero tolerance" issue. Internal DOJ memoranda state
   that, at a June 7, 1994 meeting between DOJ and FBI, Public Integrity
   lawyers wanted to complete the investigation as to "all known gifts"
   and decline further inquiry. FBI agents wanted to keep the case open
   while they continued to investigate what they believed to be evidence
   of additional gifts from other sources.

   The outcome was that DOJ authorized the FBI to conduct limited
   inquiries for three more days. These limitations on breadth and time
   limited the FBI's ability to examine and evaluate the facts fully and
   increased the likelihood that false statements Espy and others made to
   investigators would paint a distorted view of the facts.^ (14)

   The Public Integrity Section subsequently closed the investigation,
   despite the FBI's confirmation that Secretary Espy had received several
   things of value, and despite open questions surrounding other gifts and
   the order to FSIS to halt work on its "zero tolerance" plan. In a
   memorandum to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, dated
   June 24, 1994, the DOJ Public Integrity Chief declined prosecution of
   Espy for his receipt of gifts from Tyson Foods, stating in part:

     I hereby decline prosecution and close the investigation of
     Secretary of Agriculture Mike Espy for violating the bribe/gift
     provision of the Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. ยง 622. . . .
     Secretary Espy did violate the statute. However, in light of the de
     minimis nature of the violation; the disproportionality of the
     mandatory minimum sentence required by the statute as applied to
     this activity; and my firm belief that no amount of further
     investigation will make this case more likely than not to result in
     a conviction, I have decided to decline. . . .

   Public Integrity's decision to close the investigation was reversed by
   the then Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, on June 30,
   1994. In a memorandum to the file, she expressed concern that DOJ would
   decline at a time when the reauthorization of the Independent Counsel
   Act had been passed by Congress and was awaiting the President's
   review. However, neither Public Integrity nor any other arm of DOJ
   conducted any further investigation. Instead, the Attorney General
   chose to seek the appointment of an Independent Counsel when the
   Independent Counsel Statute was reenacted effective June 30, 1994.^
   (15)

   3.   The Attorney General's Application for Appointment of an
   Independent Counsel

   The Independent Counsel Statute, 28 U.S.C. ยง 591 et seq., provided
   special procedures for the investigation of certain top executive
   officials (including Cabinet members such as the Secretary of
   Agriculture), presidential campaign committee officers, and, in certain
   circumstances, members of Congress. It specified the circumstances
   under which the Attorney General would conduct preliminary
   investigations of these persons and, when appropriate, seek the
   appointment of an Independent Counsel to investigate their actions.

   The Statute's first enactment in 1978, and its subsequent reenactments,
   contained a "sunset" provision that provided for its expiration after
   five years. After the statute expired in December 1992, Congress did
   not reenact it until June 1994. The Clinton administration supported
   renewal of the statute; Congress held hearings in 1993 but was unable
   to reach agreement. In May 1994, the Senate passed an Independent
   Counsel Statute that paralleled previous Independent Counsel Statutes,
   with certain modifications (e.g., extending the statute to cover
   Congress and imposing various fiscal controls on an Independent
   Counsel). The House passed the bill on June 21, 1994. President Clinton
   signed the legislation into law on June 30, 1994 and stated:

     Regrettably, the statute was permitted to lapse when its
     reauthorization became mired in a partisan dispute in the Congress.
     In fact, the IC [independent counsel] statute has been in the past
     and is today a force for governmental integrity and public
     confidence.

   On August 8, 1994, Attorney General Janet Reno filed an application for
   the appointment of an Independent Counsel to investigate Secretary Espy
   with the division of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
   Circuit for the purpose of appointing Independent Counsels (Special
   Division).^ (16) The application requested appointment of an
   Independent Counsel with authority to investigate whether "any
   violations of federal criminal laws were committed by Secretary of
   Agriculture Alphonso Michael (Mike) Espy, and to determine whether
   prosecution is warranted." After noting that the source of the
   allegations against Espy was the press report of March 17, 1994, the
   application stated:

     Investigation developed evidence that Secretary Espy accepted gifts
     from Tyson Foods in the course of two separate trips, one to
     Arkansas in May 1993 and one to Texas in January 1994. The gifts
     fall into the categories of entertainment, transportation, lodging
     and meals. In total, the gifts amount to at least several hundred
     dollars in value.

     In addition to the alleged gifts from Tyson Foods, the Department's
     investigation also included preliminary reviews of other instances
     in which Secretary Espy allegedly received gifts from organizations
     and individuals with business pending before the Department of
     Agriculture.

   In the application, the Attorney General specifically identified two
   applicable criminal statutes: the Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C.
   ยง 622,^(17) and the gratuities statute, 18 U.S.C. ยง 201(c).^ (18) With
   regard to the former, she wrote:

     Section 622 is a strict anti-gratuity statute which prohibits any
     Department of Agriculture employee or officer with responsibilities
     under the Meat Inspection Act from accepting any gift from any
     person engaged in commerce, without regard to the intent of the
     donor or the donee. . . . [T]he acceptance of non-trivial gifts of
     entertainment, transportation, lodging and meals by a Department of
     Agriculture official who has responsibilities under the Meat
     Inspection Act, from an entity that is subject to regulation by the
     Department of Agriculture, falls within the purview of the statute.

   As to the gratuities statute, 18 U.S.C. ยง 201(c), she wrote that it:

     requires proof that a gift was given for or because of official
     acts. No evidence has been developed during the investigation
     suggesting that Secretary Espy accepted the gifts as a reward for,
     or in expectation of, his performance of official acts.

   The Attorney General recommended that the Division grant the
   Independent Counsel broad jurisdiction that extended not only to Espy's
   acts but also to violations of any federal law by any organization or
   individual developed during the Independent Counsel's investigation and
   connected with or arising out of that investigation.^ (19)

   4.   White House Inquiry

   On August 10, 1994, two days after the Attorney General made her
   application to the Special Division, the White House publicly announced
   that it would ask the Office of Government Ethics to conduct an inquiry
   into the allegations of Espy's misconduct. Instead of requesting an
   Office of Government Ethics investigation, White House Chief of Staff
   Leon Panetta asked White House Counsel Lloyd Cutler to conduct an
   inquiry.

   Panetta later testified that the purpose of the White House Counsel's
   inquiry was not to establish whether Espy had committed criminal or
   ethical violations but to provide information to the White House about
   whether Espy had engaged in conduct that might create an appearance of
   impropriety and violate the standards for the Cabinet established by
   the White House. Panetta stated that he gave periodic reports of the
   White House Counsel's inquiry directly to President Clinton.

   The White House Counsel conducted little, if any, independent
   investigation of the facts. He relied primarily on press reports to
   define the scope of inquiry and on Espy's lawyers to establish the
   facts. Espy's counsel asserted to White House Counsel that the
   allegations of wrongdoing were baseless, principally on the theory that
   Espy had reimbursed many of the gifts after public disclosure and had
   not performed any favors for the gift-givers.

   The White House soon became aware of allegations concerning Espy's
   personal use of a USDA-leased Jeep in Mississippi and his girlfriend's
   receipt of a scholarship from Tyson Foods. As the White House had not
   previously been aware of these two matters, Panetta informed Espy he
   wanted to discuss them.

   On Friday, September 30, 1994, Panetta asked Espy to meet him in the
   Chief of Staff's office at the White House. Those present included
   Panetta, Espy, Espy's personal counsel, and the new White House Counsel
   Abner Mikva. Panetta confronted Espy with the allegations regarding
   Dempsey's scholarship from Tyson Foods. Espy told Panetta that he was
   aware Dempsey had received the scholarship, that she had mentioned it
   to him at the time, and that, although he had expressed some concern
   about it, no steps had been taken either to decline the scholarship or
   to pay it back to Tyson Foods. Espy further told Panetta that Dempsey
   did not compete in any way for the scholarship and that he understood a
   Washington, D.C. lobbyist for Tyson Foods had arranged it.

   Panetta asked Espy about the Jeep that Espy had leased while in
   Congress and for which USDA had since assumed the lease payments.
   Panetta was concerned that there was no apparent connection between the
   use of the vehicle in Mississippi and USDA business. Espy answered
   that, although it was located in his old congressional district, he was
   using the vehicle for purposes related to his duties as Secretary of
   Agriculture. Espy also stated that he had approval of USDA counsel for
   that use. Espy did not disclose to Panetta that he had represented to
   USDA counsel that the Jeep was to be used only in the Washington, D.C.
   area, and that counsel had approved its use in Washington, D.C. solely
   in lieu of a chauffeured limousine.

   Panetta asked Espy whether there were any other matters about which the
   White House should be concerned. Espy responded that there were not.

   Panetta considered Espy's responses with respect to the scholarship and
   the Jeep inadequate and told Espy that he would expect Espy to resign
   on the following Monday morning. Panetta and White House Counsel Mikva
   then went immediately to President Clinton, informed him of what they
   had learned in the meeting, and told him they recommended that Espy
   resign. The President concurred in the recommendation. On October 3,
   1994, Espy submitted his resignation to the President, effective
   December 31, 1994.

   On October 11, 1994, Mikva submitted a report on the Espy inquiry to
   the President. The report indicated that the President had asked Mikva
   to examine two questions in light of the Standards of Conduct for
   Employees of the Executive Branch, 5 C.F.R. Part 2635: "(1) whether the
   President should direct that any further action be taken with respect
   to Secretary Espy's conduct; and (2) what actions should be taken to
   ensure that similar incidents are avoided by other Members of the
   Cabinet." The report reviewed the applicable ethical regulations and
   recounted White House Counsel's understanding of the background facts
   related to Espy's conduct. Although the report purported to be a
   "review of these matters under the Standards of Conduct," it did not
   reach any conclusions regarding whether Espy had violated any of those
   standards. It stated that in light of Espy's resignation (effective
   December 31, 1994), his recusal from meat and poultry issues for the
   two months remaining in his tenure, his reimbursement for the things of
   value he had received, and the institution of further methods to review
   his travel, the White House Counsel felt that no further actions should
   be taken at that time.

   5.   Allegations of Additional Improprieties

   At about the same time that the Special Division was considering the
   Attorney General's request for the appointment of an Independent
   Counsel and that White House Counsel was investigating Espy, the press
   began to report a series of new allegations against the Secretary, many
   of which would ultimately be examined by the Independent Counsel. The
   following table summarizes the major publicly-reported events that OIC
   investigated:


   Date Publication Allegation
   August 7, 1994 Chicago Star Tribune Espy solicited a ticket for a
   Chicago Bulls playoff game from the President of Quaker Oats. (See
   discussion at Section II.A.4.)
   August 7, 1994 Des Moines Register Sun-Diamond executive threw a lavish
   party for Espy. (See discussion at Section II.C.2.b.)
   August 19, 1994 New York Times Agricultural interests hosted a
   fundraiser to help Espy's brother Henry retire his campaign debt. (See
   discussion at Section II.E.1.d.(2).)
   August 24, 1994 Associated Press Espy received tickets to the 1994
   Super Bowl from the Fernbank Museum in Atlanta. (See discussion at
   Section II.A.5.)
   August 27, 1994 Atlanta Journal-Constitution Espy's brother Henry had
   applied for, but was refused, a $3.5 million USDA loan guarantee. (See
   discussion at Section II.G.4.)
   September 6, 1994 Los Angeles Times Espy showed favoritism toward
   Richard Douglas, an old friend who was an executive at Sun-Diamond
   Growers. (See discussion at Section II.A.2.)
   September 12, 1994 Wall Street Journal Espy's Chief of Staff Ronald
   Blackley intervened in subsidy applications by former clients and Espy
   campaign contributors (See discussion at Section II.F.)
   September 16, 1994 Washington Post Espy met with Oglethorpe Power
   regarding Treasury's rejection of its plan to pay off a federal loan,
   shortly after Oglethorpe's consulting firm, EOP Group, hired Patricia
   Dempsey, Espy's girlfriend. (See discussion at Section II.A.3.)
   September 17, 1994 Los Angeles Times Espy made 20 government-paid trips
   to his home state of Mississippi in his first 20 months in office, many
   with light official duties. (See discussion at Section II.C.2.c.)
   September 19, 1994 Newsweek Investigators were looking into eight
   contacts between Espy and Tyson Foods, including one shortly before
   USDA officials said they were told to destroy documents on new
   regulations opposed by the poultry industry. (See discussion at Section
   II.A.1.b.)
   September 19, 1994 Associated Press Espy kept a government-leased Jeep
   in Mississippi and used it for personal transportation (See discussion
   at Section II.C.1.a.)
   September 21, 1994 Associated Press Espy had begun reimbursing donors
   for benefits they had given him. (See discussion at Section II.B.3.)

                 6.   Appointment of the Independent Counsel

   On September 9, 1994, thirty days after the Attorney General filed her
     application for appointment of an Independent Counsel, the Special
      Division appointed Donald C. Smaltz to the position. Smaltz was a
      57-year-old California trial lawyer who had begun his career as a
   federal prosecutor, first in the United States Army, where he served as
       Captain in the Judge Advocate General's Corps, and later as an
   Assistant United States Attorney and Special United States Attorney in
   Los Angeles, California. He had been in private practice for 30 years,
       specializing in white-collar criminal defense and complex civil
                              litigation.^ (20)

     One week after the Independent Counsel was appointed, Espy issued a
    press release explaining that he had been an extremely busy Secretary
       with an "impressive record of accomplishments." He said he was
   releasing his travel schedules, news stories, speeches and a variety of
       other materials to provide a detailed account of his "official
    activities" while Secretary of Agriculture. Acknowledging that he may
     have been "inattentive" to the appearance of impropriety, he flatly
   asserted that he had "not violated any laws or ethics regulations" and
   had "cooperated fully with the USDA's Inspector General, [and] with the
                                 FBI."^ (21)

    Part of the Special Division's function is to specify an Independent
    Counsel's jurisdiction, and the jurisdictional grant in this instance
     tracked the Attorney General's request. It gave to the Independent
   Counsel the full power, independent authority, and jurisdiction to the
    maximum extent authorized by the Independent Counsel Reauthorization
                              Act of 1994^ (22)

     [to investigate] whether Alphonso Michael (Mike) Espy, Secretary of
     Agriculture, committed a violation of any federal criminal law,
     other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or infraction, relating in any
     way to the acceptance of gifts by him from organizations or
     individuals with business pending before the Department of
     Agriculture;

     [to investigate] allegations
