http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/strategic/strategic.htm

   The NIDCD conducts and supports research and disseminates information
   on disorders of human communication, including hearing, balance, smell,
   taste, voice, speech, and language.

   [space.gif]
     * National Strategic Research Plan
     * Research Training/Career Development Report
     * Single and Multiple Project Grants Report
     * Peer Review Report

   Search this site
   _________ Go!
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   Strategic Planning
   National Strategic Research Plan

   (See the plain language version.)
   Effective communication is essential for the function of modern
   society. While science and technology have greatly improved our
   capacity for communication, many aspects of contemporary life remain
   profoundly difficult for those with communication disorders. It is
   estimated that one of every six Americans, people of both genders and
   of all ages and races, experiences some form of communication disorder
   (e.g., hearing impairment, dizziness, balance problems, smell and taste
   disorders, and voice, speech or language disturbances). Such disorders
   often compromise social, emotional, educational and vocational aspects
   of an individual's life. The cost of these disorders in terms of
   quality of life and unfulfilled potential is substantial. As the
   population ages and survival rates improve for medically-fragile
   infants and individuals who have sustained injury, the number of
   individuals with communication disorders will continue to increase.

   The mission of the National Institute on Deafness and Other
   Communication Disorders (NIDCD) is to conduct and support basic and
   clinical research and research training in the normal and disordered
   processes of hearing, balance, smell, taste, voice, speech, and
   language. Basic and clinical research focused on understanding the
   normal processes and disorders of human communication are motivated
   both by intrinsic scientific interest and importance to the health of
   the Nation.

   In January and February, 1999, the NIDCD convened a group of 18
   distinguished scientists and members of the public, to provide
   recommendations for a Strategic Plan for the NIDCD for Fiscal Years
   2000-2002. The Strategic Planning Group was asked to identify areas of
   research that fell within the mission of the NIDCD. The Strategic
   Planning Group considered the research currently supported by the
   Institute, as well as NIH-wide scientific initiatives. In addition,
   oral presentations and written statements from public organizations
   with an interest in research supported by NIDCD, were provided to
   assure that the public's perspective would be assimilated into the
   recommendations for a Strategic Plan. The final draft of the plan was
   discussed in detail at the National Deafness and Other Communication
   Disorders (NDCD) Advisory Council meeting on May 27, 1999.

Research Areas That Offer Extraordinary Scientific Opportunity

    I. Determine the Molecular and Epidemiological Bases of Normal and
       Disordered Communication
       --Utilize molecular biologic and genetic approaches to study normal
       and disordered human communication, including gene identification,
       associated mutations and gene expression changes.
       --Apply emerging technologies in genetics and molecular biology to
       the clinical setting and encourage multidisciplinary approaches to
       the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of communication disorders.
       --Investigate complex, multifactorial disorders of human
       communication that arise from polygenic sources. Identify and
       analyze factors that influence variability and susceptibility to
       disease and response to treatment.
       --Develop animal models to identify specific disease gene loci, to
       identify and isolate specific cell populations, and to investigate
       cellular processes.
       --Develop in vitro systems to facilitate the study of function at
       the molecular level (e.g. expression systems for chemosensory
       receptors, organ and cell culture systems).
       --Apply genomic and informatic technologies to understand the
       molecular bases of disordered communication. Examples include the
       development of comprehensive expressed sequence databases from
       sensory organs (olfactory neuroepithelium, cochlear and vestibular
       hair cells, taste receptor cells, etc.); these scientific databases
       will be used to identify many of the genes selectively expressed in
       these organs.
   II. Study the Development, Deterioration, Regeneration, and Plasticity
       of Processes Mediating Communication
       --Characterize age-related changes in structural, and functional
       plasticity.
       --Develop and apply novel techniques, e.g., functional imaging to
       assess structural and functional plasticity.
       --Determine cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying sensory
       cell regeneration (cochlear and vestibular hair cells, olfactory
       and gustatory cells), which may lead to the development of new
       therapeutic interventions.
       --Elucidate mechanisms underlying development, maturation, aging
       and recovery of function needed for communication, including cell
       proliferation, differentiation, pattern formation and cell death
       and survival.
   III. Study Perceptual and Cognitive Processing in Normal and Disordered
       Communication
       --Investigate the molecular mechanisms of neurotransmission at key
       synapses between sensory receptor cells in the inner ear, taste
       buds, and olfactory epithelium and their neuronal targets, as well
       as those in the central nervous system, that relay and integrate
       information.
       --Apply physiologic approaches, such as functional neuroimaging, in
       animal models to dissect the pathways, and define the location and
       sequence of neuronal activity essential for peripheral and central
       processing of sensory input. Define abnormalities of neural
       pathways and spatiotemporal neuronal activity patterns associated
       with disordered communication.
       --Develop quantitative methods to analyze sensory, sensori-motor,
       and cognitive processing in humans, in particular, those processes
       not readily studied in animal models.
       --Investigate the perceptual and cognitive consequences of
       disordered communication and determine how these processes change
       with treatment.
   IV. Develop and Improve Devices, Pharmacologic Agents, and Strategies
       for Habilitation and Rehabilitation of Human Communication
       Disorders
       --Capitalize on emerging technologies to design and improve devices
       that enhance communication.
       --Use clinical trials and other clinical studies to evaluate the
       efficacy of newly developed devices, drugs, and other therapies for
       individuals with communication disorders.
       --Develop and refine diagnostic criteria and capabilities to
       facilitate early diagnosis of hearing, speech, or language
       disorders.
       --Use clinical trials and other clinical studies to develop and
       assess medical and behavioral interventions for infants and
       children who have a hearing, speech, or language disorder.
       --Develop cost-effective techniques for the assessment of
       speech/language development and disorders in the broad range of
       languages currently used by residents of the United States, taking
       into account all cultural and ethnic groups.
       --Use molecular genetic, electrophysiological, imaging, and other
       approaches to precisely define the phenotypes of communication
       disorders as a basis for optimizing clinical diagnosis and
       intervention.

   Health Information |  Strategic Planning |  Research Funding |
   Intramural Research |  News & Events |  About NIDCD |
   FAQs |  Site Index |  Search |  Contact Us |  Home
   [dots.gif]
   Text-only version
   Web Privacy Policy
   Site Information
   top
   [space.gif]
   National Institute on Deafness and
   Other Communication Disorders
   National Institutes of Health
   31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
   Bethesda, MD USA 20892-2320
