http://www.cmdl.noaa.gov/airquality.html

   Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory

                                      CMDL (links to parent organizations)

   Home

       About CMDL

                 Data

                     Publications

                                 Facilities

                                           Related Information

                                                              Contact Us


   What is baseline air quality?

      The impact of gases and particles produced by human activity may be
      felt long distances from where the pollutants are released. Even at
      remote locations, typified by the CMDL observatories in Hawaii and
      Alaska, episodes of elevated amounts of gases such as carbon monoxide
      and ozone, and particles of dust and soot are periodically encountered.
      When long-range transport of these pollutants carries them to the
      continental U.S. they may compound the deterioration of air quality
      caused by local sources of pollution. Phenomena such as Asian dust
      episodes and Arctic haze are examples of the long-range transport of
      pollution seen at Mauna Loa, Hawaii and Barrow, Alaska.


     Mauna Loa Hawaii -- clear day

   Mauna Loa, Hawaii on a clear day

                                     Mauna Loa Hawaii -- dusty day

                                   Mauna Loa, Hawaii on a dusty day


   What is the difference between pollution ozone and the protective ozone
   layer?

       Ozone in the upper atmosphere (primarily above about 15 km) is formed
        naturally by the Sun's radiation interacting with oxygen molecules.
      This naturally occurring ozone screens the Earth's surface from much of
      the damaging ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. However, in the lower
       atmosphere pollutants, primarily related to the use of fossil fuels,
        combine with sunlight to form ozone often referred to as smog. High
       ozone amounts near the ground are detrimental to human health, reduce
    crop yields and lead to the deterioration of materials such as rubber.


   What is meant by the "cleansing capacity" of the atmosphere?

          The ability of the atmosphere to cleanse itself of many of the
           compounds emitted by human activity is controlled by a trace
      constituent called the hydroxol radical (OH). This is often referred to
      as the "cleansing capacity" of the atmosphere. The hydroxol radical can
       be thought of as the atmospheric "detergent". Carbon monoxide levels
       primarily control the global abundance of this cleaning agent. Global
       increases in carbon monoxide may thus reduce the atmosphere's ability
                          to rid itself of pollution.


   CMDL research on baseline air quality

      Carbon monoxide is measured continuously at CMDL's Mauna Loa and Barrow
        observatories and from a global flask sampling network on a weekly
        schedule (see the Carbon Cycle Greenhouse Gases group). At several
      sites, vertical profiles using instrumented aircraft are also obtained.
          Ozone near ground level is measured from eight sites and eight
      locations also measure ozone profiles using a balloon-borne instrument
       (see the Ozone and Water Vapor group). Measurements of dust and soot
      are also obtained at several locations (see the Aerosols and Solar and
                    Thermal Atmospheric Radiation groups).

   Home

       About CMDL

                 Data

                     Publications

                                 Facilities

                                           Related Information

                                                              Contact Us

   NOAA

             Search CMDL:
        Enter keywords______ Go
             [Disclaimer]
           [Privacy Notice]
                               Climate Monitoring & Diagnostics Laboratory
                                           325 Broadway R/CMDL
                                            Boulder, CO 80305
                                             (303) 497-6074
