http://fire.pppl.gov/Fusion1995.pdf

   The President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST)
   President Clinton established the PCAST (E.O. 12882) on November 23,
   1993. PCAST serves as the President's highest level, private sector
   advisory group for science and technology. PCAST members are
   distinguished individuals who are recognized for significant
   achievements and are representative of the diverse perspectives and
   expertise in the U.S. science and technology establishment. They are
   appointed by the President and are selected from industry, education
   and research institutions, and other nongovernmental organizations. The
   PCAST is chaired by John H. Gibbons, Assistant to the President for
   Science and Technology, and by John A. Young, former President and CEO
   of Hewlett-Packard Co. Acting as a committee of the whole, the PCAST
   has authorized the transmission of this panel report to the President.
   The views expressed in this report are those of the panel, and
   individual members of the PCAST may demur from certain of its
   recommendations. July 11, 1995 The Honorable John H. Gibbons Assistant
   to the President for Science and Technology The Honorable John A. Young
   Former President and CEO, Hewlett-Packard Co. Co-chairs, The
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST)
   Dear Dr. Gibbons and Mr. Young: We are pleased to transmit to you the
   enclosed report, "The U.S. Program of Fusion Energy Research and
   Development." This report was prepared by the PCAST Fusion Review
   Panel, which was constituted by Dr. Gibbons on March 22, 1995, to
   review the efforts of the Department of Energy (DOE) to develop fusion
   as an attractive energy source. The Panel was asked to clarify the
   technical and policy tradeoffs and budgetary requirements associated
   with different options for structuring the Department of Energy's
   magnetic fusion energy program and to recommend a preferred option. Our
   report concludes that U.S. funding for research and development (R&D)
   on fusion energy is a valuable investment in the energy future of this
   country and the world, as well as sustaining a field of scientific
   research -- plasma physics -- that is important in its own right and
   has been highly productive of insights and techniques applicable in
   other fields of science and in industry. We conclude also that DOE's
   program plan for continuing this effort in the decade ahead represents
   a reasonable approach in pursuit of the National Energy Strategy goal
   of operating a demonstration fusion reactor by about 2025. Because it
   is now apparent that the budgets needed to carry out the DOE's program
   are unlikely to be made available, however, the Panel focused most of
   its attention on developing a budget-constrained fusion R&D strategy
   for the United States that could preserve the most indispensable
   elements of the U.S. fusion R&D effort, and the associated
   international collaboration, while spending about half as much over the
   next ten years as now planned by DOE. The strategy recommended by the
   Panel entails hard choices, considerable pain, and difficult
   negotiations with our international partners in fusion energy R&D. We
   believe, however, that it is the best that can be done within budgets
   that are likely to be sustainable in the current climate, and the least
   that can responsibly be done to maintain a degree of momentum toward
   the goal of practical fusion energy and to sustain the highly
   productive field of plasma science. We very much hope that these
   recommendations will gain the support of the Administration. Sincerely
   yours, John P. Holdren Robert W. Conn Chairman, Fusion Review Panel
   Vice C hairman, Fusion Review Panel Enclosure President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology Panel on the U.S. Fusion Energy R&D
   Program Members of PCAST John P. Holdren (Panel Chair) Charles M. Vest
   Class of 1935 Professor of Energy President University of California,
   Berkeley Massachusetts Institute of Technology Diana MacArthur Lilian
   Shiao-yen Wu Chair and CEO Member, Research Staff Dynamac Corporation
   IBM Watson Research Center Other Panel Members Robert W. Conn (Panel
   Vice Chair) Andrew M. Sessler Dean of Engineering and Director Emeritus
   Walter J. Zable Professor of Engineering Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
   University of California, San Diego Lawrence T. Papay Robert H. Socolow
   Senior Vice President Director, Center for Energy and Manager of
   Research and Development Environmental Studies Bechtel Corporation
   Princeton University Stewart C. Prager Professor of Physics University
   of Wisconsin, Madison Supporting Staff Gerald T. Garvey Daniel H. Taft
   (Assistant to Panel Chair) Assistant Director for Physical Science and
   Program Manager Engineering DynCorp Environmental, Energy & Office of
   Science and Technology Policy National Security Programs The
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Chairs John
   H. Gibbons John A. Young Assistant to the President for Science and
   Technology Former President and CEO Director, Office of Science and
   Technology Policy Hewlett-Packard Co. Members Norman R. Augustine Peter
   H. Raven President, Lockheed Martin Corporation Director, Missouri
   Botanical Garden Engelmann Professor of Botany Franciso J. Ayala
   Washington University in Saint Louis Donald Bren Professor of
   Biological Sciences Sally K. Ride Professor of Philosophy Director,
   California Space Institute University of California, Irvine Professor
   of Physics University of California, San Diego Murray Gell-Mann Judith
   Rodin Professor, Santa Fe Institute President, University of
   Pennsylvania R.A. Millikan Professor Emeritus of Theoretical Physics
   Charles A. Sanders Former Chairman, Glaxo-Wellcone Inc. California
   Institute of Technology David A. Hamburg Phillip A. Sharp President,
   Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Biology Head, Department
   of Biology Massachusetts Institute of Technology John P. Holdren David
   E. Shaw Class of 1935 Professor of Energy CEO, D.E. Shaw & Co
   University of California, Berkeley Diana MacArthur Charles M. Vest
   Chair and CEO Dynamac Corporation President, Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology Shirley M. Malcom Virginia V. Weldon Head, Directorate for
   Education and Human Senior Vice President for Public Policy Resources
   Programs Monsanto Company American Association for the Advancement of
   Science Mario J. Molina Lilian Shiao-Yen Wu Lee and Geraldine Martin
   Professor of Member, Research Staff Environmental Sciences Thomas J.
   Watson Research Center Massachusetts Institute of Technology IBM Staff
   Angela Phillips Diaz Michael E. Kowalok Executive Secretary Policy
   Analyst President's Committee of Advisors on Science and President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Technology Office of
   Science and Technology Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy
   TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Transmittal i PCAST Panel on the U.S.
   Fusion Energy R&D Program ii The President's Committee of Advisors on
   Science and Technology iii EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 1 Chapter 1 THE BENEFITS
   OF FUSION R&D 5 1.1 Future Energy Demand and the Role of Fusion 5 1.2
   Benefits of the Fusion Program Besides Energy 12 Chapter 2 HISTORY,
   STATUS, AND CURRENT PLANS 16 2.1 History of Fusion R&D 16 2.2 Key
   Issues in Fusion R&D 19 2.3 Status and Plans of the Current (FY 1995)
   U.S. Fusion Program 24 2.4 Current U.S. Fusion Funding in Context 27
   2.5 Current Status and Plans of Non-U.S. Fusion Programs 28 2.6 Role of
   International Cooperation in Fusion R&D 30 2.7 The Pace of Progress in
   Fusion R&D 32 Chapter 3 EVALUATION OF THE CURRENT U.S. PROGRAM AND PLAN
   34 3.1 Goal of the Program 35 3.2 Presence of Needed Elements 35 3.3
   Evaluation of Individual Elements 36 3.4 Linking and Phasing of Program
   Elements 41 3.5 Adequacy of Funding 42 Chapter 4 RECAPITULATION,
   STRATEGY, AND RECOMMENDED PROGRAM 45 4.1 Recapitulation 45 4.2 A
   Budget-Constrained Strategy for Fusion R&D 46 4.3 Specific
   Recommendations, with Explanations 47 Figure 1 Funding of U.S. Magnetic
   Fusion Program (Fiscal Years 1997-1995) 56 Figure 2 Progress in
   Magnetic Fusion Power Through the Years 57 References 58 Appendix A
   Charge to the Panel 60 Appendix B List of Principal Briefings 61
   Appendix C Communications Received by the Panel 62 Appendix D Glossary
   of Fusion Terms and Acronyms 64 PCAST Panel on the U.S. Program of
   Fusion Energy Research and Development EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Funding for
   fusion energy R&D by the Federal government is an important investment
   in the development of an attractive and possibly essential new energy
   source for this country and the world in the middle of the next century
   and beyond. This funding also sustains an important field of scientific
   research - plasma science - in which the United States is the world
   leader and which has generated a panoply of insights and techniques
   widely applicable in other fields of science and in industry. And U.S.
   funding has been crucial to a productive, equitable, and durable
   international collaboration in fusion science and technology that
   represents the most important instance of international scientific
   cooperation in history as well as the best hope for timely
   commercialization of fusion energy at affordable cost. The private
   sector can not and will not bear much of the funding burden for fusion
   at this time because the development costs are too high and the
   potential economic returns too distant. But funding fusion is a bargain
   for society as a whole. Based on the importance of developing energy
   sources adequate to meet the needs of the next century and the promise
   of fusion for this purpose, the benefits of fusion R&D in strengthening
   the national science and technology base, the impressive recent rates
   of progress in fusion research, the costs of the logical next steps,
   and the growing investments being made in fusion R&D in the European
   Union and Japan (which already total more than three times the
   corresponding investment here), we believe there is a strong case for
   the funding levels for fusion currently proposed by the U.S. Department
   of Energy (DOE) - increasing from $366 million in FY1996 to about $860
   million in FY2002 and averaging $645 million between FY1995 and
   FY2005.1 These are actually the minimum amounts required to support
   full U.S. participation in the construction phase of the International
   Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) as currently envisioned while
   maintaining a vigorous, complementary domestic program that (a)
   extracts the remaining scientific value from experimental facilities
   already in operation; (b) constructs the Tokamak Physics Experiment
   (TPX) to explore crucial issues not accessible in existing devices or
   in ITER, and to anchor the domestic experimental program in the next
   century; and (c) nourishes essential efforts in smaller experiments
   (including alternative concepts), theory, computing, technology
   development, and fusion-reactor materials. It almost certainly would
   not be possible to spend less and still meet the fusion timetable of
   the National Energy Strategy, developed during the last 2 years of the
   Bush Administration, which calls for operation of a fusion
   demonstration reactor by about 2025. Although the program just
   described is reasonable and desirable, it does not appear to be
   realistic in the current climate of budgetary constraints; we therefore
   have devoted most of our effort to developing a budget-constrained U.S.
   fusion R&D strategy that, given level funding at about half of the
   average projected for the period FY1996 through FY2005 under the
   current DOE plan, would preserve what we believe to be the most
   indispensable elements of the U.S. fusion effort and associated
   international collaboration. This strategy would cost about $320
   million per year, $46 million less than the U.S. fusion R&D budget in
   FY1995. It would entail hard choices and considerable pain, including
   straining the patience of this country's collaborators in the
   international component of the fusion effort, forcing difficult
   trade-offs between even a reduced U.S. contribution to international
   collaboration and maintaining adequate strength in the domestic
   components of U.S. fusion R&D, shrinking the opportunities for
   involvement of U.S. industry in fusion technology development, and
   surrendering any realistic possibility of operating a demonstration
   fusion reactor by 2025. But we believe it is the best that can be done
   within budgets likely to be sustainable in the current climate, and the
   least that can responsibly be done to maintain a modicum of momentum
   toward the goal of practical fusion energy. The key priorities around
   which our budget-constrained strategy is organized are as follows: * a
   strong domestic core program in plasma science and fusion technology,
   with funds to explore both advanced tokamak research and research on
   concepts alternative to the tokamak, leveraged where possible on
   related activities worldwide; * a collaboratively funded international
   fusion experiment focused on the key next- step scientific issue of
   ignition and moderately sustained (circa 100 seconds) burn, at a cost
   about one-third that of ITER as currently planned; and * an
   international program to develop practical low-activation
   fusion-reactor materials, highly desirable for economical reactor
   performance and environmental attractiveness. This budget-constrained,
   internationally integrated U.S. fusion R&D program would, more
   specifically: * preserve and somewhat enhance the U.S. core program in
   relation to its FY1995 level of about $180 million per year, including
   a degree of remedy of the current program's neglect of confinement
   concepts other than the tokamak; * continue to operate, within the core
   program, the medium-scale tokamaks at General Atomics (DIII-D) and MIT
   (Alcator C-MOD), upgrading DIII-D after Princeton's Tokamak Fusion Test
   Reactor (TFTR) is shut down, and continue modest funding to pursue
   energy applications of the inertial-confinement fusion effort being
   funded for stockpile stewardship purposes in the weapons budget; *
   continue to operate TFTR for 3 years beyond its currently scheduled
   shutdown at the end of FY1995, at a somewhat reduced funding level of
   about $50 million per year; and * continue U.S. participation in the
   Engineering Design Activities phase of ITER at the current level ($70
   million per year), to which this country is committed through FY1998
   under existing international agreements. Under this proposed
   budget-constrained program, the United States would also immediately
   open negotiations with its ITER partners to modify the post-FY1998
   phase of international cooperation, seeking to * gain agreement for
   downsizing ITER construction and operation from a $10-13 billion
   ignition-and-long-burn physics and reactor-technology development
   project to a not more than $4 billion ignition-and-moderate-burn
   physics project, on a construction timetable delayed 3 years from the
   current plan; * promote the possibility of significant international
   participation in the complementary next-generation fusion experiments
   hitherto planned as domestic projects (such as TPX in the United
   States); and * add to the collaborative agenda a materials/blanket test
   facility, as part of the international, low-activation-materials and
   blanket-development program. The United States should be prepared to
   commit up to a total of $200 million as its share of a project that
   achieves international consensus and begins construction in FY2000. The
   expectation of a successful outcome from this negotiation would depend
   on the United States bringing to the table a firm commitment, endorsed
   by the President, of a $1.2 billion contribution to the next phase of
   the cooperation (cumulative over about 10 years). The negotiation would
   include the possibility of expanding the number of partners (to
   include, e.g., China, India, South Korea). It is possible that the
   outcome of the negotiation would be that the full-scale ITER was
   constructed despite the reduction of the U.S. contribution from what
   had been anticipated. This outcome would have the benefit of gaining,
   for the world, the additional science results and the
   technology-testing benefits associated with ITER as currently
   envisioned; but it would have the liability of sharply reducing the
   chance that money will be found within the international effort to fund
   the international materials test facility and to help pay for TPX (or
   another machine with a similar mission). During the negotiation of the
   next phase of the ITER cooperation, construction of TPX (currently
   scheduled to begin in FY1996) would be delayed for 3 years. Thereafter,
   TPX construction would proceed if (a) the outcome of the negotiation
   was such as to permit funding the (probably downsized) ITER ignition
   experiment, the materials test facility, and the TPX with a cumulative
   contribution of $1.2 billion from the United States toward the total
   construction costs of these three facilities, the remainder to come
   from our international partners, or (b) the outcome of the negotiation
   was such that the United States did not become a participant in an
   international ignition experiment, but an ignition experiment went
   forward somewhere under other auspices. If neither of these outcomes
   occurred, construction of TPX would not proceed unless and until a
   review of the new situation - with its lack of a commitment to an
   ignition experiment anywhere - concluded that proceeding with TPX was
   the most sensible next step for the United States in that situation.
   Under some of the possible outcomes from the negotiation of the next
   phase of international collaboration, TPX would not be built. This
   would be extremely unfortunate. We consider TPX to be a well conceived
   and innovative advanced tokamak experiment, without which the United
   States will lack a large tokamak of its own after TFTR is shut down. We
   believe, nonetheless, that the highest priority should be given to
   preserving both (a) U.S. participation in a robust international
   collaboration that includes, above all, an ignition experiment and a
   materials test facility, and (b) a strong domestic core program of
   theory and smaller experiments. If negotiation of the next phase of
   international collaboration under a total U.S. contribution of $1.2
   billion does not produce an outcome that achieves these ends and TPX as
   well, then the loss of TPX will have to be considered a particularly
   dismaying consequence of constraining the overall U.S. fusion R&D
   program to $320 million per year. In addition to developing the
   strategy just described for a fusion R&D program funded at about $320
   million per year, we also have attempted to envision a program that
   could preserve key priorities at a still lower budget level of about
   $200 million per year. We find that this cannot be done. Reducing the
   U.S. fusion R&D program to such a level would leave room for nothing
   beyond the core program of theory and medium-scale experiments
   described above - no contribution to an international ignition
   experiment or materials test facility, no TPX, little exploitation of
   the remaining scientific potential of TFTR, and little sense of
   progress toward a fusion energy goal. With complete U.S. withdrawal,
   international fusion collaboration might well collapse - to the great
   detriment of the prospects for commercializing fusion energy as well as
   the prospects for future U.S. participation in major scientific and
   technological collaborations of other kinds. These severe consequences
   - deeply damaging to an important and fruitful field of scientific and
   technological development, to the prospects for achieving practical
   fusion energy, and to international collaboration in science and
   technology more generally - are too high a price to pay for the
   budgetary savings involved. We urge, therefore, that the Administration
   and the Congress commit themselves firmly to a U.S. fusion R&D program
   that is stable at not less than $320 million per year. * * * * *
   Chapter 1 THE BENEFITS OF FUSION R&D The principal objective of the
   U.S. program of fusion energy research and development is to provide
   this country and the world with an abundant, safe, environmentally
   attractive, and cost- competitive new energy source. Achieving this
   objective would bring large benefits almost irrespective of how the
   energy future unfolds; and achieving it could be crucial if society
   finds it necessary, for environmental or political reasons, to reduce
   sharply the currently dominant role of fossil fuels in world energy
   supply. In the course of pursuing this energy goal, fusion R&D yields
   an immediate and continuous additional benefit by nourishing an
   important branch of basic science - plasma physics - and the
   technologies related to pursuing it. This field of research, for which
   nearly all of the funding comes from fusion energy R&D budgets, has
   been prolific in the production of insights and techniques with wide
   applications in other fields of science and in industry. Finally, for a
   variety of reasons, fusion energy R&D has evolved a higher degree of
   international scientific and technological cooperation than any other
   field of scientific or technological research. This cooperation -
   entailing not only extensive exchanges of personnel and information but
   also full-fledged international collaboration in design, construction,
   and operation of some of the largest experiments - is in itself a
   valuable model and precedent for inter- nationalization of R&D in other
   fields. Such cooperation is likely to become increasingly important as
   the costs of cutting-edge R&D continue to grow in relation to the
   capacities of individual nations to pay for it. In the remainder of
   this chapter, we elaborate, in turn, on the potential benefits of
   fusion R&D for the future of energy supply and on its benefits for
   science and technology more generally. Chapter 2 summarizes the history
   and current status of fusion R&D programs in the United States and
   elsewhere, as well as existing plans for the continuation of these
   efforts. Chapter 3 evaluates the current U.S. program and the
   Department of Energy's plans for its future against a variety of
   criteria. Chapter 4 offers a strategy and specific recommendations for
   how best to pursue fusion energy R&D under the kinds of budget
   constraints likely to characterize the latter half of the 1990s and
   perhaps beyond. 1.1 Future Energy Demand and the Role of Fusion Energy
   Demand in the Mid-Twenty-First Century Future global energy demand will
   be determined by rates of population growth, rates of growth in
   economic activity per capita, and rates of reduction in energy
   intensity of economic activity ("energy conservation") in the world's
   various regions.]1 The combination of high population growth rates and
   the pursuit of rapid economic development in the less developed
   countries means that these countries, rather than the industrialized
   ones, are likely to account for most of the growth of global energy
   demand over the next several decades. Although the details vary, most
   long-range projections of world energy demand show it reaching 2 to 3
   times the 1990 level by the middle of the next century.1 Getting by
   with the lower figure without widespread frustration of economic
   aspirations - and the likelihood of associated social tensions and
   political instability - would require assigning unprecedented priority
   to investments and policies that promote energy efficiency. More than a
   doubling of energy use between 1990 and 2050 may well be required to
   sustain global economic development, to foster international stability,
   and to facilitate investments that improve environmental quality. Of
   the total primary energy supplied to civilization in 1990, nearly 30%
   was used to generate electricity and about 70% was used in nonelectric
   applications of fuels (for, e.g., heat and motive power). Some 80% of
   the world's nonelectric energy came from fossil fuels in 1990, with
   most of the rest coming from biomass fuels (fuelwood, charcoal, crop
   wastes, and dung); of world electricity generation, which in 1990
   amounted to about 11 trillion kilowatt-hours, 62% came from fossil
   fuels, 19% from hydropower, 17% from nuclear fission, and a bit over 1%
   from the sum of biomass fuels, geothermal energy, wind power, and solar
   energy.1 The electric share of total energy use has been increasing: a
   doubling of energy use between 1990 and 2050 might well be associated
   with a tripling of electricity generation (to, say, 35 trillion
   kilowatt-hours). Options for Meeting the Demand The options available
   for meeting the world's demand for energy in 2050 and beyond are those
   already in use - fossil fuels, biomass energy, nuclear fission,
   hydropower, geothermal energy, wind energy, and solar energy - plus,
   potentially, nuclear fusion.1 Each of the options already in use is
   likely to play some role in 2050 and beyond; each has the potential for
   improvement in technical, economic, and environmental characteristics
   beyond those associated with these options today (and each deserves
   investment to achieve this potential); and, at the same time, each is
   subject to shortcomings and constraints that could limit its
   contribution. In what follows, we characterize the options briefly in
   descending order of their current contribution to total energy supply.
   Oil and natural gas combined accounted for 70% of all fossil-fuel use
   in 1990. Global resources of these convenient and versatile fuel forms
   are much smaller than those of coal, however, and the richest remaining
   oil and gas fields are very unevenly distributed. The shares of oil and
   gas in world energy supply - and even the absolute magnitude of their
   contribution -- are likely to shrink in the decades ahead. Dawdling in
   the task of finding supplements and replacements for them is a
   prescription not only for increased monetary costs associated with
   their increasing scarcity in relation to demand, but also for political
   tensions and perhaps even conflict associated with the circumstance
   that the largest and most valuable of these resources are concentrated
   in only a few regions. Coal, which currently accounts for about 30% of
   all fossil-fuel use, is abundant enough to take over the burdens now
   borne by oil and gas - and even to expand significantly the total
   amount of energy derived from fossil fuel - for the entire 21st century
   and beyond. But coal is dirty, inconvenient, and costly to clean up or
   convert to liquid and gaseous synthetic fuels that could replace oil
   and natural gas in their main applications. Coal, oil, and gas all
   suffer the liability of releasing carbon dioxide to the atmosphere when
   they are burned, moreover, and coal is the worst of the three in this
   respect. (Conversion of coal to liquid or gaseous fuels aggravates this
   problem further, because in such conversions some of the coal's energy
   invariably is lost.) The possibility of unacceptable impacts on climate
   from accumulating atmospheric carbon dioxide might well constrain the
   rate at which society will want to use coal and other fossil fuels to
   much lower levels than would be dictated by fuel supply and costs of
   extraction and conversion - possibly to levels lower than today's.1
   Energy from biomass, which currently accounts for nearly 20% of world
   nonelectric energy supply but less than 1% of electricity generation,
   has the advantage of making no net addition to atmospheric carbon
   dioxide as long as new growth replaces the plant materials being
   burned. Under current practices in many parts of the world, however,
   biomass use for energy is associated with deforestation, soil erosion,
   and acute air pollution with particulate matter and hydrocarbons.
   Improved practices could alleviate these problems and increase the
   efficiency with which biomass energy is used, but ultimately the amount
   of biomass energy used by civilization will be constrained by how much
   of the planet's land area and photosynthetic production can be spared
   from the requirements of providing food, fiber, biodiversity, and other
   services. Hydroelectric power worldwide is half as important as biomass
   in total-energy terms; as a source of electricity, it is a third as
   important as fossil fuels and roughly equal to nuclear power. Untapped
   hydropower potential may equal 2 to 3 times what has been harnessed so
   far, but many of the untapped sites are farther from demand centers or
   otherwise costlier to develop than the hydro sites now in use, and
   there would be objections to developing many of them on grounds of
   environmental damages and impacts on local populations. It will be a
   remarkable accomplishment if hydropower is ever able to generate as
   much electricity as fossil fuels are generating today. Nuclear fission
   contributed about a sixth of world electricity generation in 1990.
   Nearly a quadrupling of the size of the nuclear-fission enterprise
   worldwide would be needed in order to generate as much electricity as
   the world was generating from fossil fuels in 1990 - that is, this
   enterprise would need to grow from the equivalent of some 300
   1,000-megawatt reactors today to the equivalent of more than a thousand
   such reactors, with associated fuel-cycle facilities. To generate half
   of the electricity likely to be used in 2050, nearly 3,000 large
   reactors would be needed. Leaving aside the demanding requirements for
   capital and infrastructure to implement such a scenario, whether it can
   be done at all will depend on whether electric-utility officials,
   government decisionmakers, and publics are convinced that the issues of
   reactor safety, nuclear- waste management, and proliferation risks can
   be satisfactorily managed for a nuclear-fission power complex of this
   scale and dispersal. This might happen, but it also might not.
   Geothermal energy, windpower, and solar energy currently make very
   small contributions to world electric and nonelectric energy supplies,
   although each of these options could make larger contributions in the
   future. * Geothermal energy in the forms currently harnessed is
   dependent on isolated, depletable deposits of hot water and steam.
   Using geothermal energy on a much larger scale would require tapping
   the hot, dry rock available everywhere at sufficient depth in the
   Earth's crust. The practicality and cost of doing this remain to be
   established. * Windpower, which currently contributes less than a tenth
   of a percent of world electricity generation, is economically
   competitive or close to competitive with coal-fired and nuclear
   electricity generation at sites with good wind resources, and it could
   be greatly expanded. To make as much electricity as currently comes
   from fossil fuels would require about 10 million 300-kilowatt wind
   turbines (the size range that appears to be most economic).1 * The two
   solar energy technologies most likely to see large-scale use are
   solar-thermal and photovoltaic electricity generation. Both do best at
   sunny, desert sites. Photovoltaics are more versatile, as they can use
   the diffuse-beam solar radiation characteristic of cloudy days as well
   as the direct-beam radiation that most types of solar-thermal plants
   require; but photovoltaics are also much farther from economic
   competitiveness with conventional electricity sources. To generate with
   photovoltaic cells as much electricity as now comes from fossil fuels
   would require perhaps 80,000 square kilometers of photovoltaic instal-
   lations, equal to about 5% of the currently urbanized area of the
   planet.1 Land requirements for typical solar-thermal plants would be
   perhaps half as great. Ocean thermal energy is another renewable energy
   resource of substantial magnitude, but the monetary and environmental
   costs of harnessing it on a significant scale are highly uncertain. The
   foregoing considerations make clear that it will be an immense
   challenge to support a doubling or more of energy use - and, probably,
   a tripling of electricity use - in the middle of the next century in
   ways that are safe, economically affordable, environmentally tolerable,
   and politically acceptable. If stabilizing or even shrinking the use of
   fossil fuels proves to be required, as could happen for environmental
   or political reasons or a combination of these, the challenges posed to
   nonfossil sources will be all the greater. Most of the major energy
   options, fossil and nonfossil alike, are subject to sharply rising
   costs of some kind - economic, environmental, social, political - when
   their scale of utilization passes a critical level. For example,
   hydropower, windpower, and solar energy become much costlier when it
   becomes necessary to resort to inferior sites; oil becomes much more
   dangerous politically when total demand grows so large as to require
   excessive dependence on the resources of unstable regions; fossil fuels
   altogether become much costlier environmentally when the scale of their
   emissions overwhelms the absorptive capacity of biogeophysical systems;
   nuclear fission will be problematic if it grows and spreads more
   rapidly than the managerial competence needed to operate it safely and
   to protect its fissile materials; and so on. Society's menu of energy
   options is also susceptible to sudden narrowing as a result of
   political mischief, unfavorable new knowledge, or other unforeseen
   developments. In these circumstances, it should be obvious that there
   is great merit in the pursuit of diversity in energy options for the
   next century. There are not so many possibilities altogether. The
   greater the number of these that can be brought to the point of
   commercialization, the greater will be the chance that overall energy
   needs can be met without encountering excessive costs from or
   unmanageable burdens upon any one source. The potential value of
   developing fusion energy must be understood in this context. The
   possible costs of needing fusion at midcentury and beyond, but not
   having it, are very high. What Could Fusion Offer? Nuclear fusion has
   many attractive attributes: (a) The fuel supply is extractable from
   ordinary seawater (thus available to all countries) and is sufficient
   in quantity for millions to billions of years. (b) There are
   significant advantages over fission energy options with respect to
   possibilities for minimizing radiological hazards and links to nuclear
   weaponry, over fossil-fuel options with respect to emissions to the
   atmosphere, and over many forms of renewable energy with respect to
   impacts on ecological and geophysical processes. (c) The monetary costs
   of fusion could be comparable to those of other medium-term and
   long-term options. These points are discussed briefly in the following
   paragraphs. Fuel supply. Extracting lithium from seawater until its
   concentration drops to half of today's value would yield at least 150
   million terawatt-years of thermal energy in first-generation fusion
   reactors, based on the deuterium-tritium (D-T) reaction (where the
   tritium is obtained by splitting lithium). Extracting deuterium from
   seawater until its concentration drops to half of today's value would
   yield 250 billion terawatt-years of thermal energy in advanced fusion
   reactors, based on the deuterium-deuterium (D-D) reaction. For
   comparison, world coal resources are estimated at 5,000 to 10,000
   terawatt-years, and world energy use was about 13 terawatt-years per
   year in 1990. Safety and environment. Fusion, like fission, requires
   attention to the full range of nuclear safety-and-environment issues:
   worker safety, minimizing routine exposures of workers and the public
   to radiation, preventing reactor accidents, safely managing radioactive
   wastes, and avoiding linkages between civilian and military nuclear
   programs. But the issues that are most difficult to handle for fission
   are likely to be less so for fusion. Specifically, * with respect to
   reactor safety, if priority is given in the development of fusion to
   achieving its potential for reduced radiological hazards, it should be
   possible to achieve D-T fusion reactors in which "worst case" accidents
   would produce population exposures to radiation about 100 times smaller
   than those from "worst case" fission reactor accidents; use of advanced
   fuels could give even larger improvements over fission; * with respect
   to radioactive-waste hazards, those of fusion (based on the most
   meaningful indices combining volume, radiotoxicity, and longevity) can
   be expected to be at least 100 times and perhaps 10,000 or more times
   smaller than those of fission; * with respect to links to nuclear
   weaponry, electricity-supply systems based on fusion would be less
   likely than fission-energy systems to contribute to the acquisition of
   nuclear-weapons capabilities by subnational groups, and would be easier
   to safeguard against clandestine use for fissile-material production by
   governments. In comparison with renewable energy sources, fusion would
   have no counterpart to the ecological problems associated with
   large-scale production of biomass for energy (heavy use of land, water,
   fertilizers, and pesticides, and loss of natural biodiversity). The
   ecological and geophysical impacts of fusion would be less severe than
   those of hydropower, ocean thermal energy, and (probably) geothermal
   energy. In addition, fusion's land-use requirements would be smaller
   than those of most forms of solar electricity generation. Economics.
   The cost of the raw fuel for fusion -- lithium and deuterium extracted
   from seawater -- would be a very small fraction of the total cost of
   the electricity produced. The construction costs of the power plant
   would account for most of the total cost (as with nuclear fission and
   with most forms of renewable energy). The potentially higher costs of
   fusion plants compared to fission plants, which are associated with the
   complexity of fusion technology, could be substantially offset, for the
   safest designs, by savings resulting from easier siting and licensing
   and greater simplicity in waste disposal. Safer designs could also lead
   to reduced requirements for "nuclear-grade" certification of plant
   components. Comparing the costs of electricity from fusion with the
   costs of electricity from renewable energy is made complicated by the
   base-load character of fusion and the intermittent character of many
   renewables, neither of which is ideally matched to an independently
   varying electricity demand. If positive results from vigorous pursuit
   of fusion energy were to lead to deployment of the first commercial
   fusion reactors around the middle of the 21st century, it would be
   possible to imagine this source providing, by late in that century, an
   electricity contribution comparable to that from fossil fuels in 1990
   -- about 7 trillion kilowatt-hours per year. This output would
   correspond to the output of nearly 600 fusion power plants of 2,000
   megawatts capacity each, operating at an average capacity factor of
   70%. Such plants, twice the size of today's typical coal-fired and
   nuclear-fission power plants, would typically be deployed on
   electricity grids substantially larger than today's and probably would
   be the largest power plants in the mix of facilities producing
   electricity. Contrary to most current expectations, however, fusion
   power plants might turn out to be cost-competitive at capacities
   significantly below 2,000 megawatts, in which case a 7 trillion
   kilowatt-hour contribution could come from a larger number of smaller
   plants. Smaller plants fit more easily into power grids of moderate
   size (which, in the mid-to-late 21st century might still characterize
   some developing regions), and the production of larger numbers of units
   provides greater opportunities for technological and institutional
   learning. Because fission and fusion are both nuclear technologies and
   are, in some sense, competitors for the same "niche" in global energy
   supply - large-scale, capital-intensive, grid- connected electricity
   generation, with the possibility of contributing to fluid-fuel supplies
   by electrolytic production of hydrogen - the issue of comparisons
   between and possible interactions of these two technologies is
   particularly salient. In this context, two pathways entailing an
   important role for fusion can be envisioned: * Along one path, first
   fission prospers, and then fusion prospers alongside it, perhaps
   eventually replacing it and perhaps co-existing with it indefinitely.
   In this scenario, the public becomes comfortable with nuclear fission
   before fusion is commercially available - probably in connection with
   reduced reactor and fuel-cycle costs, decades of trouble-free
   management of the nuclear fission enterprise worldwide, and decades of
   international diplomacy in which nuclear weapons play only a minor
   role. Investments in advanced fission technologies could increase the
   likelihood of this scenario, although they cannot guarantee it. * Along
   a second path, fission does not prosper, but fusion prospers by being
   sufficiently different from fission in its nuclear characteristics so
   that either (a) these differences translate into a significant economic
   advantage for fusion (through, e.g., simplified safety systems, reduced
   regulatory requirements, and easier siting), so that fusion is
   economically attractive where fission was not, or (b) fusion is deemed
   politically acceptable where fission was not. Pathways in which fission
   prospers but fusion does not, or in which neither prospers, can also be
   envisioned. It is not our role here to offer assessments of which of
   these outcomes is most likely. We want simply to point out that the
   possible shortcomings of other major options for the second half of the
   next century and beyond, the benefits of diversity in energy
   technologies, and the penalties attendant on inadequate energy supply
   are all such as to mandate continued intensive efforts to make both
   fusion and fission available in that time period in the most attractive
   forms possible. Energy R&D Policy in Global Context In sharp contrast
   to most of the countries in the world - industrialized and developing
   alike - the United States is blessed with abundant coal resources, oil
   reserves still able to supply half of domestic consumption, and gas
   reserves sufficient to provide the domestic fossil-fuel system with
   considerable flexibility. The United States also enjoys a relative
   abundance of land area that could provide the basis for large-scale
   deployment of solar-electric energy systems, biomass-energy
   plantations, and windfarms. Economic geography presents a much less
   promising energy prognosis for Japan and the countries of Western
   Europe, and this disparity goes far toward explaining the substantially
   lower levels of commitment of public resources to energy R&D per capita
   in the United States today, relative to the levels in these other
   countries of comparable prosperity. The sense of complacency in the
   United States engendered by this country's relative energy-resource
   abundance is understandable, but it is not justified. Having suitable
   energy- supply options is far more a matter of having the right
   technology than of having the raw resources, and this will be even more
   true in the next century than it is today. There will be great economic
   benefit to the United States, moreover, if it is in a position to be an
   exporter of attractive energy technologies to the huge world market of
   the next century, and considerable economic cost if these must be
   imported from Japan, Europe, and elsewhere. There is particular,
   additional merit in exerting and maintaining leadership in nuclear
   energy technologies, because of the influence of choices about these
   technologies worldwide on the prospects for minimizing nuclear-weapons
   proliferation and for avoiding major nuclear accidents. This last point
   underlines a more general one: the United States is unlikely to be able
   to isolate itself from either the political turmoil or the large-scale
   environmental problems that will result if it turns out that adequate
   energy options for countries less well endowed than the United States
   geographically and technologically are simply not developed at all, by
   this country or by others. Thus there is a powerful argument for the
   United States to invest adequately in a broad and deep program of
   energy research and development, to maintain a position of
   international leadership in this field, and to exert that leadership to
   foster and steer international collaboration in those aspects of energy
   R&D for which there are particular advantages in doing so. The U.S.
   energy R&D program needs to address energy efficiency and all of the
   major supply options and potential options, including fission and
   fusion; and, in the nuclear technologies especially, it needs to be
   closely coupled to the R&D programs of other countries. The
   difficulties experienced by the United States in developing and
   sustaining the sort of energy R&D policy that is required, and the
   importance of overcoming those difficulties, are treated at length in
   the recent report on energy R&D by the "Yergin committee" of the
   Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board (SEAB 1995). We hope that readers
   of our report will read that one, too. 1.2 Benefits of the Fusion
   Program Besides Energy Advancement toward the goal of fusion power has
   required the birth and development of a new field of science - plasma
   physics. Plasmas are often referred to as the fourth state of matter
   (the first three being solids, liquids, and gases). It is now
   understood that 99% of the known matter in the universe, although
   little of the matter on Earth, is in the plasma state. The birth of
   modern plasma physics occurred with the advent of fusion research in
   the 1950s, and the fusion program has been the dominant driver of
   plasma physics ever since. Conversely, the development of plasma
   physics has been the engine driving progress in fusion. This essential
   link between fusion energy and plasma science implies that the national
   benefits accruing from plasma science should be viewed not simply as a
   "spin-off" of an energy program. Any assessment of the fusion research
   program should, therefore, recognize both classes of benefits of fusion
   R&D - the long-range development of an energy source and the more
   immediate gains from plasma science. In what follows we address the
   latter, in two categories: first, the value of this field as science
   and, second, the impact of plasma science on industry and technology.1
   Contributions to Science Plasma physics has uncovered a panoply of new
   phenomena. A plasma is a gas of charged particles, each of which
   interacts with all the other particles in the gas - not just with those
   very close to one another, as in an ordinary gas of neutral particles.
   Understanding the behavior of plasmas poses an enormous intellectual
   challenge. Insight into this important medium, obtained by the
   techniques of modern physics, reveals that a plasma is not simply an
   unpredictable assembly of motions. Basic principles have been developed
   to understand the rich array of plasma waves, instabilities,
   spontaneous magnetic phenomena, and turbulence. These emerging
   principles have advanced fundamental concepts in complex systems, an
   avenue of inquiry at the forefront in numerous areas of science.
   Results from fusion plasma physics have fundamental and pervasive
   import for many other scientific fields. In astrophysics, plasma
   science has been employed to understand the behavior of the plasma and
   magnetic fields in the earth's magnetosphere, in the sun and other
   stars, and in galaxies. For example, plasma physics is required to
   understand magnetic storms observed on Earth, solar flares, shock waves
   in space, magnetic fields in stars and galaxies, pulsars, accretion
   disks of active galactic nuclei, black holes, and star formation.
   Fusion plasma physics has been at the forefront in the development of
   the new sciences of chaos and complexity and has forged new concepts in
   the area of turbulence, one of the great scientific problems of this
   century. In the area of large-scale scientific computing, fusion
   researchers have pioneered the use of supercomputers to solve complex
   problems. In particular, the fusion energy program was the first to
   employ time- sharing supercomputers serving a large scientific
   community. One of the applications of plasma physics has been to the
   non-neutral particle beams of particle accelerators. Progress in
   understanding and controlling plasma instabilities has made possible
   all modern accelerators, such as the colliders RHIC (at Brookhaven),
   Tevatron (at Fermilab), and PEP II and the SLC (at Stanford).
   Contributions to Industry and Technology The pursuit of fusion energy
   has laid the scientific foundation for, and has already contributed to,
   a number of technologies that have applications in manufacturing,
   materials, electronics, electric power, computing, and the defense
   industries.1 In manufacturing, the unique properties of plasmas have
   led to important applications in the processing of materials. Analysis
   of the fundamental chemical and physical processes occurring in plasmas
   has led to better understanding and resulted in the improved
   performance of industrial plasmas. Equipment and instruments developed
   by fusion physicists and engineers to produce, monitor, and control
   plasmas have wide use. Examples of such industrial application include:
   * Plasma etching, deposition, and surface modification to manufacture
   integrated circuits. Plasma processing is a principal manufacturing
   technology for creating microelectronic devices on the very small
   (submicron) scale that is required for the advanced integrated circuits
   in computers, communications equipment, and consumer electronics
   products. This technology also reduces toxic wastes from
   microelectronic-circuit manufacturing. * Plasma-assisted chemical vapor
   deposition to prepare diamond and superconducting films. Models to
   optimize film growth require knowledge of molecular dynamics and film
   microstructure that are a result of developments in plasma processing
   and materials characterization. * Plasma-ion implantation to harden
   tools, to produce anticorrosion coatings, and to reduce wear by
   creating low-friction surfaces for both industrial and biomedical
   applications. Ion implantation treats the surface of metal parts, such
   as high-strength ball bearings, cam shafts for performance vehicles and
   military equipment, and prosthetic joints that are low- friction and
   biocompatible. The needs of fusion research have provided a major
   stimulus for the development of superconducting magnets. In order to
   confine very hot plasmas, superconducting magnets of unprecedented size
   and power have been required. Applications of superconducting magnets
   are potentially extensive; they include energy storage, transportation,
   and rocket propulsion. Several classes of advanced materials have been
   developed in the course of fusion and plasma research. Superconducting
   wire and cable configurations are now used in various industrial and
   medical applications. High-strength, nonmagnetic steels, composites
   capable of withstanding very high heat fluxes, new surface-cleaning
   methods, and new electron-beam welding techniques - all developed in
   fusion research - are finding numerous applications. An important
   contribution of fusion has been the advancement of pulsed-power
   technology, including capacitors, switches, and cables, to meet the
   high power needs of fusion devices. Applications include pulsed-power
   components and systems used for defense and commercial research and
   applications. Lightweight, compact, and reliable power supplies,
   initially used for tokamak plasma control, are being used in defense
   and in rail transport. Many practical engineering computation and
   simulation techniques can be traced to the fusion program in
   computational physics. For example, both the computational methods to
   describe the magnetic field generated by complicated coils and the
   finite-element method of analysis of stress were developed for the
   design of magnetic fusion devices. These codes have been adapted by
   engineers working on magnet designs for electromagnetic launch and
   levitation systems. As another example, the computational solutions of
   the electromagnetic wave equation, developed in plasma heating studies,
   are being used in engineering applications ranging from antenna design
   to calculating radar cross sections. The above examples are only
   illustrative. The influence of plasma science and fusion-related
   technology is growing, with many applications only now emerging.
   Already there are a considerable number of successful spin-off
   companies, which are transferring important technologies to several
   commercial sectors. A strong fusion program would continue to be an
   important driver in this area. Chapter 2 HISTORY, STATUS, AND CURRENT
   PLANS The U.S. fusion R&D program is best understood in terms of the
   history of fusion R&D, key issues that such R&D must address, status
   and plans of the current (FY1995) U.S. program, the U.S. funding
   picture, fusion R&D activity in other countries, the role of
   international cooperation in fusion R&D, and the pace of progress. In
   this chapter, we treat these topics in a largely descriptive way.
   Evaluation follows in Chapter 3. 2.1 History of Fusion R&D The history
   of work on fusion energy, together with extensive descriptions of the
   various experimental fusion machines that have played important roles
   in the development of this field, can be found in more detail than is
   possible here in a number of recent major reviews of U.S. and world
   fusion programs.1 What follows here is a capsule summary. Fusion energy
   R&D began in 1951, in Britain, the United States, and the Soviet Union,
   as a spin-off of weapons work on the hydrogen bomb. The work was kept
   secret until 1958, when work on magnetic fusion energy (MFE) in all
   three countries was declassified by an agreement reached at the 2nd
   United Nations Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, held in
   Geneva. Since then, there has been excellent international cooperation
   in MFE; this cooperation has, in fact, been more extensive and
   important, in relation to the total amount of activity in the field,
   than collaboration in any other field in science or technology. In the
   1950s and 1960s, many different configurations for containing plasmas
   were considered. At that time, physicists realized that the development
   of a "magnetic bottle" was the primary subject (it still is), and they
   believed that a variety of approaches would be successful.
   Stellerators, mirror machines, Z-pinches, q-pinches, and other devices
   were studied. Slowly, a sophistication was developed, both
   experimentally and theoretically, through the development of a
   diagnostic ability that allowed careful measurement and through the
   development of the theory of plasmas. Physicists began to understand
   the subject of instabilities. Soon they were able to comprehend, and
   even predict, which devices would be subject to what type of
   instability and why. During this period, the basic parameters needed to
   measure progress towards harnessing fusion energy were identified.
   These parameters comprise the ion temperature (Ti), the product of
   plasma density and confinement time (nn), and the power produced
   divided by the power put into the plasma (Q). Achieving a significant
   fusion reaction rate using the most reactive fusion fuel (a mixture of
   deuterium and tritium) requires Ti greater than 100 million degrees
   Celsius. Achieving a reaction rate sufficient to produce more energy
   than needed to heat the fuel ("energy break-even") requires, in
   addition, that the product nn exceed 1014 seconds times fuel ions per
   cubic centimeter (called the Lawson criterion). Finally, Q must be
   considerably larger than unity to make up for energy lost to
   infrastructure (e.g., pumps, fans, lighting), to the inefficiency of
   the devices that heat the plasma (gyrotron tubes, neutral-beam
   injectors, etc.), and to the production of the magnetic fields of the
   "bottle" (resistive losses in the magnet coils and/or power for
   refrigerators if the coils are cryogenic or superconducting).
   "Ignition" corresponds to infinite Q, but even a finite Q that is large
   compared to unity would be of interest for fusion energy. In 1968,
   Soviet scientists announced that they had achieved very long
   confinement times of hot, dense plasmas in a tokamak device - called
   T-3 - which had been conceived by Sakharov and Tamm.1 The fusion world
   was astounded, but skepticism was laid to rest when a British team,
   invited by the Soviets to independently make measurements of plasma
   parameters in T-3, confirmed the announced results. This event
   initiated a worldwide effort on tokamaks that blossomed in the 1970s
   and into the 1980s. In the United States, this effort included the
   achievement of a record Lawson parameter on Alcator (MIT) in 1975 and
   the authorization of Doublet III (General Atomics) and the Tokamak
   Fusion Test Reactor (TFTR; Princeton) in the same year. Record
   temperatures were achieved in the Princeton Large Torus (PLT) in 1978.
   Meanwhile, work proceeded in a number of U.S. laboratories on fusion
   experiments in configurations other than tokamaks - mirror machines,
   pinches, and so on (discussed further below) - at a somewhat lower
   level of effort. In 1980, the Magnetic Fusion Energy Engineering Act
   authorized a 20-year, $20 billion effort, but it never came to pass.
   The annual appropriations needed to implement it simply did not
   materialize. Instead, throughout the 1980s, projects investigating
   confinement concepts other than the tokamak were terminated one after
   the other to make room, in declining budgets, for continuation of a
   vigorous effort on tokamak development. Stimulated in part by the
   combination of budgetary stringency and the escalating costs of
   proceeding further down the tokamak line of development, there emerged
   from the 1985 Reagan-Gorbachev summit an agreement to intensify
   international cooperation in fusion research in the form of a
   collaborative project to design an International Thermonuclear
   Experimental Reactor (ITER). That project, which is described in the
   next section, was proposed as a major tokamak that would address both
   physics and engineering issues. Although a number of proposals to
   construct new U.S. tokamaks - such as the Compact Ignition Torus (CIT)
   and the Burning Plasma Experiment (BPX) - were submitted in the late
   1980s, none was funded. The domestic experimental effort focused, in
   the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s, on operating and, in some
   cases, upgrading the tokamaks that had been authorized in the 1970s: *
   In 1983, Alcator achieved nn adequate for fusion, but the plasma
   temperature was too low for energy break-even. An upgrade of this
   machine was authorized in 1987 (Alcator C-MOD). * Doublet III and its
   upgrade (DIII-D) produced many significant results, including
   demonstration of high-quality plasma-confinement regimes (suitable for
   advanced tokamaks), divertor concepts (of great importance to many
   fusion configurations), and high-power microwave heating. * TFTR
   produced several significant accomplishments. Learning how to handle
   tritium and learning how to perform the everyday operation of the
   device were necessary. At the same time, sophisticated diagnostics,
   which now make this machine perhaps the best equipped fusion device in
   the world, were developed. In 1994, TFTR achieved the record fusion
   output power of 10.67 megawatts and Q=0.3. The detailed study of
   plasma-wall interactions, the self-sustaining bootstrap current,
   alpha-particle heating and removal, and the production of reversed
   shear (for enhanced confinement) have been of equal importance.
   Investigation of the tokamak concept has also dominated the world's
   other major fusion R&D programs over the past two decades. In Russia,
   the T-3 was succeeded in the mid-seventies by the larger T-10 and later
   by the T-15.1 European researchers built the ASDEX tokamak in the
   seventies and Tore-Supre and Frascati Tokamak Upgrade (FT-U) tokamaks
   in the eighties; and, collectively, the European fusion programs
   completed the Joint European Tokamak (JET), a D- T-fueled machine
   somewhat larger than TFTR, in 1983. Japan established a vigorous fusion
   R&D program in the 1970s, leading to operation of a large tokamak
   called JT-60 in 1985. Russia, various European countries, and Japan
   also maintained smaller-scale investigations of magnetic- confinement
   concepts other than tokamaks, and the non-U.S. efforts in these
   alternative concepts remain stronger than those in the United States
   today. (Current U.S. and non-U.S. programs are reviewed in more detail
   in subsequent sections.) The worldwide effort in MFE was paralleled,
   beginning in the 1960s, by a narrower effort along an alternative
   pathway to controlled fusion called inertial fusion energy (IFE). IFE
   entails using pulses of laser or particle-beam energy to compress and
   heat small pellets of fusion fuel to ignition conditions, whereupon the
   duration of the burn is limited by the rapid expansion of the reacting
   fuel, constrained only by inertia. Break-even occurs, as in MFE, when
   the energy yield exceeds the energy deposited on the pellet by the
   laser or particle beam. In contrast to the case of MFE, the physics of
   IFE resembles in some respects the physics of thermonuclear weapons.
   Consequently, most of the U.S. effort on IFE has been directed toward
   the study of weapon physics and has been funded, accordingly, out of
   the defense budget rather than out of the energy budget, and much of
   the work has been classified. The largest IFE efforts outside of the
   United States have been in other nuclear-weapon states, notably the
   Soviet Union and France, and appear to have been similarly motivated.
   The possibility of harnessing this approach as an energy source is of
   considerable interest, however, and a small part of the Department of
   Energy (DOE) fusion energy budget is currently devoted to exploring
   IFE's energy applications. Very substantial progress in IFE research
   has been made since the first encouraging results were obtained in
   1969. Most of the effort has been based on use of powerful lasers as
   the source of the energy deposited on the fuel pellet, culminating with
   the very large Nova laser facility completed at the Lawrence Livermore
   Laboratory in 1985. In addition, an important set of "proof of concept"
   experiments was done using underground nuclear explosions as the energy
   source for compressing and heating fuel pellets, but this approach is
   not relevant to reactor possibilities. Many IFE experts question
   whether lasers will lead to commercial reactors, either, and advocate
   exploring the use of heavy-ion beams instead. Such heavy-ion "drivers"
   for IFE have received relatively little funding to date, although a
   number of national reviews of IFE efforts have recommended increased
   emphasis on this approach. The terms of reference of this review
   dictated a focus on the fusion R&D supported by the DOE Office of
   Fusion Energy (OFE) - hence mainly on MFE rather than on the
   inertial-fusion work funded from the defense budget - but we do give
   some attention to the value of continuing to explore inertial fusion's
   potential application as an alternative route to commercial energy. 2.2
   Key Issues in Fusion R&D Pursuit of the promise of commercial energy
   from magnetic fusion requires an R&D program embracing four key
   elements: core plasma science and fusion technology; ignition and burn;
   steady-state operation; and materials development. In the following
   subsections, we indicate briefly what each of these elements entails.
   Core Plasma Science and Fusion Technology A broad core research program
   is necessary to address the multitude of scientific issues and
   opportunities presented by the pursuit of fusion energy. The nature of
   the scientific issues requires a spectrum of devices; some scientific
   issues are best addressed in large experiments, some in small
   experiments. What is understood as the core program in the U.S. fusion
   community today is the part of the fusion R&D effort not associated
   with the largest experimental devices that are operating or are under
   design or construction - that is, at present, the program other than
   TFTR (operating), ITER (in design), and TPX (ready for construction).
   The core program provides scientific underpinning for the fusion
   endeavor and for the generation of new ideas, which are essential to
   progress. It is also the source of much of the support for graduate
   teaching and postdoctoral training in plasma physics and fusion
   technology, which are essential to the future vitality of the
   fusion-energy effort. It includes research into improvements to the
   tokamak concept, exploration of alternatives to tokamaks, basic theory
   and computation, basic experimental studies, and fusion-technology
   research, as elaborated in the paragraphs that follow. Tokamak
   improvements. The tokamak fusion concept is highly developed, to the
   point that a tokamak ignition experiment is feasible. The prospects for
   turning a tokamak into a commercial fusion reactor are hampered,
   however, by specific drawbacks relating to its economic attractiveness.
   Among these shortcomings of tokamaks are their vulnerability to
   disruptions (spontaneous events in which the plasma energy is rapidly
   lost to the wall), their need for electrical current in the plasma (to
   produce a portion of the magnetic field that confines the plasma), and
   their low power density (and consequent large physical size and high
   cost). These drawbacks may prove susceptible to alleviation through
   research. Techniques to control disruptions, and improved methods of
   current drive, can probably be investigated by combining medium or
   small tokamak experiments with theory, as part of the core program.
   Approaches to achieving higher plasma pressure have been identified
   that would make use of a predicted alternative stability regime
   accessible through plasma shaping and sophisticated current control;
   these approaches can also be investigated to some extent through small-
   and medium-scale experiments in the core program, but they will
   ultimately require testing in larger devices capable, variously, of
   ignition and steady-state operation (discussed below). Alternative
   concepts. Progress in fusion has been driven historically by a strong
   evolutionary process involving parallel exploration of various
   confinement concepts. In this way, new ideas arise, less favorable
   ideas die, concepts continually improve, several fusion concepts
   sometimes merge into a new approach, and fusion science advances. There
   is a nearly continuous spectrum of alternative magnetic-confinement
   concepts, ranging from those that are close relatives of the tokamak to
   those that are radically different. Today, those that are closer to the
   tokamak are often moderately developed, and those further from the
   tokamak tend to be much less highly developed. (The principal exception
   is the inertial-fusion alternative, which, as a nonmagnetic approach,
   is very far indeed from a tokamak but is quite highly developed, both
   theoretically and experimentally, because of work done in the defense
   program.) Research into a specific alternative fusion concept is
   usually motivated by a perception that the concept has a possibility of
   evolving into a more attractive reactor than a tokamak; in addition,
   alternative configurations often permit investigation of valuable
   fusion plasma physics under conditions not possible in a tokamak.
   Attractive features of alternative concepts currently under study
   worldwide include the absence of plasma current and the associated need
   for current drive (such as in the stellarator); reduction in the
   magnetic-field requirements for confinement (the reversed-field pinch -
   RFP - and spherical torus); and extreme compactness (the spheromak and
   field-reversed configuration). Each alternative concept has advantages
   and disadvantages, and each presents scientific issues that must be
   addressed before its reactor potential can be adequately assessed.
   Basic theory and computation. Theoretical and computational studies of
   fusion plasma physics are needed to attack all aspects of the fusion
   problem, from understanding of basic processes, to development of new
   alternative concepts, to design support for large devices. Theory has
   enjoyed great success in many areas, including the development of
   predictive capability in macroscopic plasma stability, electromagnetic
   wave heating, and current drive. Such theoretical advances have been
   used to improve the tokamak and to evolve alternative concepts.
   Enormous challenges remain in many areas, such as plasma turbulence and
   transport. Advanced computational techniques, including plasma
   simulation, are needed to treat the complex, nonlinear equations that
   describe plasma behavior, and computational physics has taken on
   importance equal to that of analytical methods. Theoretical and
   computational studies are relatively low-cost activities with enormous
   impact on the fusion program. Basic experimental studies. Basic
   experiments, focused on specific scientific issues, constitute a modest
   but valuable component of the core program. Such experiments are
   typically not performed in experimental configurations suitable for a
   reactor. Their purpose, for example, is to isolate a particular physics
   issue and optimize the experimental design for study of that issue,
   rather than to test a fusion-reactor concept. Fusion technology
   research. A fusion reactor will strain the limits of current technology
   in several ways. As these technological limitations are addressed and
   gradually overcome, the fusion-reactor concept itself may change. Three
   particularly important technological issues are fusion-reactor
   materials, plasma-control systems, and the interaction of
   high-temperature energy conversion and tritium management: * The
   development of suitable materials for a fusion reactor - especially
   materials that resist damage and activation under bombardment by fusion
   neutrons ("low-activation materials") - is perhaps the dominant
   technological issue. Many aspects of materials studies, such as
   preliminary development and testing of new low-activation materials,
   can be carried out within the confines of the core program. Because
   materials testing will ultimately require a major facility for the
   generation of large quantities of neutrons, however, the materials
   effort must eventually outgrow the core program; this larger dimension
   of the materials issue is discussed separately below. * Plasma-control
   systems include heating and current-drive systems (such as
   radiofrequency waves and neutral beams) and fueling systems (such as
   pellet injectors). Large experiments and reactors will require advances
   in these systems to function in steady state and at high output. In
   addition, a tokamak fusion reactor will require very large,
   state-of-the-art superconducting magnets. * In a fusion power reactor
   fueled by the D-T reaction, a "blanket" located between the plasma core
   and the superconducting magnets will have the dual functions of (a)
   regenerating tritium by means of reactions between the fusion neutrons
   and lithium and (b) transferring the energy of the neutrons to a
   high-temperature fluid medium from which the energy can be converted,
   outside the blanket, to electricity. The tritium is radioactive and, as
   an isotope of hydrogen, diffuses readily through many metals at high
   temperatures. Combining the functions of high-temperature energy
   conversion and adequate tritium production and containment poses large
   technical challenges. Another important element of fusion-technology
   research is systems studies. These studies conceptualize a full reactor
   plant and examine the effects of different features on reactor
   attractiveness. They are extremely valuable, not as precise cost
   predictors, but as guides to the research themes that might have
   significant impact on the reactor product. Ignition and Burn In all
   existing MFE experiments, the plasma is heated by external sources. The
   external energy input is required to overcome inevitable leakage of
   energy out of the plasma. Ignition denotes the condition in which
   fusion conditions are self-sustaining: The alpha particles produced in
   the fusion reaction deposit their energy back into the plasma at a rate
   sufficient to keep the plasma at a fixed temperature. At ignition, the
   external heating can be turned off and the plasma will undergo fusion
   "burn" continuously. In an ignited plasma, the alpha particles can
   influence the plasma behavior in ways that are difficult to predict.
   The difficulty is that important aspects of plasma behavior depend on
   plasma waves and turbulence, the description of which is at the
   forefront of theoretical physics research. If the alpha particles
   interact with the plasma in a simple fashion (for example, without
   influencing plasma turbulence), then simple, well known calculations
   will predict the behavior of an ignited plasma. If the alpha particles
   alter the turbulence, however, or if their interaction with the plasma
   is affected by the turbulence, then current theory cannot supply
   reliable predictions. The kinds of calculations that are currently
   practical provide insight into possible new effects, but not predictive
   capability. Three related issues of great interest are alpha-particle
   heating, alpha-particle transport, and alpha-particle-generated
   instabilities. It is desired that the alpha particles effectively heat
   the plasma so as to achieve ignition (the heating problem), that they
   be confined long enough to do this (the transport problem), that they
   be confined briefly enough that they do not dilute the fuel (the
   transport problem again), and that they not generate new plasma
   turbulence that can degrade confinement (the instability problem). The
   only definitive way to determine the behavior of an ignited plasma is
   through an ignition experiment, aided by theory. Two-fold differences
   in outcomes can have a dramatic effect on the prospects for fusion. The
   current experiments in TFTR provide a useful example. TFTR is far from
   ignition, but it is generating a population of alpha particles that is
   large enough to explore some of the effects that alpha particles will
   produce in fusion reactors. The alpha particles deposit their energy
   into the plasma exactly as predicted by simple theory, but the plasma
   confinement actually improves in the presence of alpha particles. There
   is about a 25% improvement in the confinement time of the plasma, a
   completely unanticipated result that is not yet understood. Producing
   an ignited plasma will be a truly notable achievement for mankind and
   will capture the public's imagination. Resembling a burning star, the
   ignited plasma will demonstrate a capability with immense potential to
   improve human well-being. Ignition is analogous to the first airplane
   flight or the first vacuum-tube computer. As in those cases, the
   initial model need not resemble the one that is later commercialized;
   much of what would be learned in a tokamak ignition experiment would be
   applicable both to more advanced tokamak approaches and to other
   confinement concepts. An unfortunate distinguishing feature of
   ignition, relative to analogous seminal demonstra- tions in other
   fields, is that it will be very expensive to achieve. The cost exceeds
   what the United States and, probably, other nations individually are
   able or willing to expend. All of the leading nations in fusion
   research have taken the position, however, that achieving ignition is
   of high importance. These circumstances underlie the international
   decision to pursue ignition in the collaborative ITER project.
   Steady-State Operation Existing large tokamaks produce transient
   plasmas. Typically, the plasma duration is in the range of 1 to 10
   seconds (although the proposed upgrade of the Tore Supra tokamak in
   France may be capable of a 1,000-second pulse). A power plant will need
   to generate energy continuously. Thus, it is essential that the physics
   and technology of fusion plasmas be tested under steady-state
   conditions. From a physics viewpoint, one can argue that the plasma
   duration need not be truly continuous, but only larger than the longest
   physical time scale of interest. Many plasma physics time scales of
   significance, such as instability time scales, are very short - less
   than one-thousandth of a second. The longest plasma physics time scale
   of interest is thought to be the time for the plasma current to
   equilibrate. This time can be in the range of 100 seconds for large
   experiments (depending on the parameters of the particular experiment).
   Seeking a factor-of-ten margin beyond this level, then, would entail a
   plasma duration of about 1,000 seconds. The duration of most present
   experiments exceeds all plasma physics time scales except the current
   equilibration time. An important feature of fusion experiments that
   extends beyond pure plasma physics considerations, however, is the
   interaction of the plasma with the surrounding structure. The plasma
   energy deposition on material surfaces releases impurity atoms into the
   plasma. The impurity atoms can cool the plasma and alter its behavior.
   The time scale for the plasma and wall to reach an equilibrium is
   difficult to calculate. It depends on both plasma physics and
   solid-state physics in complex ways. Thus, a definitive investigation
   of plasma behavior for fusion application requires a steady-state
   experiment. As the plasma duration becomes long, the combined physics
   and technology issue of handling the intense energy flux to the wall
   becomes critical. In transient plasmas, the total energy leaving the
   plasma can be handled with existing materials and energy-channeling
   (divertor) methods. At long duration or steady state, however, the
   energy flux challenges the capabilities of currently available
   materials. Definitive tests of power-handling techniques require
   plasmas of long duration. Steady-state operation is, therefore, an
   important milestone for fusion research. The large stellarator under
   construction in Japan will operate in steady state and provide valuable
   information, much of it transferable to tokamaks. It is also critical
   to examine advanced tokamak scenarios under steady-state operation.
   Finally, from the viewpoint of the electric-utility industry - the
   ultimate customer - the credibility of fusion power requires a
   demonstration of steady-state operation; physics arguments relating to
   time scales are insufficient. Materials Development The materials from
   which the reactor structure is made are critical in several respects.
   Fusion is distinct from fission in that the products of the fusion
   reaction are not themselves radioactive. The surrounding reactor
   structure can become radioactive, however, as a result of "neutron
   activation" reactions caused by bombardment of the structural materials
   by the neutrons released in the reaction. Complete realization of the
   environmental advantage of fusion requires the development of materials
   that yield little long-term radioactivity from these neutron-activation
   reactions. Fortunately, even with current materials the radiological
   hazards posed by a fusion reactor would be smaller than those posed by
   a fission reactor of similar electrical output; but the opportunity
   exists to increase this advantage by orders of magnitude if new
   materials under consideration prove suitable. In addition to
   considerations of hazard minimization, it is necessary that materials
   retain their structural integrity after being subjected to years of
   intense fluxes of energy and neutrons. Development of appropriate
   materials to meet these structural requirements, not to mention hazard-
   minimization goals, will eventually require a neutron source to
   simulate the conditions of a fusion reactor. This could take the form
   of either an accelerator-based neutron source for small component tests
   or a volume neutron source (a fusion plasma) for more realistic large
   component tests. A facility of either type would be large and
   expensive, and, accordingly, filling this materials-testing need has
   been under discussion as a potential focus for international
   collaboration. 2.3 Status and Plans of the Current (FY1995) U.S. Fusion
   Program The current program, at an annual budget of $365 million, is
   composed of seven components. In order of decreasing size, these
   components are: moderate- to large-scale tokamak experiments, ITER
   design, the Tokamak Physics Experiment (TPX) design, small-scale fusion
   physics experiments, technology development, theory and computation,
   heavy-ion inertial fusion, and other small activities. (See Table 1.)
   TABLE 1 GOES HERE The activity in moderate- to large-scale tokamaks
   (38% of the budget) is concentrated mainly in three experiments: TFTR
   at Princeton, DIII-D at General Atomics, and Alcator C-MOD at M.I.T. *
   TFTR, which began operation in 1975, is a tokamak of circular plasma
   cross section operating with D-T fuel. Recent TFTR experiments have
   produced nearly 11 megawatts of fusion power for a duration of about 1
   second per pulse, permitting study of the behavior of the
   reaction-product alpha particles in the plasma. These results have been
   widely celebrated and constitute a significant milestone for fusion
   research. TFTR is scheduled for shutdown by September 1995, although
   the TFTR group has described a possible several-year extension that
   would probably yield 20 megawatts of fusion power and, more
   importantly, would enable further study of the dynamics of plasmas
   under the influence of alpha particles. Operation of TFTR will cost $66
   million in FY1995. * After the termination of the TFTR project, DIII-D
   will be the largest operating tokamak in the United States. Although
   not capable of D-T operation, it is of more modern design than TFTR and
   well suited for forefront research in the advanced tokamak physics that
   may lead to tokamak reactors with higher power densities, hence smaller
   size and lower cost for a given output. Issues being studied in DIII-D
   include pressure limits, energy and particle transport, disruptions,
   self-driven currents, current-profile control with radio-frequency
   current drive, and divertor studies. The DIII-D group proposes to
   upgrade the facility to further these studies. Operation of DIII-D will
   cost about $40 million in FY1995. * Alcator C-MOD is a compact,
   high-magnetic-field, high-power-density tokamak. It is the most recent
   of a sequence of experiments that have exploited high magnetic field to
   advance fusion plasmas to new parameter regimes. It began full
   operation within the past year. Its compact size yields a very high
   surface power flux; thus, the device is well suited to explore the
   physics and operating modes of divertors. Such studies are likely to
   have application not only to tokamaks but also to alternative concepts.
   In addition, external radiofrequency heating at high power is available
   on C-MOD, and this machine can also contribute to advanced tokamak
   studies through its profile-control capability. Operation of Alcator
   C-MOD will cost about $16 million in FY1995. As indicated above, we
   consider DIII-D and Alcator C-MOD to be part of the U.S. "core program"
   in plasma science and fusion technology, whereas TFTR - like the ITER
   and TPX projects we describe next - is treated as a large project
   outside the core.1 ITER is an international venture in which the costs,
   contributions, and benefits are shared among the European Union, Japan,
   Russia, and the United States. Currently in the engineering- design
   phase, it is a very large experiment aimed at testing, in an integrated
   fashion, the physics of ignited and sustained-burn plasmas as well as
   all the key technologies needed for a fusion power plant. It is the
   only experiment currently planned anywhere in the world that will
   attack the important physics issues of ignition and sustained fusion
   burning. It is being designed to produce about 1,500 megawatts of
   fusion power during a pulse length of 1,000 seconds, with the
   possibility of later upgrade to steady-state operation. In the
   technology-testing phase that is to follow an initial period of physics
   experiments, ITER is expected to explore such critical technological
   issues as the performance of high-heat-flux components, the behavior of
   blankets that must recover the heat of the neutrons for conversion to
   electricity, the response of materials under neutron bombardment, the
   performance of large-scale superconducting magnet systems, and the
   operation of the complete fusion fuel cycle, including the reprocessing
   and recycling of tritium fuel. ITER will not be a power plant, however,
   and it is not intended to generate electricity. It is a physics and
   technology experiment aimed at testing all key aspects of a practical
   fusion energy system, intended in the DOE's program plans to be the
   step prior to a demonstration power plant. DOE also stresses the value
   of ITER as a pioneering model of international collaboration, from
   conception to construction, in large science and technology projects.
   The ITER conceptual design is complete, and the 5-year Engineering
   Design Activity (EDA) is under way, with completion expected in 1998.
   The integrated total EDA cost is about $1 billion, split four ways. The
   total project cost,1 including construction, has not yet been set but
   is anticipated to be $10-13 billion, distributed over 8 to 10 years.
   This latter cost will not be split four ways but is to be negotiated
   among the four parties: the host probably will be paying greater than a
   one-quarter share of the total costs, with the other partners paying
   less than a one-quarter share. No decision has been made yet about ITER
   construction; the negotiations on this subject are expected to take
   place over the next 2 to 3 years. If the ITER partners decide to
   proceed with construction on the schedule currently envisioned, plasma
   operation will probably commence in about 2008. At present, ITER EDA
   activities constitute about 19% of the U.S. fusion program, although
   other components of the program also perform some work that supports
   ITER. TPX, a national facility presently under design, is to focus on
   investigating advanced tokamak physics in steady state. Compared to
   ITER, which is a relatively conservative physics design that would
   extrapolate to a large and quite costly reactor, TPX is aimed at
   producing the understanding leading to a more compact, economically
   attractive tokamak power plant. Unlike all large tokamaks to date,
   which operate for only several seconds, TPX will be able to operate
   continuously. It will not, however, use tritium fuel, except in tests
   toward the end of its experimental lifetime. The steady-state feature
   will establish whether the advanced tokamak operating modes tested to
   date for several seconds will persist for long time periods. TPX is to
   be situated at Princeton, in TFTR's present location. As a national
   facility, however, its management and operation will be shared by
   institutions spanning the U.S. fusion community, as its design has
   been. Already, industrial participation has been significant and at a
   level not found in previous fusion efforts. In FY1995, TPX design
   constitutes 12% of the fusion budget. Its total project cost is
   estimated by the DOE at about $750 million. The start of TPX
   construction awaits a determination of priorities for the future of the
   U.S. fusion program. About 7% of the U.S. fusion R&D budget in FY1995
   is allocated to small experiments, i.e., those with annual operating
   costs of less than $5 million. This work mainly involves tokamak
   experiments studying basic physics processes critical to fusion, such
   as plasma transport, as well as novel ideas to improve the tokamak,
   such as new current-drive techniques or transport-suppression
   techniques. Many of the small experiments are located at universities.
   About 6% of the FY1995 budget is allocated to technology research,
   which encompasses work on the development of advanced materials
   suitable for a fusion reactor environment, plasma technologies (such as
   neutral-beam systems, radio-frequency sources, and fueling systems),
   fusion technologies (tritium handling, neutronics), and reactor-systems
   studies. A substantial amount of general fusion technology R&D is also
   under way as part of the ITER effort described above. Theoretical
   studies of fusion plasma physics make up 5% of the U.S. program. These
   studies address all aspects of the fusion problem, from understanding
   of basic processes to development of advanced tokamak concepts to ITER
   support studies. The theoretical program involves national
   laboratories, universities, and industry. Studies of IFE using heavy
   ions as the driver (long believed to be the most likely IFE concept to
   lead to a commercial fusion reactor) receive only 2% of the fusion
   energy R&D budget. Work on inertial-confinement fusion in the U.S.
   defense program, which is based mainly on laser drivers, was funded in
   FY1995 at $176 million. This spending level will increase substantially
   if the National Ignition Facility (NIF), a next-generation
   laser/inertial-fusion experiment to be built at the Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory as part of the (weapon) Stockpile Stewardship
   Program, goes forward as currently planned. NIF will cost about $1
   billion to build, and construction is to start in FY1997. 2.4 Current
   U.S. Fusion Funding in Context Expressed in constant dollars, U.S.
   outlays for fusion energy in the first half of the 1990s have averaged
   $330 million (1992 dollars) per year, which in real terms is about half
   of the level of a decade earlier (see Figure 1). Measured in as-spent
   dollars, U.S. funding for fusion energy research was about $30 million
   (as-spent dollars) per year from the late 1950s to the early 1970s,
   rose steeply to about $450 million per year in the mid-1980s, then fell
   to about $300 million per year in the late 1980s. U.S. government
   outlays for fusion energy R&D up to 1990 totaled about $13 billion
   (1992 dollars). At the current spending level, the U.S. government's
   outlays for fusion R&D represent about 20% of total government spending
   for energy-supply R&D (fossil, renewable, geothermal, fission, fusion,
   and end-use efficiency combined1) and are equivalent to about 0.15% of
   U.S. electricity revenues in this country. The current U.S. fusion
   program plan is based on the assumption of strong future budget growth.
   The allocation of significant design funds for ITER and TPX will reap a
   significant return only if the experiments are constructed and
   operated. The importance of these experiments is emphasized in the DOE
   budget request for FY1996. Significant differences between the FY1995
   budget and FY1996 plans include the following: U.S. ITER design
   activity increases from $70 million to $85 million, TPX increases from
   $42 million to $62 million as it begins construction, TFTR is
   terminated (with some $40 million allocated to initiation of TFTR
   shutdown activities), and the small experiment program decreases from
   $24 million to $21 million. Thus, the core research program is
   currently being limited so as to provide funds for TPX and ITER design.
   If the United States decides to proceed as a full partner in ITER, this
   country's annual outlays for this activity after 1998 will peak at
   about $500 million. TPX expenditures for construction will reach about
   $135 million annually. The DOE program plan to accommodate these two
   large experiments plus a core research program calls for annual fusion
   budgets increasing from $366 million in FY1996 to $860 million in
   FY2002 and then falling to $700 million (all as-spent dollars) in 2005.
   The program-plan average for the 10 years from FY1996 to FY2005 is $645
   million per year. The strong probability that fusion R&D budgets of
   this magnitude will not actually be forthcoming is, of course, the
   primary reason that PCAST was asked to convene a panel to review the
   current fusion R&D program and plan, as well as less costly
   alternatives. 2.5 Current Status and Plans of Non-U.S. Fusion Programs
   The other dominant players in fusion research are the European Union,
   Japan, and Russia. The European Union's fusion R&D program is now
   nearly twice as large as that of the United States, and Japan's program
   is also larger than ours; together, the European Union and Japan spend
   about three times as much on fusion as the United States does. These
   other programs also exceed that of the United States in breadth and,
   apparently, commitment to long-term stability in funding for fusion
   R&D. The current funding level of fusion R&D in the European Union -
   which is also the level projected for the next 4 years - is the
   equivalent of about $600 million per year. The lead tokamak in Europe,
   JET, is located in England. JET is larger than TFTR and contains more
   advanced tokamak features. Several years ago, tritium was introduced to
   JET to produce 2 megawatts of fusion power. In a few years, tritium
   operation will be extended to higher power. The main role of JET in
   future years, however, is to provide research support to ITER, for
   example, in divertor studies. There are two additional large tokamaks
   in Europe: Tore Supra in France and ASDEX-U in Germany. Both
   experiments are in the size class of the U.S. DIII-D. Tore Supra is a
   circular- cross-section tokamak with superconducting coils. It is
   capable of 60-second operation - longer than other existing tokamaks
   but shorter than the planned TPX. Asdex-U is a short-pulse tokamak with
   moderate shaping, whose research program is focused on divertor and
   edge physics. About five other mid-size tokamaks are also in operation
   throughout Europe. The European program differs from the U.S. program
   in that it involves a substantial effort in selected alternative
   concepts, constituting nearly 20% of the total effort. Two substantial
   alternative concept experiments are under way, namely, a stellarator
   and an RFP. A medium-scale stellarator, Wendelstein-7AS, is in
   operation in Germany, a small stellarator is beginning operation in
   Spain, and a next-step device (Wendelstein-7X) is in the planning stage
   in Germany. The stellarator is a toroidal concept that is similar to
   the tokamak, but with the distinguishing feature of being free of
   plasma current and, therefore, inherently steady state. A large RFP
   experiment in the DIII-D size class is under way in Italy, and a small
   RFP is in operation in Sweden. The RFP is a toroidal configuration that
   is also similar to the tokamak, with the distinguishing feature that
   the magnetic field required is about 10 times smaller than that of the
   tokamak. On a smaller scale, low-aspect-ratio tokamaks are under
   investigation in England. The low-aspect-ratio tokamak is a "fat"
   tokamak with a small hole in the center of the torus, leading to a more
   compact reactor. The European technology development program is active
   in nearly all of the ITER technology task areas, including
   superconducting magnets, heating and current drive, blankets, tritium
   processing, high-heat flux components, materials, remote handling, and
   safety. A parallel core technology program, of about the same size as
   the ITER effort, emphasizes longer range research, particularly in the
   areas of superconducting magnets, blankets, materials, and high-heat
   flux components. The entire technology prog
