http://www.rma.usda.gov/news/r-and-d/2002/pdf/rd02-003.pdf

   United States Department of Agriculture Farm and Foreign Agricultural
   Services Risk Management Agency January 10, 2002 INFORMATIONAL
   MEMORANDUM: R&D-02-003 TO: Vegetable and Flower Seed Producer Groups
   All Risk Management Agency Field Offices All Reinsured Companies FROM:
   Tim B. Witt /s/ Tim B. Witt Deputy Administrator SUBJECT: Request for
   Input from Vegetable and Flower Seed Producer Groups BACKGROUND: The
   Risk Management Agency (RMA) intends to obtain input from producer
   groups before entering into contracts for research and development to
   increase participation in areas or for agricultural commodities that
   may be underserved by the Federal crop insurance program. RMA believes
   this input is critical in determining the need and direction of
   research and potential development. ACTION: RMA requests input from
   groups or individuals representing vegetable and flower seed producers
   so that their needs, concerns, and other input may be considered before
   it enters into a contract for the research and possible development of
   risk management strategies or products for producers of this commodity.
   Of particular interest is any input that would help RMA determine the
   extent that producers want RMA to pursue such research and potential
   development of risk management strategies or products. RMA is also
   interested in receiving specific suggestions and concerns regarding the
   structure, scope, and limitations producers and producer groups want to
   be considered for such strategies or products. Anyone who is aware of
   insurance protection that is generally available from private companies
   to cover the risks that would likely be covered by recommended risk
   management strategies or products, is encouraged to advise RMA
   accordingly as indicated below. 6501 Beacon Drive $ Kansas City, MO
   64133 The Risk Management Agency Administers and Oversees All Programs
   Authorized Under the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation An Equal
   Opportunity Employer INFORMATIONAL MEMORANDUM: R&D-02-003 2 Please
   provide your input to Josephine Scott by February 8, 2002, to assure
   its consideration. Ms. Scott may be reached by e-mail at "
   Josephine_Scott@rm.fcic.usda.gov," by fax at (816) 926-7343, or at the
   following postal address: Attention: Josephine Scott Research and
   Evaluation Division Risk Management Agency P. O. Box 419293, Stop 0813
   Kansas City, Missouri 64141-6293 Listed below are organizations that
   are being provided this Informational Memorandum. Anyone who is aware
   of other persons or organizations representing vegetable and flower
   seed producers is encouraged to provide a copy of this Informational
   Memorandum to them and/or to advise Ms. Scott how to contact them.
   Agratech Seeds Inc., McCordsville, IN Agripro Seed Inc., Shawnee
   Mission, KS Alaska Seed Growers Association, Palmer, AK Arkansas Seed
   Dealers Association, Fisher, AR Arkansas Seed Growers Association,
   Wilson, AR Burrell's Seeds, Rocky Ford, CO Cal-West Seeds, Woodland, CA
   Chesmore Seed company, St. Joseph, MO Fontanelle Hybirds Seed Co.,
   Nickerson, NE Garst Seed Co, Slater, IA Golden Harvest Seeds Inc.,
   Bloomington, IL Harris Seeds, Rochester, NY Holmes Seed Company,
   Canton, OH Indiana Seed Trade Association, Remington, IN Missouri Seed
   Improvement Association, Columbia, MO Montana Seed Trade Association,
   Townsend, MT Mycogen Seeds, St. Paul, MN New York Seed Improvement
   Cooperative, Inc., Ithaca, NY Rispens Seeds Inc., Beecher, IL Rupp
   Seeds, Inc., Wauseon, OH Stauffer Seeds, Auroa, NE Utah Seed Council,
   Salt Lake City, UT Washington-North Idaho Seed Association, Ritzville,
   WA Winstrip, Inc., North Carolina DISPOSAL DATE: This Informational
   Memorandum is effective until the disposal date, March 31, 2002.
