http://www.nrel.gov/visitors_center/special_programs.html

    Skip Navigation to Main Content
    [USEMAP:head_lv2.gif]
    Tours Groups, Field Trips and Special Programs Volunteering Hours and
    Directions Virtual Tour

   Group Visits, Field Trips, and Special Programs

   Adult Civic Group Visits

      We offer civic groups with hosted visits of the Visitors Center. An
      NREL volunteer will host your group during a one-hour program, which
      includes a presentation about NREL and a guided tour of the exhibit
      hall.

   School and Youth Group Field Trips

      Photo of school tour at the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency in
      the Home exhibit. The Visitors Center is an ideal field trip for your
      school or youth group to learn about energy in a fun, interactive
      environment. An NREL volunteer will provide an overview about renewable
      energy followed by an interactive activity in the exhibit hall. The
      Visitors Center is recommended for students at least 10 years old.

      Advance reservations are required for all group visits. For more
      information, or to schedule your visit, please call us at (303)
      384-6565 or email Visitors_Center@nrel.gov.

   Special Programs

      The Visitors Center hosts special expos aimed at informing consumers
      about advances in energy technologies including featured exhibitions,
      special tours and consumer workshops. Upcoming special programs will
      always be listed on this page as they are announced. Bookmark it and
      check back often!

      Photo of visitors looking at exhibits at the NREL Visitors Center.

   Upcoming Activities

      There are currently no special programs or activities scheduled at the
      NREL Visitors Center. Please refer back to this page often for updates
      as programs are scheduled in the future.

      For more information, please contact the NREL Visitors Center at
      303-384-6565 or email Visitors_Center@nrel.gov
                                       Skip Footer Navigation to End of Page
   Visitors Center Home | NREL Home | Webmaster
   End of Page
