http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0726parkshearingonutahdinobill.htm

   blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   July 26, 2001

              Interior Department Official Testifies in Support
                    of Utah Dinosaur Tracks Monument Bill
             Testimony Heard Today at Parks Subcommittee Hearing

   Washington, D.C. The Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation and
   Public Lands today heard testimony from the Interior Department in
   support of H.R. 2385. H.R. 2385, the Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint
   Preserve Act, introduced by Full Committee Chairman James V. Hansen.
   The bill is slated for mark-up following the August Recess.

   The bill instructs the Secretary of the Interior to buy the land, then
   convey ownership to the city of St. George, Utah. The city, Washington
   County and the federal government will partner together in the
   preservation and management of the site. The Interior Department will
   provide technical assistance and federal grants up to $500,000 to
   preserve the site.

   Interior Deputy Assistant Secretary Tom Fulton testified in support of
   the bill. So did Dr. Sheldon Johnson, who discovered the tracks on his
   land. Sheldon said, "As we have shared these artifacts with people from
   all over the world, they have all agreed that a permanent museum needs
   to be built to protect and preserve and make available the thrill of
   discovery to children and adults from all walks of life."

   House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen's statement:
   "When I met with the local residents of St. George, they told me they
       desperately wanted these tracks to be saved. They told me they
       wanted Congress to lend a helping hand. They said there was an
       immediate need to act, because as each day went by, the tracks were
       deteriorating more and more. We decided that working together would
       be the best and surest way to protect the rare tracks.
       "The bill we discussed today will create a partnership so that St.
       George city and the federal government work together to help
       protect the dinosaur tracks. It will bring together local residents
       and federal officials to help preserve a unique and fragile
       discovery. For me, the definition of a good bill is one that gets
       the job done in a quick, effective and agreeable way. The Virgin
       River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve Act does just that."

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
