http://www.parks.wa.gov/boating.asp


   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page Boating in Washington State

   Home
   Reservations
   Park Information
   Rental Places
   Activities
   Agency Information
   ADA Recreation
   Site Map & Search


Boating Program

   Kayaks and Sailboat near Blake Island State Parks The waters of
   Washington state are a national and international resource.
   Recreationally and commercially, these waters contribute to the
   well-being of residents of the Pacific Northwest. To help maintain this
   valuable resource, it is essential that all users of these waters,
   including recreational boaters, recognize their role in keeping these
   waters clean. Additionally, it's important that boaters operate their
   vessels in a safe manner to protect themselves and others from needless
   accidents and injuries.
   Boating in Washington State The State Parks boating program promotes
   enjoyable, safe, environmentally responsible recreation on Washington's
   waters in partnership with government, business, educators, citizen
   action groups and the boating public. Program activities are guided by
   a citizen advisory committee and, where possible, all boating safety
   activities occur at the county and city levels. The program provides
   assistance in training, equipment and materials to local groups in
   carrying out a network of boating safety education and law enforcement
   activities. Washington State Coast Guard On a statewide basis, the
   program conducts a targeted boating safety information program intended
   to increase the safety awareness of specific groups of boaters. The
   program also works with the U.S. Coast Guard and other states to ensure
   reciprocity of boating regulations for ease of travel by boaters when
   crossing state and national boundaries.
   [spacer.gif]

    Important Information

   Pumpout Information
          Learn how to use different types of boat sewage pumpouts, find
          ways you can help keep this equipment functioning properly and
          find out why it is important to use this equipment when you are
          boating.

   Pumpout Locations
          A map of Washington state shows locations of pumpout facilities
          usually having both pumpout equipment and dump stations for
          port-a-potties.

   Boating FAQ
          This section has the most frequently asked questions about
          boating safety rules in Washington.

   The Washington State Boater's Guide
          The publication has all of the rules that apply to boating in
          Washington state, as well as information about safe and
          responsible boating.

   Important Links
          Find the current weather and tides, or connect to other boating
          organizations.

    Boat Moorage Information

    Watercraft Launch Information

   Boating in Washington State

   Copyright © 2002 Washington State Parks
   Please review our privacy policy.
   Contact us.
   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home Page | Reservations | Park Information | Rental Places

   Activities  | Agency Information | ADA Recreation

   Site Map & Search
   Washington State Government Information & Services
