http://norfolk.fbi.gov/contact/fo/norfolk/comoutrch.htm



    Home Feedback


                     Link to Investigative Programs

                   Investigative Programs

                   Link to Media Matters

                   Media Matters

                     Link to Community Alert & Educations

                   Flashing image

                         Community Alert & Education

                   Link to How to Reach Us

                    How to Reach Us

                     Link to Community Outreach

                   Community Outreach

                   Link to Employment

                    Employment

                   Link to Police Links

                    Police Links

                   Link to Local Weather/Time

                    Local Weather/Time


                              Community Outreach

   Since prevention and education play a major role in countering crime,
   the Norfolk FBI has committed itself to an active Community Outreach
   Program that works with our community, law enforcement, schools,
   businesses, and other local, state, and federal agencies to disseminate
   prevention materials and sponsor prevention programs, speeches, and
   events.

   Since 1988, the Norfolk FBI has been involved in the Drug Demand
   Reduction Program (DDRP), a national program in which the Norfolk FBI
   works with the community to reduce the demand for illegal drugs in
   Hampton Roads. One major annual event, the Race Against Drugs, combines
   high-speed racing on Hampton Roads waterways with the drug free
   message. This national drug prevention program, sponsored by the FBI,
   the National Child Safety Council, and 21 of the nation's largest race
   organizations, allows sponsoring agencies, race promoters, and drivers
   to join the FBI in alerting children, teenagers, and their parents
   about the dangers of illegal drug use.


   Norfolk FBI Staff and area children attend the 1999 Race Against Drugs
   in Hampton. Picture of Norfolk FBI and children

   The Norfolk FBI also participates in the Friendship Village Project.
   Friendship Village is a low-income housing area known as one of the
   neediest areas in Virginia Beach. The Norfolk FBI, Federal Department
   of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), NASA, WHRO-TV, Virginia Beach
   Police and local banks, universities and businesses joined forces to
   bring the drug-free message into the area through practical means.
   Computers were installed, and Norfolk FBI Computer Specialists
   volunteer their time weekly teaching computer skills to children and
   adults. The results? Many no longer depend on welfare assistance and
   are gainfully employed in the community, thanks to their newly-acquired
   job skills. HUD has recognized the Friendship Village Project as a
   successful prototype for similar programs across the country --
   bringing local, state, and federal resources to bear successfully on
   local needs.


   Last modified: March 17, 2000
