http://www.wff.nasa.gov/pages/welcome.html

   Skip past top navigation links   Return to Wallops Home Doing Business
   with Wallops Programs and Projects
     Technical Capabilities Public and Education Outreach Supporting
   NASA's Enterprises

   Welcome to Wallops Flight Facility



Organization
Getting to Wallops
Vision and Mission
Wallops Philosophy
History of Wallops
Location Maps
Site Map

   Dr. John Campbell Welcome to Wallops Flight Facility
   Dr. John Campbell
   Director, Suborbital Projects and Operations
   (Code 800)
   Send e-mail to John Campbell
   Send anonymous e-mail to John Campbell
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center`s Wallops Flight Facility, located on
   Virginia`s Eastern Shore, was established in 1945 by the National
   Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, as a center for aeronautic
   research.

   Wallops is now NASA`s principal facility for management and
   implementation of suborbital research programs. The Wallops Mission
   2000 Plan includes the following objectives:
    1. To help achieve NASA`s strategic objectives for scientific and
       educational excellence through cost efficient integration, launch,
       and operations of suborbital and small orbital payloads.
    2. To enable scientific, educational, and economic advancement by
       providing the facilities and expertise to enable frequent flight
       opportunities for a diverse customer base.
    3. To serve as a key facility for operational test, integration, and
       certification of NASA and commercial next-generation, low-cost
       orbital launch technologies.
    4. To pioneer productive and innovative government, industry, and
       academic partnerships

   The research and responsibilities of Wallops Flight Facility are
   centered around the philosophy of providing a fast, low cost, highly
   flexible and safe response to meet the needs of the United States`
   aerospace technology interests and science research. The 900 full-time
   Civil Service and contractor NASA Wallops employees act as a team to
   accomplish our mission in the spirit of this philosophy.

   NASA also opens its unique facilities to industry for space and
   aeronautics research. Wallops expects an increase in commercial launch
   activity in the very near future.


     To NASA
     To NASA Contact Wallops
             Contact Wallops Wallops Home
                             Wallops Home
