http://pollutionprevention.sandia.gov/richardsonq.htm

                         [logo.jpg]

                                      [title.gif]

                                   Richardson Quote

   From: Bill Richardson

   Subject: Pollution Prevention and Energy Efficiency (P2/E2) at
   Department of Energy Facilities

   Date: February 26,1999

   On July 25, 1998, President Clinton directed a renewed effort by all
   Federal agencies to reduce energy consumption and to establish a
   strategy for continuing cost-saving energy management initiatives.
   Additionally, Executive Order 13101, signed by President Clinton on
   September 14,1998, requires all Federal agencies to increase their
   efforts in waste prevention, recycling, and the purchase of
   environmentally preferable products.

   I am committed to making the Department of Energy a leader in
   pollution-free, energy-efficient operations in the Federal Government.
   To become that leader, we must continually improve our facilities to
   maximize energy efficiency and must strive toward "zero" waste and
   emissions.

   I am directing that each Department head undertake activities to
   prevent pollution and save energy and water. The Department can lower
   the future operating costs of our facilities by incorporating pollution
   prevention and energy efficiency (P2/E2) into the design and
   modification of all buildings and during all operations. Also, more
   efficient, less polluting operations and facilities will enhance worker
   safety and public health while protecting the environment.

   I am asking the Deputy Secretary, supported by the Department's
   Environmental Executive, Dan Reicher, Assistant Secretary for Energy
   Efficiency and Renewable Energy, to regularly convene a Pollution
   Prevention and Energy Efficiency Executive Board that will set new
   goals for waste-prevention, recycling, and energy and water
   conservation. During the next year, the Board will oversee
   implementation of a additional projects that will ensure our continued
   success in pollution prevention and energy and water conservation.
   Please give the Deputy Secretary and the Environmental Executive your
   full support to ensure the Board's success.

                                [alvrule.gif]

     U.S. Department of Energy Pollution Prevention Conference November
                                 15-19, 1999
           E-mail info: doep2@sandia.gov Voice info: 505-284-6749
                 Copyright 1999 Sandia National Laboratories

     Sandia National Laboratories (Logo)   Waste-management Education &
     Research Consortium (Logo)   Los Alamos National Laboratory (Logo)
