http://ray.eeel.nist.gov/MoreInfo.html

                         Current Activities within the

                      Device and Package Metrology Project

   Color Line

INDEX

     * Advanced Device Model Validation:

                [blueball.gif] Analytic Model Developed for IGBT

                [greenball.gif] Experimental Validation

                [redball.gif] Implementation into Commercial Simulator

                [ball.yellow.gif] Model Validation Working Group

     * Microelectronic Package Characterization:

                [blueball.gif] Package Technology

                [greenball.gif] Multilayer Thermal Code

                [redball.gif] Compact Thermal Component Models

                [ball.yellow.gif] Package Thermal Characterization

   Color Line

   Analytic Model Developed for IGBT:

   The component models that are used in the simulation of the electrical
   behavior of systems are often poorly characterized and may not be
   accurate for the conditions being simulated. NIST is working with
   industry to develop procedures for validating the accuracy and range of
   applicability for advanced models. Several years ago, NIST developed an
   analytic model for the Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor, the most
   advanced and popular new power semiconductor device. (IGBT Schematic
   Model).
   [igbt4.white.trans.gif]

   Color Line

   Experimental Validation:

   For designers to 'trust' a model, though, it must be completely tested
   against actual experiments. The IGBT model was validated experimentally
   for a wide range of use conditions at NIST.
   [al2.gif]

   Color Line

   Implementation into Commercial Simulator:

   For such a model to be truly useful, though, it must be available to
   the circuit and system design community. NIST worked with Analogy, a
   software company, to implement the model into their SABER system
   simulator. Most recently, an advanced electro-thermal model complete
   with compact thermal component models developed at NIST has been
   implemented into the SABER simulator.
   [test.gif]

   Color Line

   Model Validation Working Group:

   Because of the importance of having validated models available, NIST,
   with the IEEE, has formed a Working Group of industry experts to
   develop accepted procedures for validating models and simulations. The
   working group has well over 100 members from device manufacturers and
   users, software vendors, government, and universities. One of the ways
   the group communicates is through an interactive database, maintained
   by NIST, on the World Wide Web.
   [modval.gif]

   Color Line

   Package Technology:

   A microelectronic device includes the semiconductor 'chip', the package
   that surrounds the chip, and the interconnects between the chip and
   that package. The technology trends are PHYSICALLY, for the chips to
   become larger (to pack more functionality) and the packages to become
   smaller, particularly thinner (to permit lighter, more portable
   equipment), ELECTRICALLY, for the devices to operate faster, and
   THERMALLY for the devices to dissipate more power.
   [pckg.ps.pnm.crop.trans.gif]

   Color Line

   Multilayer Thermal Code:

   Recently, an upgrade of the NIST-developed thermal modeling code, TXYZ,
   was released. In the new version, the temperature on the top surface of
   a structure with an arbitrary number of layers of different thermal
   properties and thickness and for an arbitrary number and location of
   surface heat sources is computed. Because TXYZ is based on an analytic
   solution of the heat flow equations (as opposed to a finite difference
   or finite element code), it has also been used in industry as a
   benchmark to determine the accuracy of finite difference codes.
   Color Line

   Compact Thermal Component Models:

   A procedure has been described, and recently implemented by a
   commercial software vendor, for developing component models for
   electro-thermal network simulation. Using this new methodology, the
   simulator solves for the temperature distribution within the
   semiconductor devices, packages, and heat sinks, which comprise the
   'thermal network' simultaneously with the current and voltages in the
   electrical network. The thermal network is represented as an
   interconnection of compact thermal components so the system designer
   can readily interchange different thermal components and examine
   different configurations of the thermal network. The thermal component
   models are parameterized in terms of their structure and material
   properties so the details of the heat transfer physics are transparent
   to the user.
   [mele1.ps.pnm.crop.gif]

   Color Line

   Package Thermal Characterization:

   For modern devices, many 'traditional' concepts are invalid or not
   adequate. One such example, is 'thermal resistance', a concept that
   describes the thermal behavior of a device. NIST is doing research and
   working with various industry standards organizations, companies, and
   universities to develop improved ways to specify and measure the
   thermal performance of packages. This will enable users to not only
   better compare package performance but also to more quickly and
   accurately complete the thermal design of their systems.
   [pckg.ps.pnm.crop.trans.gif]

   Color Line

   Package Thermal Simulation:

   Today, the influence of the 'package' and 'interconnects' on system
   performance is becoming more important, particularly due to the
   increased speed and power dissipation of the chips. The NIST program is
   addressing measurement issues related to the electrical and thermal
   characterization of packages and interconnects.
   [ansys_small.gif] Color Line


    For more info email: hefner@sed.eeel.nist.gov

   [back.gif] Return to Al Hefner's Home Page.
