http://library.msha.gov/basisbwdocs/authhlp.htm

                           The MSHA Library Search

Field Name: Authors

   Includes all Personal and Corporate Authors found in the Author Index.
   The format for Personal Authors is Last Name, First Initial, MI (if
   present). There is no fixed format for Corporate Authors. When you
   enter criteria in the Author field, you are searching all keywords in
   the Author Index. Use an asterisk (*) for a wildcard.

   The Author field has been defined as a text field. To understand how to
   execute a a search on text fields, you must know the definitions of
   stopwords and keywords. Stopwords are small, common words that have
   little retrieval value, such as "the," "a," "of," and "for." Keywords
   are any words that are not designated as stopwords.

   The following list describes the test operators that appear in the
   droplist box to the right of the Author field label.

        contains the phrase
                Searches for all keywords and stopwords in exact order and
                position.

        contains in order
                Searches for all keywords in exact order and position.

        contains all
                Searches for all keywords in any order.

        contains any
                Searches for any keywords in any order.

        includes
                Searches for any keywords in any order (when the search
                values are separated with commas).
                Searches for all keywords in any order (when the search
                values are separated with ampersands).

   Search Examples

   Searching multiple fields:
   Choose appropriate field connector from droplist box at the bottom of
   the search form.

   Sort Options:
   You may sort your search results by any of the fields in the droplist
   box at the bottom of the search form. You may also sort them in either
   ascending or descending order. If you select $RANK as the sort
   criterion, then the documents will be sorted according to how many hits
   were found in each. (A hit is a term in the document that matches the
   search value you specified.) If you keep the default value of NONE,
   then the documents will not be sorted.

   Note: When you specify $RANK for the Sort By box, the system will list
   the documents in descending order no matter what value you have
   selected in the Sort Order box.
