http://www.bxa.doc.gov/Enforcement/eeprogrm.htm

   Skip to Main Content of Page

    Go to BXA Home Page What's New on the BXA Web site? Conduct Full Text
                         Search of the BXA Web site

                                         Export Enforcement Header Graphic

   Web Links
                              Text of this page

    How to Recognize a Violation Red Flags to look for Form for Reporting
    Violations Know Your Customer Guidance Case Summaries, Don't Let This
     Happen to You! BXA's Export Enforcement Program Business Executives
   Enforcement Team Information Go to the Denied Persons List Antiboycott
   Information and Reporting Requirements Fastener Quality Act Enforcement
                         Go to Enforcement Home Page

                           Preventive Enforcement
                               Protecting the
                              National Interest
                                Penalties for
                                 Violations
                             Public Cooperation








                               Summary of the
                         Export Enforcement Program
          ________________________________________________________

" " The primary roles of BXA's Export Enforcement (EE) program are to

     " " prevent the illegal export of dual-use items before they occur;

     " " investigate and assist in the prosecution of violators of the
     Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the Fastener Quality Act
     (FQA); and

     " " inform and educate exporters, freight forwarders, and
     manufacturers of their enforcement responsibilities under the EAR
     and FQA.

                         " " Preventive Enforcement:

     " " Pre-license Checks and Post-Shipment Verification: All export
     license applications are screened electronically by EE to ensure
     items are not illegally exported. In addition EE reviews specific
     individual license applications to assess diversion risks, identify
     potential violations, and determine the reliability of those
     receiving controlled U.S.-origin commodities or technical data. In
     some instances EE, or another Federal agency, requests that a
     pre-license check be conduced to determine the bona fides of the
     transaction and suitability of the end-user. The result of this
     check is factored into the licensing recommendation EE makes to
     BXA's licensing offices. In addition, EE carries out post-shipment
     verifications to ensure that a controlled U.S.-origin item has
     actually been delivered to the authorized ultimate consignee or
     end-user and that it is being used as claimed on the export license
     application. Special Agents at air cargo facility

     " " Safeguards Verification Program: Annually, EE conducts numerous
     on-site safeguard verification trips around the world. During these
     trips, pre-license checks and post-shipment verifications are
     conducted on controlled U.S. goods, especially those of
     proliferation concern. In cases where EE's Safeguards Verification
     Teams discover items are being used inappropriately or in a manner
     that is inconsistent with an export license they work closely with
     host government officials to correct the situation. The EE
     verification teams also assess the suitability of foreign firms to
     receive U.S.-origin goods and technologies that require U.S.
     validated licenses.

     " " SED Review Program: EE conducts on-site reviews of selected
     Shipper's Export Declarations (SED) at U.S. ports before goods are
     exported and again after shipments are made. These on-site reviews
     are conducted to uncover attempts to export items illegally which
     require a validated export license from the Department of Commerce.
     Items for export to destinations of concern and exports of
     proliferation concern are targeted specifically.

     In addition to the preventive enforcement efforts under the SED
     Review Program, EE's Office of Enforcement Support identifies past
     shipments that may have violated the Export Administration
     Regulations and refers them to the Office of Export Enforcement
     (OEE) for further investigation. Hundreds of investigations of
     suspected export control violations occur annually, based on the
     routine review of SEDs.

     " " Visa Application Review Program: Initiated in 1990, the Visa
     Application Review Program attempts to prevent the unauthorized
     access to controlled U.S. technology or technical data by aliens
     visiting the United States. Under this program, information on visa
     applications is reviewed to detect and prevent possible violations
     of the Export Administration Regulations. Each year this program
     results in a number of recommendations against issuing visas being
     forwarded to the U.S. Department of State.

" " Protecting the National Interest and Prosecuting Violators Special Agents
                              search air cargo

   Export Enforcement protects U.S. national security, foreign policy, and
       economic interests by educating exporters, interdicting illegal
     exports, and prosecuting violators, all without impeding legitimate
     trade activities. Export Enforcement special agents work with BXA's
      licensing officials and policy staff to deter the export of items
     which, in the hands of unreliable users, can prove damaging to U.S.
                                 interests.

     Export Enforcement personnel also work closely with BXA's Office of
      Chief Counsel and U.S. Attorneys offices in bringing enforcement
     actions against violators of the Export Administration Regulations.
          Violators can face criminal penalties (fines and possible
    imprisonment), civil penalties and administrative sanctions, or both.
      The list of Denied Persons contains information on the names and
      addresses of firms and individuals denied access to U.S. goods in
              addition to the reason(s) for the denial action.

 " " Penalties for violations of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR)
                                can include:

                                " " Criminal:

                            "Willful violations:"

     Corporation - A fine of up to the greater of $1,000,000 or five
     times the value of the exports for each violation;

     Individual - A fine of up to $250,000 or imprisonment for up to ten
     years, or both, for each violation.

                            "Knowing violations:"

     Corporation - A fine of up to the greater of $50,000 or five times
     the value of the exports for each violation;

     Individual - A fine of up to the greater of $50,000 or five times
     the value of the exports or imprisonment for up to five years, or
     both, for each violation.

                             " " Administrative:

     For each violation of the EAR any or all of the following may be
     imposed:
     * The denial of export privileges;
     * The exclusion from practice; and/or
     * The imposition of a fine of up to $12,000 for each violation,
       except that the fine for violations involving items controlled for
       national security reasons is up to $120,000 for each violation.

                        " " Temporary Denial Orders:

      Temporary Denial Orders are issued by the Assistant Secretary for
      Export Enforcement, denying any or (typically) all of the export
     privileges of a company or individual to prevent an imminent export
    control violation. These orders cut off not only the right to export
   firm the United States, but also the right to receive or participate in
                            exports from the U.S.

                         " " Section 11(h) Denials:

    Section 11(h) of the Export Administration Act provides that, at the
      discretion of the Secretary of Commerce, no person convicted of a
    violation of the EAA, IEEPA, or Section 38 of the Arms Export Control
     Act (or any regulation, license, or order issued under any of these
    laws) will be eligible to apply for or use any export license issued
    under the EAA for up to ten years from the date of the conviction. In
     addition, Section 11(h) provides that the Secretary of Commerce may
     revoke any export license in which the party had at the time of the
                                 conviction.

                           " " Public Cooperation:

    In its efforts to inform and educate the public, EE's special agents
      participate in seminars and trade shows across the country. These
     events provide the special agents the opportunity to meet with many
    exporters and freight forwarders directly, provide them with guidance
    on export control and enforcement matters, and to hear private sector
                                  concerns.

            Business Executives' Enforcement Team (BEET) Program:

   The BEET program is part of EE's effort to prevent possible violations
   by expanding its contacts with U.S. businesses. The BEETs are a series
       of half-day meetings, held around the United States, that allow
   corporate officials to learn about their export control and enforcement
   responsibilities while offering them the opportunity to question export
        enforcement officials about U.S. export control issues. BEET
    participants explore ways for businesses and enforcement officers to
    work together to prevent violations and identify projects of concern
    for proliferation reasons. We expect to schedule BEET conferences in
                              the near future.

                     " " Enforcement of Other Programs:

     " " Fastener Quality Act: The Office of Export Enforcement (OEE)
     investigates alleged violations of the Fastener Quality Act (FQA).
     The Fastener Quality Act relates to representations about standards
     and specifications for the manufacture, testing, and marking of
     fasteners. To report a violation or a suspected violation of the
     FQA, call the OEE Hotline at 1-800-424-2980 or use our confidential
     reporting form. OEE does not provide advice on the interpretation or
     implementation of the FQA. The Hotline and reporting form above are
     only for reporting possible violations. For a copy of the FQA and
     its implementing regulations, you may visit the National Institute
     of Standard's FQA website at www.nist.gov/fqa.

     The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) maintains the Fastener
     Insignia Register to record insignias of fastener manufacturers and
     private label distributors to ensure traceability of fasteners.

   BXA Home > Export Enforcement Home > Summary of the Enforcement Program
