http://www.usfa.fema.gov/about/press/01-247.htm

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Press Releases Banner Image


                                                  ABOUT USFA
                           USFA Programs Navigation Menu Link
                                 History Navigation Menu Link
                          Press Releases Navigation Menu Link
                                   FAQ's Navigation Menu Link
                Employment Opportunities Navigation Menu Link

Release No.: 01-247
Release Date: November 30, 2001

APPLICATION PROCEDURES ESTABLISHED FOR 2002 HARVARD FIRE EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM

   WASHINGTON -- Application procedures have been established for the 2002
   Harvard Fire Executive Fellowship Program. The program is sponsored
   through a partnership of the United States Fire Administration's (USFA)
   National Fire Academy (NFA), the National Fire Protection Association
   (NFPA) and the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC). USFA is
   a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

   "The Harvard Fellowship Program provides the opportunity for senior
   fire executives to participate in a superior quality professional
   development program," said Ken Burris, acting United States Fire
   Administrator. "The 2002 Program has been made possible by the support
   and partnership of NFPA, the IAFC and FEMA."

   "Those selected have an opportunity to inform and educate other state
   and local government participants of the many contemporary emergency
   services issues and challenges confronting society."

   NFPA will fund the tuition costs for six individuals; USFA/NFA will
   provide tuition for two. The IAFC will provide assistance with
   interview and program travel expenses for finalists and those selected.

   Eight senior fire executives will be awarded fellowships to attend
   Harvard's annual "Program for Senior Executives in State and Local
   Government." The 3-week program is conducted on the Harvard campus in
   Cambridge, Massachusetts. Selected Fellows would be assigned to attend
   one of the two 2002 session dates: Sunday June 9 - Friday June 28,
   2002, Sunday July 7 - Friday July 26, 2002; or a third session
   scheduled for February of 2003. Applicants must be available to attend
   any one of the three sessions.

   The following criteria and guidelines have been established for the
   2002 program:
     * Application is open to senior fire executives who have demonstrated
       significant career accomplishments and have the potential to impact
       and initiate change. Attainment of a senior position is less
       important than demonstrated experience in facilitating significant
       change within a public sector setting.
     * Preference may be given to applicants who are graduates of the
       NFA's "Executive Fire Officer Program," although program completion
       is not a prerequisite. Preference may also be given to applicants
       who have completed graduate-level degree programs or course work.
     * Individuals whose organizations have been represented in the
       Harvard Fellowship Program during 1999, 2000, or 2001 will not be
       considered. The Program is available to International participants.
     * A FEMA General Admission Application (Form 75-5) is required and
       must be postmarked no later than February 15, 2002. An
       organizational chart of the applicant's sponsoring organization
       (with applicant's position highlighted) is required.

   All applicants are encouraged to include a resume with their
   submission. All packages should be forwarded to the following address:
   Harvard Fellowship Program, U.S. Fire Administration, National Fire
   Academy, c/o Ms. Mary Wingert, 16825 South Seton Ave, Emmitsburg,
   Maryland, 21727.

   For questions contact Ms. Mary Wingert at: (301) 447- 1085 or
   mary.wingert@fema.gov. Semi-finalists will be forwarded complete
   program information and materials for a secondary application process
   that is essay based. For more information please refer to the United
   States Fire Administration/National Fire Academy website
   http://www.usfa.fema.gov/nfa and the Harvard University/John F. Kennedy
   School of Government Senior Executives in State & Local Government
   website http://www.execprog.org/programs/sl/sl.htm

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: November 30, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
