http://edwards.senate.gov/terrorism/cyber_facts.html

                                             Click to return to main page.

                         CYBERTERRORISM ACTS OF 2002
                            SENATOR JOHN EDWARDS

   The threat. A Cyberterrorist attack could shut down power, emergency
   services, and financial institutions. The Code Red and Nimda viruses
   alone have caused more than $3 billion in losses. Hackers have already
   made millions of gallons of sewage to spew onto parks in Australia.
   According to a top research center, security breaches and attacks
   increased by 50% last year.

   The two challenges. Many cyberattacks succeed because people don't
   protect themselves. The first key to cybersecurity is to encourage
   computer users to take proven measures to stop cyberattacks. Examples
   of such "best practices" are using customized passwords or installing
   known "patches" to block intrusions. The second key to cybersecurity is
   to train more researchers and teachers and develop the workforce of
   computer security specialists. Less than 0.5% of computer science
   Ph.D.'s now specialize in cybersecurity, and fewer still go on to teach
   others. These two challenges are like the two sides of fighting
   disease: making sure everyone takes known steps to reduce risks, and
   supporting research to develop innovative medicine.

   The Cyberterrorism Preparedness Act of 2002 would:
     * Establish a nonprofit consortium of academic and private sector
       experts to devise and to promulgate a clear set of "best practices"
       that protect against cyberattack. These "best practices" would have
       to take into account different systems and different security
       needs. The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and
       other experts have recommended a nonprofit cybersecurity
       consortium.
     * Implement "best practices" in government computers first. Because
       government must set the example, the act first mandates a report on
       the best practices the government should adopt, then requires
       adoption of those best practices on a test basis, and then finally
       mandates government-wide adoption as appropriate.
     * Study how best to achieve broad use of best practices in the
       private sector, including the possibility of requiring federal
       grantees and contractors to follow best practices if they take
       taxpayer dollars. The President is authorized to implement
       recommendations.

   The Cybersecurity Research and Education Act of 2002 would:
     * Train more researchers and teachers of cybersecurity. The act funds
       new Information Assurance Fellowships to attract promising doctoral
       students to study cybersecurity, and offers further incentives for
       students to go on to teach in the field. The act creates a
       Distinguished Faculty Sabbatical Program to enable top professors
       to visit leading research institutions, and work on cutting-edge
       projects in cybersecurity. The act also helps academic scholars
       obtain the computing equipment they need to teach and research.
     * Train the new cybersecurity workforce. The act will support a
       "virtual university" dedicated to cybersecurity, with
       internet-based curricula and courseware that workers around the
       country can use. The enhancement of cybersecurity teaching will
       better educate the chief information security officers of tomorrow.

   Back to Previous Page
