http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami/Review98/model_r98.html

    Vasily Titov, Harold Mofjeld, Frank González, Eddie Bernard and Jean
                                Newman, PMEL

                                    Goal

      Use numerical models and analyses of observed tsunamis to develop
                     faster and more reliable forecasts
   of tsunamis striking coastal communities in Alaska, California, Hawaii,
                           Oregon and Washington.

                               Accomplishments

                     Tsunami Generation and Propagation

     •  The MOST (Method of Splitting Tsunami) generation and
         propagation codes were used to simulate the June 10, 1996
   Andreanov
         tsunami. Model results agree very well with deep-ocean records.

     •  Studies using theoretical Airy waves show that even small shifts
         in the arrival times of later wave packets can dramatically
   change
         the times of maximum waves, suggesting a statistical approach
         to forecasting later wave heights in a tsunami.

                         Tsunami Inundation Modeling

     •  The MOST inundation code was tested against field data collected
         shortly after the July 12, 1993 Okushiri tsunami. Good agreement
         was obtained between the model simulation and field measurements.

     •  The very high maximum water velocity computed - more than 30
         knots - is consistent with field estimates. This tremendous
   current
         carried large floating objects (automobiles, small boats, logs,
   etc.) that
         became deadly battering rams; this was the principal mechanism
         responsible for the disastrous damage and loss of 230 lives.

                   Statistical Forecasting During Tsunamis

     •  Based on analyses of observed tsunami time series, amplitude
         envelopes for later tsunami waves can be predicted from the
         waves that have already arrived at a tide gauge site.

     •  Monte Carlo simulations, using wavelet-derived time series,
         verify the coefficients in the short-term forecasting algorithm.

     •  Tides and other background water levels can strongly affect
         the amount of tsunami inundation along the West Coast and
         Alaska; El Niños can elevate the background up to 0.3 m.
         Background water levels are less important in Hawaii.

                              Future Directions

                            Real-Time Forecasting

     •  The MOST model will be used to perform multiple-run sensitivity
         studies of two closely related, but separable, processes-offshore
         wave dependence on distant earthquake magnitude and position,
         and site-specific inundation dependence on offshore wave
   characteristics.

     •  The results will be organized into an electronic database, and
         associated software will be developed for analysis and
   visualization
         of this database, including the assimilation of real-time data
         streams; the goal is to provide guidance for forecasting
         and hazard assessment during actual tsunamis.

     •  Depending on the results of sensitivity studies, it may be
   feasible
         to use a supercomputer version of the MOST model to perform
         real-time computations for emergency guidance during tsunamis

                      http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami

       Funding support provided by NOAA/OAR, DOD/DARPA and DOD/DUSD(S)

                         PMEL 1998 Program Review -
            http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/programs/98prog-agenda.html
