http://gen-iv.ne.doe.gov/content.html

   Gen-IV Moving Foward

   What is Generation IV?

   At the end of 2000, 438 nuclear power reactors were in operation in 31
   countries around the world, generating electricity for nearly 1 billion
   people. They account for approximately 17 percent of worldwide
   installed base load capacity for electricity generation and provide
   half or more of the electricity in a number of countries. These
   reactors are generating electricity in a reliable, environmentally safe
   and affordable manner without emitting noxious gases into the
   atmosphere.

   The Evolution of Nuclear Power

   Concerns over energy resource availability, climate change, air
   quality, and energy security suggest an important role for nuclear
   power in future energy supplies. While the current Generation II and
   III nuclear power plant designs provide an economically, technically,
   and publicly acceptable electricity supply in many markets, further
   advances in nuclear energy system design can broaden the opportunities
   for the use of nuclear energy.

   To explore these opportunities, the U.S. Department of Energy's Office
   of Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology has engaged governments,
   industry, and the research community worldwide in a wide-ranging
   discussion on the development of next-generation nuclear energy systems
   known as "Generation IV". This has resulted in the formation of the
   Generation-IV International Forum (GIF), a group whose member countries
   are interested in jointly defining the future of nuclear energy
   research and development.

   In short, "Generation IV" refers to the development and demonstration
   of one or more Generation IV nuclear energy systems that offer
   advantages in the areas of economics, safety and reliability,
   sustainability, and could be deployed commercially by 2030.

   A Generation IV Technology Roadmap is being prepared by GIF member
   countries which will identify the six to eight most promising reactor
   system and fuel cycle concepts and the R&D necessary to advance these
   concepts for potential commercialization. The Roadmap was initiated in
   October 2000 and is scheduled for completion in September 2002.
