http://law2.house.gov/cod.htm

   #Feedback form

     LRC Home, About Database, Search USC, Download USC, Classification
                                   Tables

  Seal

                             Codification Legislation

                        Office of the Law Revision Counsel



      What Is Positive Law Codification?

         Positive law codification is the process of preparing and enacting, one
         title at a time, a revision and restatement of the general and
         permanent laws of the United States.

         Because many of the general and permanent laws that are required to be
         incorporated into the United States Code are inconsistent, redundant,
         and obsolete, the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House of
         Representatives has been engaged in a continuing comprehensive project
         authorized by law to revise and codify, for enactment into positive
         law, each title of the Code. When this project is completed, all the
         titles of the Code will be legal evidence of the general and permanent
         laws and recourse to the numerous volumes of the United States Statutes
         at Large for this purpose will no longer be necessary.

         Positive law codification bills prepared by the Office do not change
         the meaning or legal effect of a statute being revised and restated.
         Rather, the purpose is to remove ambiguities, contradictions, and other
         imperfections from the law.

      Current Positive Law Codification Projects of the Office

         The Office is currently drafting a bill for the positive law
         codification of title 40 of the Code.

      Recently Enacted Positive Law Codification Projects of the Office

                                        Title 36

         Public Law 105-225 (H.R. 1085) enacted certain general and permanent
         laws related to patriotic and national observances, ceremonies, and
         organizations as title 36 of the Code.

         House Report No. 105-326 (explaining H.R. 1085) contains a
         section-by-section summary of title 36, including citations to the
         source law and an explanation of changes in language. The report also
         contains tables showing the disposition of all laws affected by the
         codification.

                                     Title 49 Update

         Public Law 105-102 (H.R. 1086) amended title 49 of the Code to add
         certain general and permanent laws related to transportation and to
         make technical and conforming changes in title 49 and other titles of
         the Code.

         House Report No. 105-153 (explaining H.R. 1086) contains a
         section-by-section summary of the additions to title 49, including
         citations to the source law and an explanation of changes in language.
         The report also contains tables showing the disposition of all laws
         affected by the codification.

     LRC Home, About Database, Search USC, Download USC, Classification
                                   Tables
