http://www.nssg.gov/addedumpage.htm

   [white.gif] [USEMAP:white.gif]
   aboutus reports
   [white.gif]

   [b2.gif]
   [white.gif]
   [b1.gif]
   [white.gif]
   [b3.gif]


   Hart-Rudman Commission Release Phase III Addendum

                         Structure and Processes Addendum

      The United States Commission on National Security/21st Century, also
      know as the Hart-Rudman Commission, was chartered to review in a
      comprehensive way U.S. national security requirements for the next
      century. It began in Phase I by describing the future security
      environment this nation should anticipate, and in Phase II it
      delineated a strategy to address that futureto cope with the challenges
      and seize the opportunities that will constantly confront this great
      nation. Phase III was focused on changes to the national security
      apparatus, its structures and process, with an aim toward redesigning
      it as necessary to succeed in the security environment that lies
      ahead.

      The Commission anticipated that it could not make credible
      recommendations to improve the national security apparatus without
      first understanding how that apparatus functioned. This document, Road
      Map for National Security: Addendum on Structure and Process Analyses,
      provides a thorough description of this country's national security
      organizations and processes as they existed in mid-2000.

      Before institutional redesigns could occur, or before road maps could
      be constructed to get the national security apparatus headed in the
      appropriate direction, the Commission needed to understand how the
      government was structured and how it went about the business of
      national security. The seven volumes contained in the Addendum analyze
      key organizations and processes throughout the Federal government, to
      include the interagency and inter-branch levels. This Addendum provided
      a "baseline" of the national security apparatus, and was completed in
      draft form by the summer of 2000 as the Commission's main Phase III
      effort began in earnest. It thus laid much of the groundwork for Phase
      III. The first volume was updated and reedited in February and March
      2001. The other volumes remain as originally written.To our knowledge
      no product has been previously produced that describes the national
      security structures and processes of the U.S. government in such
      detail. It should be useful to researchers and professionals seeking a
      detailed analysis of the national security system.

                   Addendum on Structures and Processes Analysis

      Vol I "Key Observations and Overarching Processes"

      Vol II "Executive Office of the President"

      Vol III "Congress"

      Vol IV "Department Of Defense"

      Vol V "Department of State"

      Vol VI "Intelligence Community"

      Vol VII " Executive Branch Activities"

                              DEFENSE REFORM ADDENDUM

      The National Security Study Group (NSSG) prepared this Addendum at the
      original direction of the Commission. Because the Department of Defense
      (DOD) plays a crucial role in national security, the Commission and
      Study Group considered it important to expand on a number of defense
      reform recommendations in the Phase III report, Road Map for National
      Security: Imperative for Change. Of concern were those DOD structural,
      process, and military capability reforms in Section III, D, of the main
      report. The Commission believed that additional explanation and
      analysis would prove useful to those charged with reforming the
      Department. However, we deliberately excluded other defense reform
      topics and recommendations. The Phase III report contains sufficient
      details about DOD support to Homeland Security (Section I) and on
      military personnel reforms (Section IV). In addition, the Commission
      has developed detailed implementation plans for those sections of the
      report (See below).

      Moreover, this Addendum informs a different audience, and contains a
      greater level of detail than the main report. Many senior executives
      would probably not concern themselves with such a "nuts and bolts"
      discussion, but the complexity of defense reform demands further
      elaboration. Thus, this Addendum should also assist interested parties
      in further understanding the Commission's recommendations.

      Stemming from the last distinctionthe intended audiencethis Addendum
      offers more in-depth guidance to accountable authorities. The level of
      detail varies by topic. Part of the Commission's chartered Phase III
      responsibility is to provide "an institutional roadmap" for
      implementation, "when appropriate." In that spirit, the NSSG created
      this Addendum.

                            Creating Defense Excellence

                                EDUCATION ADDENDUM

      The NSSG staff prepared this document at the direction of the
      Commission. Education, particularly science and mathematics education,
      is crucial to national security and to our nation's future. The
      Commission and Study Group considered it important to provide a cost
      estimate of the education reform recommendations in the Phase III
      report, Road Map for National Security: Imperative for Change.

      A clear view of the current and near future state of the nation's
      educational system is critical. Although a significant amount of
      information is available on the public and private school systems, the
      material is dispersed throughout many sources. Worse, it is not always
      suitable for the "operational" analyses required to target and solve
      the many problems faced by the nation's educational system. For this
      reason many indirect estimates and assumptions were necessary in the
      preparation of this Addendum. This report makes a strong effort to be
      very explicit and transparent in all its assumptions. The estimates are
      intended to be approximate.

      Statistics indicate that significant hurdles will have to be overcome
      to address future education requirements. Key among these is the
      tremendous increase in teacher retirements that are projected by 2010.
      The second major problem faced by the education system is the
      insufficient number of students opting to enter science and technology
      fields, particularly in the pursuit of graduate education. A shortage
      of personnel with technical skills already exists today in government,
      in the military, and in industries critical to national security. In
      the absence of public policy remedies, this shortage is likely to grow
      worse.

      The preparation of this report revealed several worrisome problems and
      deficiencies concerning U.S. Department of Education statistics.

                       Journeys Through the Teacher Pipeline

                               Implementation Plans

      The Charter of the United States Commission on National Security/21st
      Century (USCNS/21) also calls for the submission of an implementation
      "roadmap" to complete improvements in the National Security apparatus.
      Accordingly, a companion document, Road Map for National Security:
      Addendum on Implementation, provides those plans with respect to
      implementing the Commission's recommendations on Homeland Security, the
      National Security Council, the Department of State, and Personnel
      Reform.

      These plans demonstrate actions the Executive Branch and the Congress
      can take to implement the Commission's recommendations. They identify
      where responsibilities lie, suggest timelines and sequencing for
      implementation, and discuss the coordination and consultation that must
      occur between the Executive and Legislative Branches to bring the
      Commission's recommendation into being. In addition, the plans address
      the impact of the recommendations on affected agencies' personnel
      levels, where applicable, and identify issues that, unless addressed,
      are likely to impede implementation.

      The implementation plans within the companion Addendum identify whether
      legislation, Executive Orders, or internal departmental actions are
      required to bring USCNS/21 recommendations into being. Where
      legislation or Executive Orders are required, the plans identify their
      key elements and provide draft language.

      The Commission calls for bold and significant change in many areas, and
      it realizes that implementing change is difficult and can take time. It
      is impossible to specify in full detail in advance exactly how to bring
      about positive change in large organizations that deal with complex
      issues. Nevertheless, a start must be made, and this Addendum is
      instrumental to that purpose.

      Road Map For National Security: Addendum on Implementation
      [white.gif]

   [white.gif]
