http://edworkforce.house.gov/press/press107/enron121201.htm

               News from the
               Committee on Education and the Workforce
               John Boehner, Chairman
               FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
               December 12, 2001    CONTACTS: Dave Schnittger
                                    or Kevin Smith
                                    Telephone: (202) 225-4527

      Boehner Says Workforce Committee Will Examine Enron Pension Issue

        WASHINGTON, DC -- Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman
   John Boehner (R-OH) today submitted a statement to the House Financial
   Services Subcommittees on Capital Markets and Oversight &
   Investigations on the important issue of the Enron bankruptcy. The
   subcommittees are holding a joint hearing on the subject today. The
   following are excerpts from the statement:

        “I am concerned about Enron employees and retirees who have
   invested a substantial portion of their retirement assets in Enron
   stock. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) regulates
   employer-sponsored pension plans
   . Many of the issues raised by the Enron bankruptcy involve not only
   the participants in the Enron pension plan but also potentially the
   millions of Americans who depend on their employers’ pension plans for
   their retirement security. ERISA’s cornerstone is a series of strict
   fiduciary standards imposed on individuals or entities that manage
   employees’ assets in company pension plans.”

        “Investing in equities offers rewards in growth but also poses
   risks. This is certainly true of company stock. Enron’s employees who
   held Enron stock in their 401(k) accounts have lost substantial amounts
   of money. On the other hand, employees at many other companies have
   made substantial amounts and therefore have significantly enhanced
   their retirement security
   . Furthermore, on a bipartisan basis over the last 20 years, Congress
   has encouraged the sale of employer stock to employees both
   individually and in their pension plans as a means to provide an extra
   incentive for enhanced job performance and direct participation of an
   employee in the future of their company. We should continue to protect
   these gains and not jeopardize employee holdings by unduly restricting
   this opportunity.”

        “As formal investigations by the SEC and the Labor Department
   uncover the facts about the Enron situation, lawmakers should carefully
   consider whether to amend the law on company stock ownership in pension
   plans. If the conduct in the Enron case was in violation of existing
   law, then the appropriate parties will be held accountable
   . However, the Enron matter may also demonstrate that Congress needs to
   make legislative changes to protect employees. If that is the case, we
   should move quickly and thoughtfully to make those changes.”

        “As the chairman of the committee with jurisdiction over ERISA, I
   assure you that in the next session the committee will carefully
   consider the Enron situation and its implications
   . The committee will examine the issues surrounding the Enron benefits
   plan and its compliance with ERISA and use this information to assess
   how well ERISA protects plan participants. Our consideration of these
   issues will be thorough, fair, and deliberate.”

                                     ###

                               Press Releases
