http://www.disabilities.gov/content/about_us

   Click here to skip to this DisabilityDirect.gov page's main content
   DisabilityDirect.gov Part of the New Freedom Initiative
   Search this site:
   ____________________
   Words: (*) all ( ) any
   submit help

   Home > About DisabilityDirect

   Main Menu
   Categories
   Americans Working Abroad
   Children and Youth
   Choice and Self-Determination
   Civil Rights and Protections
   College and Adult Education
   Disability Statistics
   Emergency Preparedness
   Employers' Resource
   Employment
   Health
   Housing
   Income Support
   Media Resource
   Recreation and Travel
   Self-Employment
   Tax Credits and Deductions
   Technology
   Transportation
   About DisabilityDirect
   July 26, 2000, marks the 10th anniversary of the signing of the
   Americans with Disabilities Act. In celebration of this milestone, the
   Office of Disability Employment Policy created this site,
   www.disabilitydirect.gov, to provide one-stop online access to
   resources, services, and information available throughout the Federal
   government.

   The New Freedom Initiative for People with Disabilities is also part of
   President George W. Bush's administration goals, which calls for
   government to use information technology to deliver government services
   anytime, anywhere. The site supports the adminstrations efforts to
   reduce barriers to the employment of people with disabilities.

   The scope of DisabilityDirect.gov is comprehensive and currently
   includes:

     Americans Working Abroad
     Children and Youth
     Choice and Self-Determination
     Civil Rights and Protections
     College and Adult Education
     Disability Statistics
     Emergency Preparedness
     Employers' Resource
     Employment
     Health
     Housing
     Income Support
     Media Resource
     Recreation and Travel
     Self-Employment
     Tax Credits and Deductions
     Technology
     Transportation

   In addition, DisabilityDirect.gov will highlight current events of
   general interest, such as Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) success
   stories, and information about employment trends, including the ever
   growing demand for technology workers.

   It is our hope that people with disabilities of all ages and their
   families will find the information here useful.

   DisabilityDirect.gov should be viewed as a work in progress. Plans are
   currently underway to expand the breadth of coverage and ultimately
   make this site a one-stop information source for people with
   disabilities.

   Disclaimer
   The DisabilityDirect.gov site links to information created and
   maintained by other public and private organizations. We cannot
   guarantee the content provided by linked sites. Also, linking to other
   web sites does not constitute endorsement of external organizations,
   services, advice or products.

   Remember, our privacy policy is valid only for DisabilityDirect.gov. So
   be sure to read the privacy policies of other sites, especially if you
   share any personal information.

   Linking
   DisabilityDirect.gov's mission is to bring information on Federal
   programs, services, and resources to Americans with disabilities, their
   families, employers, and service providers. We also seek to promote
   awareness of disability issues to the general public. We welcome
   submission of all U.S. government-sponsored or supported web sites that
   support our mission and provide timely and user-friendly information.
   You may submit your requests for adding web site links to
   webmaster@DisabilityDirect.gov.

   Create a Link to DisabilityDirect.gov
   Do you like disabilitydirect.gov? Then link to us and help spread the
   word about our site! Simply copy the code for the button or banner you
   like best and paste it into your web page. And thanks for helping make
   this resource available!

   Link to www.FirstGov.gov Website Sponsored by the Office of Disability
   Employment Policy, U.S. Department of Labor

   Subscribe  |   About Us  |   Privacy/Security  |   Contact Us  |   PDF
   Accessibility

   Served by ww1
