http://www.compliance.gov/images/negot.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, D.C. 20540-1999
   _____________________________________________ ) AFSCME Council 26, ))
   Petitioner, ))) Case No. 00-LMR-03 and ))) Office of the Architect of
   the Capitol, )) Employing Office )
   _____________________________________________ ) Before the Board of
   Directors; Susan S. Robfogel, Chair; Barbara L. Camens; Alan V.
   Friedman; Roberta L. Holzwarth; Barbara Childs Wallace, Members.
   DECISION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS This is a negotiability appeal in
   which the Board must decide whether a proposed collective bargaining
   agreement provision is "inconsistent with any Federal law..." and
   therefore nonnegotiable, pursuant to Section 7117(a)(1) of the Federal
   Service Labor-Management Relations Statute ("FSLRMS"), 5 U.S.C. 7117
   (a)(1), as applied by Section 220(c) of the Congressional
   Accountability Act ("CAA"), 2 U.S.C. 1351(c). The Board is authorized
   to resolve such negotiability appeals under Section 7105(a)(2)(E) of
   the FSLMRS, 5 U.S.C. 7105(a)(2)(E), as applied by Section 220(c)(1) of
   the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1351(c)(1). The proposed contract provision is deemed
   "inconsistent with Federal law" by the employing office, the Office of
   the Architect of the Capitol (hereinafter, "AOC"); AFSCME Council 26
   ("the Union") disagrees and contends that there is no inconsistency
   with the law. In effect, the proposed agreement states that make-whole
   relief, including back pay, may be awarded to bargaining unit employees
   who prevail in binding arbitration, or successfully achieve
   pre-arbitration settlement, under the grievance procedure to be
   incorporated in the parties' collective bargaining agreement. The
   proposal further provides that the parties shall jointly request the
   Office of Compliance to approve such awards and settlements, and direct
   payment pursuant to Section 415(a) of the CAA. The disputed portions of
   the proposal provide that if the Office of Compliance fails to direct
   payment from its Section 415(a) account at the U.S. Treasury, AOC
   itself is then financially responsible for complying with the award or
   settlement.1 The parties agree that their collective bargaining
   agreement must provide a negotiated grievance procedure, including
   binding arbitration. See Section 7121 of the FSLMRS, 5 U.S.C. Section
   7121, as applied by Section 220(a) of the CAA. The parties also agree
   that AOC employees may obtain back pay and other make-whole relief in
   negotiated grievance 1The full text of the disputed proposal is: "The
   parties agree that the arbitrator shall have the authority to award
   make whole relief, including back pay in appropriate circumstances. If
   the arbitrator makes such an award and the Employer determines not to
   file exceptions to the award, or in the event the Board of Directors
   affirms the award after the employer has filed exceptions the parties
   will jointly request the Office of Compliance to approve the award and
   direct payment from its awards and judgments account under Section
   415(a) of the Congressional Accountability Act. In the event the Office
   of Compliance fails to approve the award and direct payment the
   Employer will be responsible for complying with the award. Similarly,
   in the event the parties' settlement of a pending grievance requires
   payment of make whole relief to the grievant(s) the parties will
   jointly request the Office of Compliance to approve the settlement and
   direct payment from the awards and judgments account under Section
   415(a) of the Act. In the event the Office of Compliance fails to
   approve the settlement and direct payment, the Employer will be
   responsible for complying with the settlement." 2 proceedings. However,
   the parties disagree as to the proper source of funding to satisfy such
   awards and settlements. AOC asserts that any requirement that AOC pay
   monetary awards and settlements in negotiated grievance proceedings
   from its own appropriated funds is inconsistent with Federal law.
   Specifically, AOC contends that there is no clear and unequivocal
   statutory authority for it to make back pay payments and, accordingly,
   the doctrine of sovereign immunity applies. Under that doctrine, the
   government is not liable for monetary awards unless its immunity has
   been unequivocally waived. See, e.g., United States v. Nordic Village,
   Inc., 503 U.S. 30 (1992). Further, AOC contends, the CAA itself
   establishes that the sole basis and source of payment for awards and
   settlements under the Act is the Section 415(a) fund administered by
   the Office of Compliance.2 2The full text of Section 415 is: "SECTION
   415. PAYMENTS" "(a) AWARDS AND SETTLEMENTS.& Except as provided in
   subsection (c), only funds which are appropriated to an account of the
   Office in the Treasury of the United States for the payment of awards
   and settlements may be used for the payment of awards and settlements
   under this Act. There are authorized to be appropriated for such
   account such sums as may be necessary to pay such awards and
   settlements. Funds in the account are not available for awards and
   settlements involving the General Accounting Office, the Government
   Printing Office, or the Library of Congress. (b) COMPLIANCE.& Except as
   provided in subsection (c), there are authorized to be appropriated
   such sums as may be necessary for administrative, personnel, and
   similar expenses of employing offices which are needed to comply with
   this Act. (c) OSHA, ACCOMMODATION, AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.& Funds to
   correct violations of section 201(a)(3), 210, or 215 of this Act may be
   paid only from funds appropriated to the employing office or entity
   responsible for correcting such violations. There are authorized to be
   appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such funds." 3 The Union
   maintains that nothing in the CAA, or other provision of Federal law,
   bars AOC from submitting disputes to binding arbitration that may
   result in its paying back pay or other make-whole relief from its own
   funds. The Union also asserts that Section 415(a) of the CAA should not
   apply to arbitration awards or settlements under the parties'
   collective bargaining agreement, as such awards and settlements do not
   constitute awards and settlements "under this Act" within the meaning
   of Section 415(a). Rather, the Union contends, Section 415(b) covers
   awards and settlements in grievance cases because it expressly
   authorizes appropriations for "administrative, personnel, and similar
   expenses of employing offices which are needed to comply with this
   Act." 2 U.S.C. Section 1415(b). We address, first, AOC's sovereign
   immunity argument. It is true, of course, that a waiver of the Federal
   government's sovereign immunity must be expressed unequivocally in
   statutory text. It is also true, as AOC points out, that AOC is not one
   of the agencies identified in the 1966 Back Pay Act, 5 U.S.C. 5596(a),
   as authorized to make back pay payments to agency employees who
   successfully challenge "unwarranted personnel actions". Id. But the
   1966 Back Pay Act is not the only statutory basis for finding a waiver.
   Section 7122 of the FSLMRS explicitly authorizes the payment in
   grievance cases of back pay by covered Federal government entities: "An
   agency shall take the actions required by an arbitrator's final award.
   The award may include the payment of back pay (as provided in section
   5596 of this title)." 5 U.S.C. 7122(b) 4 When Congress enacted the CAA
   in 1995, it expressly extended the rights, protections, and
   responsibilities contained in Section 7122 of the FSLMRS to AOC and its
   employees. (See, Section 220(a) of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1351(a).) By doing
   so, Congress made its intention clear to subject the employing offices
   to back pay obligations in the same manner as the Federal agencies
   covered by the FSLMRS and the Back Pay Act, and thereby effectively and
   unambiguously waived AOC's immunity. There was, therefore, no need to
   amend the Back Pay Act to accomplish an effective waiver of sovereign
   immunity. Thus, we conclude, the CAA provides that AOC employees are
   entitled to obtain back pay and related relief in negotiated grievance
   procedures. However, the question remains as to the proper source of
   payment for such relief. According to AOC, the only proper source for
   such monetary relief is the U. S. Treasury account established in
   Section 415(a). According to the Union, however, the employing office
   may properly be required to pay such sums from its own appropriated
   funds pursuant to Section 415(b). This dispute presents the Board with
   an important issue of first impression: is an arbitrator's award or
   settlement providing back pay or other make-whole relief in a contract
   grievance one of those "awards and settlements" which must be satisfied
   only from the Section 415(a) U.S. Treasury account? The parties have
   not cited and we have not found any judicial or administrative
   precedent. Our task then is to discern, as best we can, what Congress
   intended, as evidenced by the text and structure of the CAA itself, and
   its legislative history. 5 Section 415(a) provides that, with certain
   inapplicable exceptions, "only funds which are appropriated to an
   account of the Office in the Treasury of the United States for the
   payment of awards and settlements may be used for the payment of awards
   and settlements under this Act." 2 U.S.C. 1415(a) (emphasis supplied).
   It is argued that an arbitration award or grievance settlement in a
   negotiated grievance procedure does not fit this description, even
   though it is the CAA ("this Act") that imposes upon AOC and other
   covered entities the duty to establish a negotiated grievance procedure
   including binding arbitration. See 5 U.S.C. Section 7121, as applied by
   Section 220 (a)(1) of the CAA. The Union contends that the phrase
   "awards and settlements under this Act" applies only to those awards
   and settlements resolving violations of the labor and employment
   statutes incorporated in the CAA. Given the important and well-
   established distinction between contractual rights and statutory rights
   under the FSLMRS, and in labor-management law generally, there is some
   basis for an interpretation of Section 415(a) that would differentiate
   between remedies for breach of contract and remedies for statutory
   violations. Although awards and settlements in negotiated grievance
   procedures are not expressly covered under Section 415(b) of the CAA, 2
   U.S. C. 1415(b), the Union proposes a broad interpretation of Section
   415(b), which authorizes appropriations for "administrative, personnel,
   and similar expenses of employing offices which are needed to comply
   with this Act." The quoted phrase in Section 415 (b) is, indeed,
   susceptible to different meanings. Viewed out of context, it might well
   be read to embrace back pay for any employees who were paid less than 6
   their bargaining agreement&as interpreted by an arbitrator& actually
   required. But we cannot adopt this broad interpretation of Section
   415(b). First, we note that Section 415(b) appears as one of several
   related subsections, which were intended to be read together. Section
   415(a), fairly read, supports a narrow reading of Section 415(b)
   because it purports to govern all awards and settlements: " ...only
   [Section 415(a)] funds... may be used for the payment..." (emphasis
   supplied). Moreover, Section 415(a) prohibits the use of its fund for
   awards and settlements involving certain specified legislative entities
   (e.g., the General Accounting Office) or to correct violation of
   certain substantive provisions of the CAA (e.g., Section 215, regarding
   occupational safety and health). If Congress had intended to preclude
   Section 415(a) from being used to satisfy arbitration awards, it might
   therefore have been expected to express this exclusion as well.
   Finally, we note that the legislative history of Section 415(b) also
   supports a narrower reading than the Union proposes. The following
   discussion of Section 415(b) appears in the section-by-section analysis
   of the Senate version of the bill (S.2) that ultimately became the CAA
   which was introduced into the Congressional Record by Senators Grassley
   and Lieberman, sponsor and co-sponsor of the bill, respectively:
   Subsection (b) provides that, except as provided in subsection (c),
   there are authorized appropriations of such sums as may be necessary
   for administrative, personnel and similar expenses of employing offices
   which are needed to comply with this Act. These expenses could be such
   items as funding management side labor negotiations under Section 220.
   These expenses are costs of adhering to the Act, but not costs of
   complying with adjudicative decisions remediating violations, which are
   addressed in Section 415. 7 141 Cong. Rec. S621-02 (January 9, 1995).
   In our view, these remarks reveal that the true function of Section
   415(b) is to deal with certain on-going employer compliance expenses
   which are unrelated to the costs of complying with particular judgments
   and awards, such as the costs attributable to hiring more employees to
   perform the labor relations functions required by enactment of the CAA.
   Since the Union's disputed contract proposal clearly would impose
   responsibility upon AOC to pay a back pay award or settlement from its
   own appropriated funds under certain circumstances, and since Section
   415(a), as we have construed it, requires payment of such awards and
   settlements from the OOC account at the U.S. Treasury, the disputed
   proposal is, to that extent, inconsistent with Federal law.
   Accordingly, it is nonnegotiable.3 For the reasons set forth above, the
   Union's petition/appeal is denied. IT IS SO ORDERED Issued, Washington,
   D.C., January 29, 2001. 3The distinction between the costs of complying
   with an award and the costs of complying with the statute may, in some
   situations, be difficult to discern. Some grievance awards and
   settlements might, for example, impose permanent obligations of a
   continuing nature & such as training or record-keeping functions& upon
   an employing office. We need not, and do not, hold that any and all
   such awards or settlements must be satisfied from Section 415(a). 8
