http://secstate.wa.gov/special_programs.asp

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

                                                    [USEMAP:buttons_1.gif]
   space
   space
   Special Programs

   Address Confidentiality Washington State's innovative program to assist
   victims of domestic violence or sexual assault who are attempting to
   relocate and avoid further abuse and harassment.

   Apostilles Apostille and authentication information for documents that
   need to be sent to a foreign country.

   Charities Consumer-related information about organizations and
   commercial fundraisers involved in soliciting the public for charitable
   donations.

   Electronic Authentication Information about the state's Electronic
   Authentication Act and digital signatures, including listing and
   current status of Certification Authorities and Recognized Repositories
   licensed under the act.

   Initiatives Lists of proposed initiatives to the people and the
   Legislature, procedures and forms for filing a proposed initiative.

   Medals of Merit & Valor - Information on the the Medals of Merit and
   Valor, the highest honors presented by the people of Washington,
   including a history of recipients, laws and nominating procedures.

   Oral History Preserving the recollections of legislators, state
   officials and citizens who have been involved with the state's
   political history.

   Productivity Board Promoting government cost reductions and savings
   through state employee involvement and incentive programs. (formerly
   EIRB)

   State Seal History of the Washington State Seal and statutes governing
   its use.

   State Flag History of the Washington State Flag with statutes
   governings use and guidelines for public display.

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
