http://www.intl.faa.gov/intfaqs.cfm

   Skip to Main Content Welcome to FAA International Aviation On-Line

   Skip to Main Content
   Home     Site Map     What's New     DOT     Ask FAA




   International Home
   Frequent Questions
   About Us

   Information For
   Civil Aviation Officials
   Non-U.S. Operators
   U.S. Operators
   Regions
   Americas
   Asia-Pacific
   Europe, Africa,
   Middle East
   General Information
   Answer Book
   CAAs of the World
   Code-Sharing
   Flight Info Manual
   Foreign Airport Security
   GPS
   ICAO
   IGIA
   Insurance
   Notices to Airmen
   Open Skies
   Overflight Fees
   Restrictions
   RVSM
   Safety Agreements
   System Safety
   Training
   International Links


                         Frequently Asked Questions


         Are there ratings on the safety of foreign airlines?

 The FAA does not assess or rate the safety of individual foreign air
    carriers. The FAA does, however, assess whether a country meets
 international standards for aviation safety oversight if the country
has at least one airline serving the United States. Aviation oversight
   refers to how a country oversees and regulates the safety of its
       airlines, and these ratings are available to the public.

 The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) separately assesses some foreign
air carriers for suitability as official providers of air services. For
    information regarding the Defense Department policy on specific
         carriers, travelers may contact DoD at 618-229-4801.

    How can I learn about and apply for FAA international training
                               programs?

Aviation professionals and organizations can obtain information on the
   FAA Academy's International Training Program, including available
     training courses and associated costs, through the Office of
                        International Aviation.

   What do I need to do so my airline can begin scheduled passenger
                     service to the United States?

If your government does not have a bilateral air transport agreement or
  Open Skies agreement with the United States, your government should
    approach the U.S. Embassy, which will assist your government in
            concluding any necessary bilateral agreements.

  Once an agreement is in place between our governments, your airline
    will need to apply to the U.S. Department of Transportation for
                 economic authority to serve the U.S.

If your country does not already have carrier service to the U.S., your
application to the Department of Transportation for economic authority
will subsequently require the FAA to conduct an International Aviation
     Safety Assessment to assess your government's compliance with
    International Civil Aviation Organization standards for safety
                              oversight.

  If your airline plans to fly non-stop to the United States, the FAA
  also is required to conduct a security assessment of the airport(s)
serving as the carrier's last point(s) of departure to the U.S. Through
a formal process, the Secretary of Transportation and the FAA determine
    whether the airport(s) is in compliance with ICAO standards for
                          aviation security.

After the FAA has found your government and the airport(s) in question
  to be in compliance with international standards, your airline will
then need to work with the FAA to obtain an air carrier certificate and
                      operations specifications.

  What are the FAA's aircraft dispatcher requirements for foreign air
                               carriers?

The FAA does not require foreign air carriers operating into the United
        States to employ FAA certificated aircraft dispatchers.

 What are the requirements for flying in a particular foreign country?

By international agreement, the international civil aviation system is
   set up so that each country is responsible for developing rules,
regulations and enforcement procedures for its territory. We recommend
 contacting the civil aviation authority in that country for details.

   Where do I direct complaints about lost baggage on international
                               flights?

    All lost baggage and other complaints about the service on U.S.
   airlines should be directed to the Department of Transportation's
                Aviation Consumer Protection Division.

  What immunizations do I need for and what are the health risks in a
                      particular foreign country?

 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is the U.S. Government
               authority on international travel health.

When are insecticides sprayed on international flights to and from the
                            United States?

 The United States no longer requires the spraying of insecticides on
international flights arriving in the U.S. However, travelers should be
   aware that some countries require that insecticides be sprayed on
 international flights arriving in those countries. The few countries
      that do have requirements use various methods for applying
                             insecticides.

  In addition, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant
 Health Inspection Service is charged with protecting U.S. agriculture
  from insects. All travelers to the United States are encouraged to
                    review the entry requirements.

  What are the requirements for traveling with pets on international
                               flights?

 The U.S. Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection
 Service regulates traveling with pets on international flights to the
                      continental United States.

In addition, Hawaii, U.S. territories, and certain foreign governments
     have quarantine or health requirements for arriving pets. For
information on Hawaii's requirements, contact your State Veterinarian's
    office. For U.S. territories and foreign countries, contact the
appropriate embassy, governmental agency, or consulate at least 4 weeks
                              in advance.

   You may also contact a full-service travel agency for assistance.

 Additional airline requirements also exist for international flights.
    These rules may require additional ventilation, labeling, and a
  shipper's certification. Contact your airline for information about
                          these requirements.

     Are foreign airlines that code-share with U.S. airlines safe?

The FAA requires U.S. airlines that code-share with foreign airlines to
    conduct a safety audit using established guidelines before the
  Department of Transportation approves the code-sharing arrangement.

         Why do U.S. airlines not fly over certain countries?

   The FAA prohibits U.S. airlines and operators from flying in the
  airspace of certain countries due to specific and continuing safety
 concerns. Trade sanctions, U.S. military operations, directives from
    the President of the United States, and other restrictions also
       preclude U.S. airlines from flying over other countries.

  What are the career opportunities in international civil aviation?

   The FAA has a number of offices involved in international policy,
operations, law, safety and security. Please search the current vacancy
              announcements for international positions.

The FAA also is looking for qualified U.S. citizens who are looking for
challenging positions in international aviation. If you are interested
   in employment with the International Civil Aviation Organization
    (ICAO), the FAA can assist you in matching your skills against
    announced ICAO vacancies. Take a look at our ICAO Skills Bank.

  Contact us for more information regarding our ICAO Skills Bank, the
 ICAO hiring process, and ICAO pay and benefits. Please note that ICAO
 pay is listed as net pay rather than gross pay, as is the custom for
 jobs in the United States. All ICAO benefits and entitlements must be
    considered for an accurate comparison with your present pay and
                               benefits.

 Please note that ICAO pay is listed as net pay rather than gross pay,
 as is the custom for jobs in the United States. All ICAO benefits and
 entitlements must be considered for an accurate comparison with your
                       present pay and benefits.

                 __________________________________________________________________

              Accessibility
              Return to International Homepage Web Policy
                Federal Aviation Administration
              800 Independence Avenue, S.W.
              Washington, DC 20591
              For content feedback and suggestions:
              Email us at 9-AWA-AIA-COMMENTS@FAA.Gov
              For Technical issues:
              Email us at: 9-AWA-AIA-TECHNICAL@FAA.Gov
