http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov/nasa-nde/yosi/yosi.htm


Dr. Yoseph Bar-Cohen

   Biography
   Dr. Yoseph Bar-Cohen is a physicist specializing in ultrasonic NDE and
   electroactive materials and mechanism. He is a Senior Research
   Scientist, Group Leader and the Resident NDE Expert at the Jet
   Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) responsible for the Nondestructive
   Evaluation and Advance Actuators (NDEAA) Technologies (
   http://ndeaa.jpl.nasa.gov/) thrust. He established the NDEAA Lab in
   1991 leading to a series of innovative concepts and mechanisms for
   planetary explorations, medical, commercial and other applications. Dr.
   Bar-Cohen is an Adjunct Professor at the University of California, Los
   Angeles (UCLA) and a Fellow of the American Society for Nondestructive
   Testing (ASNT). Two notable discoveries of Dr. Bar-Cohen are the leaky
   Lamb waves (LLW) and polar backscattering phenomena in composite
   materials. He received his Ph. D. in Physics (1979) and M.Sc. in
   Materials Science (1973) from the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.
   Currently, he is responsible for developing electroactive polymer
   actuators (artificial muscles), ultrasonic drill, piezoelectric motors,
   piezoelectric pump, ultrasonic NDE methods, real time sensing,
   geophysical probing techniques, haptic interfaces, and high power
   ultrasonic techniques. His prior affiliations include Israel Aircraft
   Industry (1971-1979), Postdoc at AFML (1979-1980), SRL (1980-1983) and
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1983-1991). His scientific and engineering
   accomplishments have earned him the 2001 NASA Honor Award: NASA
   Exceptional Engineering Achievement Medal, the 2001 SPIEs NDE Life Time
   Achievement Award, the ASNTs 2002 Lester Honor Lecture Award and many
   other honors and awards.
   He has made significant contributions to NDE of aging aircraft
   structures, composites and bonded solids. He led the development of a
   crawler, known as MACS (Multifunctional Automated Crawling System) that
   can serve as a robotic platform for PC board base instruments. As a
   follow-on effort, he edited and co-authored an ASNT book on the subject
   of robotics for NDE, which was issued in April 2000. Other
   contributions include real time monitoring of composites curing,
   broadband transducers, catheter-based acoustic microscope and an LLW
   device for nondestructive determination of elastic properties of
   composites.
   His initiatives and proactive efforts in the area of Electroactive
   Polymers led to the SPIEs EAPAD annual conference (which he is chairing
   for the third time), the WW-EAP Newsletter with four issues so far, and
   the WW-EAP Webhub. This website is part of his JPL's NDEAA website that
   received over million total hits in about 18-months from January 1,
   2000 to July 2 2001 (with over 87,000 unique hits). Moreover, the book
   on the subject of EAP, for which he is the Editor and co-author, was
   published in March 2001 by SPIE Press.
   His research and accomplishments with his teams received coverage in
   NASA Press Releases, JPL's Universe, and media articles including daily
   newspapers (LA Times, Newsday, The Sunday Times, Diariovasco, Maariv,
   etc.), magazines (Aerospace America, Aviation Week, Business Week,
   Discover, Smart Business, Poptronics, Time, Popular Science Monthly,
   etc.), and technically related websites (Discovery Channel, MSNBC,
   RobotBooks.com, Nando Times News, etc.), as well as radio and TV
   interviews.
   He made over 210 publications, numerous presentations at national and
   international conferences, Chaired/CoChaired 10 Conferences, has
   14-registered patents and he is the editor of 2 books and 4 conference
   proceedings. Moreover, he is an Associate Editor of the International
   Journal of Structural Health Monitoring (IJSHM).
                                                                          Yosi


Resume and Publications


   [blueball.gif] Resume
   [blueball.gif] Honors and Awards
   [blueball.gif] Books and Proceedings
   [blueball.gif] Chapters of Handbooks
   [blueball.gif] List of Publications
   [blueball.gif] List of Patents
   [blueball.gif] List of NASA New Technology Reports
   [blueball.gif] List of Standards and Process Specifications
   [blueball.gif] List of Newsletters
   [blueball.gif] NDE and Advanced Actuators (NDEAA) Technologies activity
          Dr. Bar-Cohen and NDEAA - in "Who's Who in NASA", NASA Tech
          Briefs, Nov. 2001

   For more information you can contact:
   Dr. Yoseph Bar-Cohen, Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), M.S. 82-105,
   4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109-8099
   Phone: 818-354-2610 Fax: 818-393-3254 E-Mail: yosi@jpl.nasa.gov
To return to:

   [blueball.gif] NDEAA Webhub
   [blueball.gif] Robotics homepage
