http://www.centennialofflight.gov/disclaimer.htm

                  Experience Kitty Hawk, NC, Dec. 17, 1903


   [blackpixel.gif] Centennial of Flight Commission
                    Animation
                    A Century of Wings



                          What's New!

                          Home
                          About the Commission
                          National Plan
                          Calendar of Events
                            •Search Events Calendar
                          Wright Brothers History
                          For Educators & Students
                            •Matrix
                            •Posters & Bookmark
                          History of Aviation
                          Future of Flight
                          Exhibit Info & Brochure

                          Aviation Sights & Sounds


   Disclaimer

   We want to be as informative as we can for our visitors, so some of our
   links may take you to commercial web sites, while others may connect
   you with organizations soliciting funds to help support particular
   events or programs. However, the Centennial of Flight Commission does
   not endorse any commercial products that may be found through links
   from our website, nor do we endorse any solicitations for funds to
   support activities or programs that may be linked to our web site.

   Events or links listed on the Centennial of Flight Commission's Web
   site do not imply any guarantee or warranty, express or implied, of the
   events or links, nor of any of the products, services or fundraising
   activities associated with the sites linked directly or indirectly to
   the Commission's Web site. The Commission is not liable for any direct,
   indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary damages or
   lost profit resulting from any of the information included on the site.

   The pages on this Web site have been reviewed and revised to be
   accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with
   provisions of Section 508 of the Workforce Investment Act and Americans
   with Disabilities Act. If you are having a problem accessing a
   Centennial of Flight Commission Web site, please let us know and we
   will work to ensure accessibility.

   Every effort has been made to provide the most accurate information
   possible. If you believe that an inappropriate or inaccurate event or
   link is listed on this site, please feel free to contact us.

   Official Commission Website
   Curator: Official Commission Website
   Contact Us | Technical Questions
