http://clear.search.gov/clearinghouse.html

                               Access America
                    Updated 1 FEB 2000 Comments welcome!
                 http://clear.search.gov/clearinghouse.html

                                    DRAFT

  What is the U.S. Federal Government Information Clearinghouse?

   The goals of the United States Federal Government Information
   Clearinghouse ("Clearinghouse") are:
      (1) to help people easily locate and access U.S. Federal Government
   information and electronic services, and,
      (2) to encourage the use of standards to create and expand access
   mechanisms for information and on-line services.

   Clearinghouse allows for organizing data content across organizations
   and cuts across agency system boundaries. It facilitates use of
   Information Infrastructure standards that serve agency and public
   access mandates by providing a common utility for people to find
   government information and services.

  What is the scope of Clearinghouse?

   Clearinghouse encompasses all information and services compiled or
   organized by any source that uses the adopted standards and policies.
   This includes all Federal government information on public Web pages,
   whether publicized through a government agency or other intermediary.

   Clearinghouse leverages the extensive training, support, outreach, and
   public access infrastructure investments already made by the agencies
   and by established institutions such as the Federal Depository Library
   Program. However, the eventual scope and sustainability of
   Clearinghouse depends on the level of cooperation that can be
   instituted.

   There are already a number of "portals" to Clearinghouse, and many more
   will be established, in the private and well as the public sector.
   Federal agency portals include, for example: the Government Printing
   Office "GPO Access" facility, the National Spatial Data Infrastructure
   Clearinghouse for Geospatial Data, the National Biological Information
   Infrastructure Metadata Clearinghouse, DoD DefenseLink, and the
   "WebGov" facility being prototyped by the General Services
   Administration.

   Because of the interoperable standards adopted for Clearinghouse, many
   other facilities can be easily incorporated, including information
   resources of Department of Energy, Library of Congress, National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Library of Medicine,
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Patent and Trademark
   Office, U.S. Geological Survey, and a wide range of other agency and
   multi-agency facilities such as the various "one-stop-shop" Web sites.
   Private sector interest in portals for Electronic Government has
   included corporations such as America Online, Environmental Systems
   Research Institute, the Internet Archive, and Oracle.

  How does Clearinghouse relate to other Federal laws and policies about public
  access?

   Certain laws and policies bind all U.S. Federal agencies, briefly
   described in Appendix A, "Information Policy Issues". These include
   equity and permanence of public access, privacy, security, records
   management, Freedom of Information, Americans with Disabilities,
   Federal Depository Library, OMB Circular A-130, and OMB Memorandum
   98-5. Although agencies can contract support for public access to
   government information, they cannot delegate statutory
   responsibilities.

   Agencies must provide a "level playing field" by offering open and
   equal access to their public holdings; and cannot grant
   "copyright-like" or exclusive privileges to their public material. All
   Clearinghouse partners must communicate that the government information
   is in the public domain.

   Participating federal agencies must comply with the Clearinghouse
   "Collection Policy" agreed among the partners. This policy specifies
   how participating agencies offer Government information and comply with
   various intellectual property, privacy, security, and other constraints
   concerning public access to Government information.

  Why is a Clearinghouse needed?

   Huge volumes and wide diversity in U.S. Federal Government information
   present fundamental challenges to making information and services easy
   to find and use. The low cost of Internet publishing has resulted in
   many thousands of information outlets. These range from simple delivery
   of ready-to-view documents to complex information services backed up by
   forms and sophisticated databases. Besides the rapid Internet
   evolution, there is a ongoing need to help people find government
   information that is not Internet-accessible. This includes telephone
   advice, paper media, CD-ROM's, electronic bulletin boards, and many
   others data types and services.

   Diversity of systems across agencies has been a longstanding barrier to
   such cooperation. As more and more agencies implement systems using
   common standards, a relatively modest investment of resources can
   result in significant public access enhancement. This is especially
   true of traditional bibliographic government information, but these
   common standards have recently grown to include Internet and other
   kinds of data resources as well.

   The rising public demand for access to government information, together
   with the lower cost of interoperability now that common standards are
   available, gives rise to a strong opportunity to build a
   government-wide Clearinghouse that is immediately useful as well as
   sustainable. Thus, the partners involved will need to allocate
   resources to maintain their commitments over the long term.

  What is the Clearinghouse Partnership?

   Clearinghouse standards and policies are delineated by the
   Clearinghouse Partnership, a consortium of government and other
   organizations participating in Clearinghouse.

   Anyone and any organization can make information accessible using the
   standards and policies adopted by Clearinghouse. Participating
   organizations are not required to join the Clearinghouse Partnership.

   The Clearinghouse Partnership should include U.S. Federal government
   partners such as the General Services Administration, the National
   Partnership for Reinventing Government, the Chief Information Officers
   Council, the Government Information Technology Services Board, the
   Government Printing Office, and the Library of Congress, among others.
   Partners outside of the U.S. Federal Government will include private
   sector corporations and consortia; non-government organizations and
   representatives of the public interest; voluntary standards
   organizations, and experts in academia. The Clearinghouse Partnership
   will coordinate with other government entities, including U.S. States,
   tribal and local governments, other national governments, and some
   international organizations such as agencies of the United Nations.

   The Clearinghouse Partnership organization meets semiannually, to
   establish or modify policy and guidelines for participating Partners.
   Membership in the Clearinghouse Partnership is voluntary.

  How does Clearinghouse make information easier to find?

   Clearinghouse uses the Internet infrastructure, including the
   international standard Global Information Locator Service (GILS) and
   other standards. Clearinghouse is therefore not specific to government
   information, rather it is part of the pervasive information
   infrastructure. Clearinghouse achieves consensus about use of these
   standards between government and non-government organizations as it
   adopts and creates infrastructure standards.

   The Clearinghouse assumption is that people already know a few simple
   bibliographic concepts like Title, Author, and Subject, and are
   familiar with organizing mechanisms like catalogs and directories.
   Clearinghouse 'locator records' are designed to be similar to those in
   use in catalogs, libraries and information services worldwide. This
   means that people can search hundreds of databases without switching
   between interfaces. The Clearinghouse search mechanism works whether a
   searcher starts at a federal site or other facilities like public
   libraries or commercial services.

   Clearinghouse will include catalogs wherein each "locator record"
   characterizes a government information resource. The selected
   characteristics of government information resources, described in
   Appendix B "Metadata Elements", are designed for interoperability with
   the wide range of library and information services that all derive from
   the widely-understood bibliographic base. Such bibliographic control
   techniques have proven easy to generalize. Today, information services
   worldwide routinely use bibliographic techniques to characterize not
   only books but also e-mail, news, community resources, government
   agencies, museum artifacts, spatial data, etc. Clearinghouse
   participants may develop locator records through a combination of
   machine-aided cataloging and cooperative editing by the holding agency
   and centralized catalogers.

   "Subject" is an especially useful characteristic of information
   resources, because searchers are often focused on finding just those
   resources that concern a specific subject area. Clearinghouse will
   promote multiple ways of delineating Subject terms, discussed in
   Appendix C "Classification Schemes".

   In addition to searching for specific information resources, users are
   often interested in locating a range of information resources
   associated with a subject area, as well as those associated with
   broader, narrower, and related subject areas. A "browse tree" can be
   generated for this purpose, using either a given Classification Scheme
   or an algorithm that analyzes semantic relationships among concepts in
   text. For the sake of convenience and system performance, the more
   popular browse trees, as determined through public input, can be stored
   as "canned searches" or ready-to-view Web pages.

   The generation of browse trees from a base of catalog information is a
   logical response to lessons learned from having developed many
   "one-stop-shop" sites and gateways such as "U.S. Business Advisor",
   "Non-Profit Gateway", "Federal Resources for Educational Excellence",
   "Access for Students", "Access for Seniors", etc. Technology for such a
   facility is now widely available under various brand names from Alta
   Vista, Infoseek, Verity, and other search engine and knowledge
   management software vendors.

Appendix A: Information Policy Issues

  A.1. Law and Policy on Agency Government Information

   Information required of agencies under laws and policy discussed here
   will be reflected in Clearinghouse, as an aggregate of information
   separately accessible through agency Websites and with existing systems
   for public access such as those already being supported by the
   Government Printing Office under the Cataloging and Indexing, Federal
   Depository Library, and GPO Access Programs (44 U.S.C Chapters 17, 19,
   and 41). The development and maintenance of this information in
   Clearinghouse will be accomplished in cooperation with agencies. Other
   relevant law and implementing regulations include: Paperwork Reduction
   Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), Freedom of Information Act as amended in
   1996 (5 U.S.C. 552), Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), Information
   Technology Management Reform Act (40 U.S.C. Chapter 25), Computer
   Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 759 note), Federal Records Act (44
   U.S.C. Chapters 29, 31, 33, and 35), National Archives and Records
   Administration regulations (36 CFR Chapter 12, Subchapter B, "Records
   Management"), OMB Circular A-130, "Management of Federal Information
   Resources," 61 FR 6428 (February 20, 1996), and OMB Memorandum 98-5
   "Guidance on the Government Information Locator Service".

   The Paperwork Reduction Act and OMB Circular A-130 require agencies to
   maintain a diversity of sources of public information and timely and
   equitable access must be provided to the information as well as to the
   underlying data. Following the requirements under law and OMB guidance
   on implementing the Government Information Locator Service, agencies
   should identify on their Websites where the agency GILS records are
   maintained. Agency Websites should include locating aids to any other
   electronic dissemination and access programs. Agencies should also
   identify on their Websites an alternate, non-electronic access method
   including an agency point of contact handling non-electronic requests.

  A.2. Policy Pertinent to Clearinghouse Itself

   All Clearinghouse records maintained by Clearinghouse will be offered
   free of charge on the Internet and without restrictions of their access
   or use worldwide. Clearinghouse records will also be accessible through
   a GILS-compliant Internet interface, which permits direct access by
   searchers and allows other intermediaries to create derivative
   products. Formats of locator records and cataloging tools such as
   terminologies will be in the public domain. Commercial and other
   intermediaries will be encouraged to use Clearinghouse information in
   other services, although some of the information resources referenced
   by the locator records may have associated fees or restrictions on
   access or use.

   Clearinghouse will include information resources as defined in OMB
   Circular A-130 or the Federal Depository Library Program, and which are
   publicly accessible. Coverage of resources in the Legislative and
   Judicial Branches will be achieved primarily through incorporation of
   the many resources of GPO. (GPO maintains over 1200 databases of
   government information, including extensive coverage of the Executive
   Branch.) Clearinghouse will offer direct access to many resources but
   should also be viewed as a referral service. An extensive breadth of
   resources will be referenced, but detailed information will often be
   aggregated for reasons of sheer volume and the dynamic nature of
   decentralized information.

   The information in Clearinghouse records will be used to create various
   navigation mechanisms, including full-text search, structured metadata
   search, and various browse modes. In some instances, the referenced
   information resource will be itself a GILS-compliant search service,
   e.g., the Geospatial Data Clearinghouse. The user of Clearinghouse will
   then be able to continue searching with either the Clearinghouse
   interface or the search interface of the other service. (Users who
   begin at the other service can have the same option of searching
   Clearinghouse content using either interface.)

   Although Clearinghouse itself makes no assertion as to the quality of
   information provided by the holding agency, it is important to
   recognize that skilled reviewers are needed to ascertain what are
   official and authentic Federal information resources. The Clearinghouse
   will benefit greatly in this respect from its partnerships with GPO and
   others. Information in Clearinghouse will be reviewed as to its
   authenticity and locator records will be digitally signed. Locator
   records maintained by Clearinghouse will be reviewed for accuracy at
   least annually, and will be maintained for permanent public access
   through an arrangement with GPO. Log records of access to Clearinghouse
   will be for operations and maintenance purposes only, and usage will
   not be tracked to individual persons. Web pages will be compliant with
   the Americans with Disabilities Act. The operator of Clearinghouse will
   solicit feedback on the system effectiveness, performance, results, and
   plans from significant public stakeholders and user communities.

Appendix B: Metadata Elements

   Clearinghouse will include catalogs of locator records that
   characterize government information resources, often at the level of a
   Web server or a higher level aggregate of resources. The locator record
   is a variety of "metadata" and consists of a limited number of elements
   selected to support reasonably precise search without incurring high
   cataloging costs.

   The following elements may be found in the locator records. The
   definitions of these elements are consistent with bibliographic
   cataloging and follow ISO 11179 and Basic Semantic Registry practice.

     Title:
     The name given as the distinctive designation of the information
     resource.

     Originator:
     The name of the originator of the information resource. (see
     Appendix C "Classification Schemes")

     Language-of-Resource:
     The code identifying the language of the information resource. (This
     value may be defaulted to "en" for English.)

     Abstract:
     The text describing the information resource.

     Controlled-Subject-Index:
     The controlled vocabulary associated with the subject of the
     information resource. (see Appendix C "Classification Schemes")

     Spatial-Domain:
     The set of geographic designations of the coverage of the
     information resource. (This value may be defaulted to "Place =
     United States". Also, see Appendix C "Classification Schemes")

     Linkage:
     The identifier of the address of the cross-referenced information
     resource. (By convention on the Internet, the identifier is
     expressed as a URL or URN.)

     Access-Constraints:
     The constraints on access to the information resource. (This value
     may be defaulted to "none".)

     Use-Constraints:
     The text describing the constraints on use of the information
     resource. (This value may be defaulted to "none".)

     Point-of-Contact:
     The party acting as contact for the information resource. (The party
     may be a person, an organization, or both.)

     Control-Identifier:
     The identifier of the locator record of the information resource.
     (This value is generated by the organization maintaining the
     catalog.)

     Record-Source:
     The identifier of the source of the locator record of the
     information resource. (This value is the name of the organization
     maintaining the catalog.)

     Language-of-Record:
     The code of the language of the locator record of the information
     resource. (This value may be defaulted to "en" for English.)

     Date-of-Last-Modification:
     The date of last modification of the locator record of the
     information resource. (This value is generated by the organization
     maintaining the catalog.)

Appendix C: Classification Schemes

   Clearinghouse will promote multiple ways to classify the various
   holdings of government information across U.S. Federal agencies. These
   organizing approaches are based on any of several Classification
   Schemes (also known as "thesauri", "taxonomies", and sometimes
   "ontologies".) At this time, Clearinghouse is not intending to promote
   copyright-restricted Classification Schemes.

   For users comfortable with navigating the hierarchical organization of
   the U.S. Federal Government, Clearinghouse will provide a view of
   government information holdings organized by "Originator". The
   Originator metadata element will follow the hierarchical Classification
   Scheme of agencies and other organizational units given in the U.S.
   Government Manual.

   "Place" is often a very important organizing principle for government
   information, especially where holdings cross political boundaries or
   governmental levels. The Clearinghouse catalog will follow the
   standards promulgated by the National Spatial Data Infrastructure. The
   Spatial-Domain locator record element will hold the metadata to support
   the classification of locator records by place names (e.g, country,
   state, county, city) and spatial coordinates such as
   latitude/longitude.

   A separate view of government information holdings may be organized by
   the types of services provided by U.S. Federal agencies. This
   Classification Scheme can be based on the organizing principles used in
   telephone books in many cities across the U.S., known as the GSA "Blue
   Pages" and described at <http://bp.fed.gov/>.

   Librarians and other information professionals are familiar with the
   Library of Congress Subject Headings and the Legislative Indexing
   Vocabulary is also well-known. The Government Printing Office also
   employs trained catalogers to apply GPO Subject Headings in the
   "Pathway" locator records developed in GPO Access for U.S. Federal
   agencies.

   Other popular Classification Schemes may also be considered. COSATI
   (Committee on Scientific and Technical Information) provides an
   alternative Classification Scheme optimized for scientific and
   technical information and already supported by the National Technical
   Information Service. A hybrid approach between the Blue Pages and LCSH
   is being used for the Texas state GILS, as seen at
   <http://link.tsl.state.tx.us/trail/subjecttext.html>.

   Special purpose Classification Schemes may also be used in
   Clearinghouse. For example, locator records can be classified by
   Audience (child, citizen, teacher...), by Accessibility (ADA-compliant,
   Internet, free,...), and by various other criteria that may reflect
   emergent or transitory areas of particular public interest.
