http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0907nationalfireplan.htm

    blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   September 7, 2001

   Special to
   California Forests
   July/September 2001
   Volume 5/Number 3

                    America, where it stood a century ago
                    On the threshold of devastating fire
                               By James Hansen

   When I look at the recent management of our federal forests, it feels
   like we've gone back in time to the foolish neglect of nearly a 100
   years ago -- mismanagement that cost the nation the lives of 86
   firefighters and three million acres of white pine forests.

   This new administration inherited 70 million acres of forests laden
   with a record-high hazardous fuel load. Our Western forests right now,
   are a behemoth kiln waiting for a spark. Congress was struck by the
   profound danger during last summer's ferocious fires and has
   appropriated a record $1.8 billion to implement a National Fire Plan
   that includes prompt, sharp reduction of these fuels.

   However, the Bush Administration has inherited eight years of forest
   neglect. That can't be turned around overnight. Even with recent
   efforts, we stand at the threshold of disaster, just as this nation did
   a century ago.

   History repeating itself

   Back then, wrongheaded government leaders refused to fund roads and
   trails for the management of our forests. Gifford Pinchot, the first
   chief of the USDA Forest Service, talked publicly about "the bias" and
   "the bullheadedness" of the people blocking proactive forest
   management.

   Of course, the Great Fire of 1910 changed that. Eighty-six firefighters
   died appalling deaths fighting 1,000 fires that, in two days, charred
   three million acres of Idaho and Montana. The inferno and the grisly
   suffering and death shocked the nation.

   To put this tragedy in perspective, we lost about 2.3 million acres of
   land under Forest Service protection during three months of ferocious
   wildfires last year. I can't conceive of the loss of three million
   acres and nearly 100 men in 48 hours.

   After the Great Fire, public pressure forced a proactive federal effort
   to manage our forests, with an eye to reducing future fire potential.

   Now, we've gone back in time. We stand, as we did a century ago, at the
   threshold of tragedy.

   The House Resources Committee is very concerned about this wildfire
   hazard. We have held more than 20 hearings on forest health, wildfire
   and fuels during the last three years alone. As the number of wildfires
   has increased, so has the intensity of our oversight.

   Oversight being increased

   We were troubled in recent years to see report after report on this
   growing problem ignored by the Clinton Administration. We were
   particularly alarmed to see the comprehensive 1995 "Federal Wildland
   Fire Management Policy and Program Review" which called for a
   coordinated effort among federal agencies, disregarded by the Clinton
   Administration.

   Their philosophy staggered me. I didn't understand how that
   administration could deliberately expose 70 million acres of the
   American people's land to fires so ferocious that the heat cracked open
   boulders, boiled stream water, melted and sterilized soil and caused a
   suffering both terrible and incalculable to humans and wildlife.

   Now, we are nearly finished with another hot and dry summer. Despite a
   new administration's relentless work to fully staff the Interior and
   Agriculture departments, needed work has not been done to reduce those
   fuel loads.

   Congress is troubled by this. The committee's Forest & Forest Health
   Subcommittee held a hearing on the matter at the end of July. We
   invited the General Accounting Office to review the situation and
   testify before the subcommittee.

   The GAO noted that our federal agencies still are not coordinating as
   they should to prevent devastating wildfires. The agencies aren't
   working together to prioritize which communities are most at risk or
   implement a thinning strategy, the GAO report said.

   Interagency coordination requested

   When the Interior and Agriculture departments learned of the GAO's
   concerns, they assured the House Resources Committee and Forest &
   Forest Health Subcommittee that interagency coordination and aggressive
   implementation of a fuel-reduction plan would be their top priority.

   I am confident that such assurances will be honored. The House
   Resources Committee will continue its assertive oversight. We will work
   closely with the two departments and the most impacted agencies --
   Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service -- to facilitate
   cooperation and spur momentum.

   The threat to life and land that hangs like a pall over these 70
   million acres is bigger than political allegiances. Niceties, in the
   face of prospective devastation, are inappropriate. This Congress can
   and will be tireless in seeking the rapid and full implementation of
   the National Fire Plan we funded last year.

   We will maintain a vigilant watch, demand ongoing accountability and
   move swiftly to address problems.

   Interior Secretary Gale Norton and Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman
   share our zeal. As their key staff have moved into place in recent
   weeks, we have seen early evidence of the kind of interagency
   cooperation this venture demands.

   I look forward to the day when Congress can review the management of
   our entire 192 million acres of national forest system land with
   confidence. I look forward to a time when my committee's forest-health
   hearings are no longer marked by today's edgy fear of inevitable fires,
   but, rather, a certitude that we have set our country on a better
   course in the management of its precious resources.

   James V. Hansen was elected to the U.S. Congress from Utah's First
   Congressional District in 1980, and is the chairman of the House
   Resources Committee.
   Reprinted from California Forests (http://www.foresthealth.org/).
   Available in PDF version.

                                    # # #
