http://csmt.jpl.nasa.gov/csmtpages/Technologies/MicroWeather.html

   [MicroWeather_01.gif] [MicroWeather_02.gif]
   [MicroWeather_03.gif]
   [MicroWeather_04.gif]

   hygro.gif hygrom.jpeg

   The photograph on the left shows the microhygrometer, mounted on a
   thermo-electric cooler, which is soldered onto an electronics
   header.The quarter is shown for scale. On the right is a closeup of the
   Hygrometer

   The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) at Caltech's
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Center for Space Microelectronics
   Technology, Microdevices Laboratory, is developing instruments for a
   micro weather station.

   Microfabrication techniques are being used to develop sensors capable
   of accurate measurements in a low-mass, low-power package. Because of
   the importance of water to both Earth and Mars atmospheric science, the
   microhygrometer is the most scientifically important component of the
   micro weather station, and has been the primary focus of the program. A
   microhygrometer for direct dewpoint measurement has been developed and
   successfully tested on NASA's DC8 for upper troposphere measurements of
   humidity. The microhygrometer has demonstrated performance superior to
   conventional, massive, chilled-mirror dewpoint hygrometers. Additional
   highlights of the program include the fabrication and testing of
   micromachined silicon sensors for wind, pressure, and air temperature,
   a radiation densitometer, and a micro laser Doppler anemometer
   currently under development.

   Significance of This Technology:

   Understanding climate, global change, and ozone depletion in the
   Earth's atmosphere depends critically on accurate characterization of
   the upper atmosphere. This characterization requires in situ sensors,
   as both a primary data source and ground truth calibration for orbiting
   sensor systems. The Micro Weather Station program is directed to the
   development and flight demonstration of micro instruments which provide
   an advance in capabilities for meteorological measurements on platforms
   for upper atmosphere measurements. Instrument platforms include
   aircraft, balloon-borne radiosondes, and aircraft-deployed dropsonde
   instruments.

   Similar requirements for measurements in Earth's upper atmosphere and
   the Mars planetary boundary layer have led to synergistic instrument
   development goals for Earth and Mars micro weather stations. Advances
   in electronics and instrument technology over the past thirty years
   have enabled an evolution from large Voyager-class spacecraft to
   smaller, less costly Discovery and Explorer missions. By taking
   advantage of micromachining and micro-instrumentation, reduction in
   size can be accomplished without necessarily impacting performance. In
   some cases, the small payload will enable new types of missions which
   would be otherwise inconceivable. A micro weather station is envisioned
   as an enabling technology for network science on Mars, which is
   critical for obtaining a global picture of weather in Mars' planetary
   boundary layer.

   Advantages
   Microhygrometer
            Accuracy of dewpoint sensors
            Sensitivity of surface acoustic wave device
            Fast response
            Low mass, volume
       Micromachined pressure, temperature, wind sensors
            Low mass, volume (pressure, temperature, and wind)
            Fast response (pressure, temperature, and wind)
            Low thermal mass (temperature and wind)
            High sensitivity to air temperature (temperature)
       Radiation densitometer
            Large dynamic range
            Linear response
            Low mass and power
       Micro Laser Doppler Anemometer
            Accuracy of laser Doppler technique
            Integrated binary optics-rugged sensor
            Measurement of wind at a distance from the sensor
            Low mass, volume

   Potential Commercial Uses / Applications
   A microweather station has commercial applications in radiosondes and
   dropsondes for in situ weather measurement, both for weather prediction
   and modelling, and for ground truth weather measurements near airports.
   Currently over 100,000 radiosondes are deployed annually in the United
   States, with serious deficiencies in the accuracy of reported data,
   particularly with regard to humidity. Radiosondes must be small and
   inexpensive in order to find a large commercial market. There is a
   smaller market for reference radisondes, which use more accurate, more
   expensive sensors. In addition to radiosondes, which are typically
   deployed on balloons for ascent through the atmosphere, dropsondes are
   deployed from airplanes, using parachutes for a controlled descent.
   Accuracy and speed of response are critical performance criteria for
   these applications, which require tracking changing conditions as the
   instrument rapidly ascends (or descends) through the atmosphere.

   Surface micro weather stations have applications in military tactical
   situations, as tools for gathering critical information on surface
   conditions on land or sea. Surface weather stations for these
   applications should be small enough for covert operation and
   inexpensive to allow deployment of numerous sensors. The Navy is a
   potential customer for this technology. In addition to a complete micro
   weather station, the individual sensors have numerous potential
   commercial applications as independent instruments. A number of
   companies manufacture chilled-mirror dewpoint hygrometers for a variety
   of applications, from atmospheric sensors mounted on airplanes to
   moisture detectors in corn drying apparatus. A small, inexpensive
   hygrometer with better speed and accuracy than conventional chilled
   mirror devices would have significant potential for impacting this
   market. There is already a large commercial market (and a number of
   manufacturers) for micromachined pressure sensors, with applications
   from athletic shoes to catheters. Finally, laser Doppler anemometers
   have a wide range of commercial applications, ranging from aerospace to
   paper manufacturing. A small, integrated laser Doppler anemometer could
   impact these applications, and possibly find new markets depending on
   the cost of the final instrument.

   Still like to know more? Read a recent article in our Space
   Microelectronics Technology Magazine


   Point of Contact: Michael Hoenk, JPL

   michael.e.hoenk@jpl.nasa.gov
