http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/ECBG_final.pdf

   POTENTIAL GROUND AND SURFACE WATER IMPACTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF
   ETHANOL AS A FUEL OXYGENATE David W. Rice Environmental Protection
   Department Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Briefing to the
   California Environmental Policy Council Sacramento, California January
   18, 2000 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts  Introduction G
   What we did to evaluate potential ground and surface water impacts
   associated with the use of ethanol as a fuel oxygenate: - Began the
   development of comprehensive life-cycle model. - Performed literature
   reviews of transport and fate of ethanol and benzene in the presence of
   ethanol. - Used screening models to evaluate ground and surface water
   impacts. - Evaluated chemical analysis techniques used to measure
   ethanol in the environment. - Examined the environmental properties of
   alkylates. - Submitted our findings to peer review. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB
   Talk - 2 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts  Authors University
   of California, Davis John Reuter, Ph.D. Brant Allen University of Iowa
   Clarkson University Pedro Alvarez, Ph.D. Susan Powers, Ph.D. Craig
   Hunt, Ph.D. Stephen Heermann, Ph.D. Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory Harry Beller, Ph.D. Carolyn Koester, Ph.D. Jeffrey Daniels,
   Ph.D. David Layton, Ph.D. Brendan Dooher, Ph.D. Alfredo Marchetti,
   Ph.D. Staci Kane, Ph.D. Walt McNab, Ph.D. David W. Rice, Project
   Director ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 3 Potential Ground and Surface
   Water Impacts  Reviewers University of California, Santa Barbara Donald
   Bren School of Environmental Science and Mangement Patricia Holden,
   Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Civil and Environmental
   Engineering Department Michael Stenstrom, Ph.D. California Institute of
   Technology Executive Officer of Environmental Engineering Science,
   James Irvine Professor of Environmental Science Michael Hoffman, Ph.D.
   ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 4 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts
    Release Scenarios G Release scenarios were developed based on the
   production, distribution, and use of ethanol as a fuel oxygenate. - Not
   all release scenarios were evaluated. G In the time allowed, the
   following scenarios were evaluated because they were most likely to
   have impact: - Leaking under ground fuel tank releases. - Rail tank car
   release to a river. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 5 Potential Ground and
   Surface Water Impacts  Ethanol Transport and Fate G The impact of
   ethanol co-solubility effects on benzene dissolution will likely be
   very minor. G Ethanol is degraded very rapidly in soils and water. -
   Degradation half-life in ground water ranges between 1.3 and 7 days,
   depending on electron acceptor used. - Degradation half-life in surface
   waters is about 3.5 hrs after about a 10-hr lag. G The preferential
   degradation of ethanol in groundwater may result in longer benzene
   plume lengths. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 6 Potential Ground and
   Surface Water Impacts  Modeling of Benzene Plume Lengths G How long may
   the benzene plumes increase if ethanol is used? - Three independent
   screening model assessments indicate that average benzene plumes may
   increase 24  33 % in the presence of ethanol. G These models make two
   important simplifying and conservative assumptions: - Benzene is not
   degraded in the zone where ethanol is being rapidly degraded. - The
   biodegradation rate for benzene is uniform over the length of the
   benzene plume. G If these assumptions are not representative of actual
   processes, then benzene plume lengths may be shorter than estimated by
   the screening models. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 7 Potential Ground and
   Surface Water Impacts - Plume Conceptual Model Leaking Underground Fuel
   Tank Free product on surface of groundwater Benzene groundwater plume
   Groundwater flow direction ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 8 Potential
   Ground and Surface Water Impacts - Plume Conceptual Model (Cont.) tion
   Benzene plume with ethanol absent. Concentra Distance tion tion Benzene
   plume with ethanol present. zone Concentra Ethanol degrada Distance
   ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 9 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts
    Modeling of Benzene Plume Impacts G What is the comparative potential
   impact of increased benzene plume lengths relative to MTBE? - A
   baseline potential impact was developed for benzene without ethanol
   present. - This baseline was used to compare the impacts of MTBE plumes
   and benzene plumes with ethanol present. G Step 1. A baseline
   population of benzene plume lengths without ethanol was modeled. - This
   population compared well with a population of 500 measured historical
   case benzene plume lengths. - For the population of benzene plumes
   modeled, plume lengths were forecast over a 100-year period. -
   Twenty-one time intervals were used and 4000 plume lengths were
   developed for each time interval. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 10
   Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts  Modeling of Benzene Plume
   Impacts G Step 2. Relative location information for public drinking
   water wells and all known active leaking underground fuel tank sites in
   California was used to perform an impact analysis. - For each LUFT site
   in California, the distance between every known drinking water well
   within 30,000 feet of the LUFT site was calculated. - Based on the
   population of modeled plume lengths, the probability of a benzene plume
   reaching drinking water wells near each of these LUFT sites was
   calculated for each time interval. G Step 3. These first two steps were
   repeated for MTBE plumes and benzene plume in the presence of ethanol.
   G Step 4. A series of relative probability curves were prepared. ECBG
   2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 11 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts
   Modeling of Benzene Plume Impacts (Cont.) 100% 90% MTBE, 80% 95th
   percen 70% Difference betwe bability 60% MTBE and Base Cas 50% ange in
   pro 40% Difference betwe Benzene with eth and Base Case 30% Benzene
   with etha 95th percentil Relative ch 20% 10% Benzene, 95th percentile -
   Ba 0% 0 15 30 45 60 75 Time, years ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 12
   Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts  Measured Benzene and MTBE
   Impacts G What is the current measured benzene and impact rates? - The
   average annual percentage of public drinking water sources that are
   impacted from all sources, including LUFTs: * Benzene = 0.35% * MTBE =
   1.17% G A caution: - Our comparative analysis is not intended to be
   predictive in any regard. - It is a screening analysis that is intended
   to show a relative comparison between MTBE and benzene in the presence
   of ethanol. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 13 Potential Ground and Surface
   Water Impacts  Surface Water Impacts G Impacts of ethanol-containing
   gasoline on surface water resources were also evaluated. G The loss
   mechanisms for MTBE and ethanol from surface waters is different. -
   Ethanol is removed through biodegradation. - MTBE is removed through
   volatilization at the water's surface. G The toxicity of ethanol is
   about 2000 time less than MTBE. - If there are spills of equal mass,
   MTBE will have much greater impact to surface water drinking supplies.
   G Washout of ethanol from the atmosphere through rain may be 40 times
   greater than MTBE. - Ethanol concentrations in rain could be about 40
   to 65 ppb. - Ethanol will be rapidly removed from rainwater through
   biodegradation. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 14 Potential Ground and
   Surface Water Impacts  Use of Alkylates G Alkylates are complex
   mixtures of branched hydrocarbons with octane ratings close to 100. G
   Significant quantities of alkylates are already present in gasoline. G
   Compared to MTBE, less ethanol is required to meet a specified oxygen
   content in gasoline. - The resulting octane deficit may be compensated
   by adding additional alkylates to gasoline that contains ethanol. ECBG
   2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 15 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts
   Properties of Alkylates G Aklylates have: - Low solubility in water. -
   Lower density than water. - High volatility. - Low mobility in soils. G
   Properties like biodegradability or toxicity are not easily
   extrapolated to all alkylate compounds. - Cancer risk, reproductive and
   developmental effects have not been studied. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk -
   16 Potential Ground and Surface Water Impacts  Conclusions G The water
   resource impacts associated with the use of ethanol will be
   significantly less and more manageable than those associated with the
   continued use of MTBE - The key factor is the biodegradability of
   ethanol compared to MTBE. G An important question before the Council is
   "Will additional information change the decision to use ethanol as a
   fuel oxygenate or not?" ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 17 Potential Ground
   and Surface Water Impacts  Recommendations for Future Research G If a
   decision is made to use ethanol as a fuel oxygenate, several additional
   analyses and experiments should be performed to help manage its use. -
   A complete life cycle analysis should be performed. - Experiments
   should be performed to evaluate the degradation of benzene by ethanol
   degrading microbial populations. - Field and laboratory studies should
   be performed to evaluate changes in benzene degradation rates over the
   length of a benzene plume. - A series of field sites should be
   identified and studied to support modeling assumptions. - The chemical
   analysis techniques used to measure ethanol in field samples should be
   refined to lower limits of detection. - Additional historical case data
   should be collected and analyzed. ECBG 2000-001 SWRCB Talk - 18
