http://space.gsfc.nasa.gov/culture_1999.html

                          1999 GSFC Culture Survey

                     Space Sciences Directorate Summary

   The 1999 GSFC Culture Survey results for the Center have been
   distributed. In addition to the Center level results, the results for
   each Directorate were analyzed. Following is a summary of the results
   for the Space Sciences Directorate.


   Table 1 summarizes the Directorate results compared to the Center mean.
   Note some general characteristics. The Directorate score was above the
   Center mean in nine of the twelve categories, and in four of these the
   scores were the highest on the Center. Many of these are high positive
   numbers, i.e., above 3.5, that represent strengths. These results are
   quite possibly unmatched by any other Directorate.

   Two of the categories deserve further elaboration. Although Leadership
   showed a good rating of 3.33, above the Center mean of 3.21, it is
   somewhat bi-polar. In three of the seven questions on Center leadership
   this Directorate had the lowest scores on Center. However, eight of the
   nine questions on Directorate leadership had scores above the Center
   medians, and three of the nine had the highest scores on Center. A
   related area is Management Practices which covered the person’s
   relationship to his/her immediate supervisor. The Directorate scored
   higher than the Center median in thirteen of fifteen questions
   including four of the fifteen which were the highest scores on the
   Center. In these two categories, Leadership and Management Practices,
   the Directorate seems to express more confidence in local leadership
   than in Center leadership.

   In the Structure category the Directorate had the lowest scores on the
   Center in three of the five questions. This category had to do with
   organization structure and more specifically, the recent
   reorganization. Clearly this was looked on unfavorably.

   In the Motivation category the Directorate had the highest scores on
   Center for all five of the questions in this category including "To
   what extent are you proud to work for Goddard Space Flight Center"
   (4.44).

   Table 2 includes a short narrative on each of the 12 categories in the
   survey. Column C in the table indicates the dimensions that contribute
   most to performance (positive or negative) as predicted by the survey
   contractor’s model. When considering areas for change, particular
   attention should be paid to these items.

   Write-in comments were submitted by a number of respondents. Table 3
   summarizes a few of these in each of the three categories. The first
   percentage is the number of people on Center who responded similarly.
   The second percentage is the number in the Space Sciences Directorate
   who responded similarly. In general, the write-in comments support the
   statistical message of the survey itself.

   The Directorate scores for the 1999 survey are higher than the
   Directorate scores in the 1997 survey in eleven of the twelve
   categories. They are higher by amounts that are statistically
   significant in nine of these twelve. This reflects an increased
   strength in these areas and, in general, a more positive, optimistic
   outlook. For example, Mission and Strategy, which includes enabling
   discovery through leadership in Earth and space sciences, serving the
   scientific community, inspiring the Nation, etc., rose to 3.58 in 1999
   from 3.20 in 1997.

           Table 1 – Space Sciences Directorate Summary Profile



        Directorate mean scores where they are below the Center mean

                              1999 Center Mean

     Directorate mean scores where they are level to or above the Center
                                    mean

   External Environment


                                   (3.66)*

                                    3.81

   Mission and Strategy



                                    3.36

                                   (3.58)

   Leadership



                                    3.21

                                    3.33

   Culture



                                    3.34

                                  (3.56)**

   Structure


                                   [2.65]

                                    2.93

   Management Practices



                                    3.70

                                   (3.86)

   Systems



                                    3.06

                                    3.06

   Work Unit Climate



                                    3.65

                                  (3.92)**

   Skills/Job Match



                                    3.82

                                   (3.89)

   Motivation



                                    3.90

                                  (4.19)**

   Individual Needs and Values



                                    3.63

                                  (3.86)**

   Performance



                                    3.42

                                   (3.53)

   Summary: Number of items + or - .10 from Center mean

                                      2


                                      8

   *Center low

   ** Center high

   ( ) All scores of 3.5 or above are high, positive scores that are
   strengths.

   [ ] All scores of 3.0 or below are low, negative scores that are
   potential weaknesses.

   A score + or - .1 compared with the Center mean generally represents a
   significant difference.

              Table 2 - Space Sciences Directorate Summary Data

                             A. Survey Sections

               B. Directorate Strengths/Areas for Improvement

               C. Areas that significantly impact performance

   EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT: Agreement that changes in federal priorities, and
   NASA’s goals and strategies do impact change at GSFC.

                                    3.66

                              Center low score.

   MISSION & STRATEGY: Good agreement that employees believe in GSFC
   mission and strive to achieve it. There is concern Center is not doing
   enough to sustain vital workforce.

                                    3.58

                                      a

   LEADERSHIP: Directorate gives low marks to trust in Center leadership,
   but high marks to Directorate leadership.

   CULTURE: Directorate scores are highest on the Center regarding fair
   treatment, taking initiative, discussing concerns, partnering, and
   sharing information. Cultural values of agility, creativity,
   dedication, integrity, respect, teamwork are rated very good.

                                    3.56

                               Center highest

   STRUCTURE: Directorate does not think recent reorganization helped.
   Some of the scores are the lowest on the Center

                                    2.65

                                      a

   MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: This dealt with relationship between employee and
   immediate supervisors. Excellent scores show this is a good one with
   significant trust.

                                    3.86

   SYSTEMS: Low score in belief that QMS helps Center to provide quality
   services and products. Maybe correlates with lack of trust in Center
   leadership. Low scores in other systems being effective, e.g.,
   promotions, individual development plans, mentoring, honor awards.


                                      a

   WORK UNIT CLIMATE: Very good climate response. Mutual respect,
   expression of diverse views, recognizing good work by peers, etc., are
   viewed as part of a good climate.

                                    3.92

                               Center highest

                                      a

   SKILLS/JOB MATCH: Directorate members believe they have the right
   skills to do the job and these skills are valued and utilized. They
   also feel they add value to the products and services of the Center

                                    3.89

   MOTIVATION: Outstanding motivation. All five questions had the highest
   rating on the Center. Undoubtedly the strongest on the Center

                                    4.19

                               Center highest

   INDIVIDUAL NEEDS & VALUES: The Directorate members fell valued, secure,
   free to conduct work as they see fit, adequately recognized, full
   members of the community, and have work requirements that are
   consistent with their personal values.

                                    3.86

                               Center highest

   PERFORMANCE: In general performance (meeting commitments, positioned to
   compete, etc.) was rated high with tow exceptions. Very low score on
   "does the Center remove obstacles that do not add value?" Also very low
   score on "will various change initiatives help GSFC become more
   competitive and better perform its mission?"

                                    3.53



                    Table 3 – Write-in Comments Summary

   What do you believe in currently going very well at Goddard?
     * World-class science, technology, and mission support (19% vs. 20%)
     * Managing Change and streamlining process (15% vs. 20%)
     * Dedicated, competent workers with high employee morale (14% vs.
       20%)

   What do you believe is currently not going well at Goddard?
     * Reorganization and streamlining efforts (20% vs. 16%)
     * Promotion, hiring, and employee recognition processes (18% vs. 11%)
     * Initiative of the month and inconsistent priorities (17% vs. 44%)

   If you could change anything you wanted at Goddard, what would it be?
     * Employee hiring, development and promotion processes (25% vs. 11%)
     * Streamline processes and reverse the reorganization (22% vs. 26%)
     * Improve leadership and enhance vision formulation (18% vs. 17%)
     * Maintain intellectual capital/technical expertise, focus more on
       science and less on initiatives (18% vs. 31%)
