http://www.soyunica.gov/guests/default.htm


   Soy Unica! Soy Latina! Campaign Logo Skip Navigation Soy Unica! Soy
   Latina! Left Bar Navigation Skip Navigation


                                Guests Header


                    Spotlight on Marieli E. Colon-Padilla
                            Marieli Colon-Padilla

   "As a young Latina I feel that it’s my responsibility to further my
   education. That is my contribution to strengthening the future of the
   Latino community. I feel confident that I have the ability to make the
   right choices in my life and in my education. I am proud of having two
   cultures and speaking two languages. It’s what being única and Latina
   is all about!" - Marieli E. Colon-Padilla -

   Personal Information
     * Birthplace: Puerto Rico
     * Occupation: Program Officer, National Hispanic Medical Association
       (NHMA)

   The beginnings of a leader…

   Marieli is a hard working and self-driven Latina who has dedicated
   herself to promoting leadership development and community action in the
   Hispanic community. Her goal is to become a successful Hispanic leader
   and to empower the next generation of Latina leaders in the United
   States.
   Marieli Colon-Padilla

   Marieli is a program officer for the National Hispanic Medical
   Association (NHMA), where she oversees the NHMA Leadership Fellowship &
   Resident Leadership/Policy training programs. These programs promote
   the development of leadership skills among doctors and primary care
   residents in the Hispanic community.

   In her past jobs, Marieli has organized community service, cultural,
   social, and educational events for Latinos of all ages. She worked at
   MANA  (a national Latina organization) as the HERMANITAS Coordinator.
   HERMANITAS is a national Latina “stay-in-school” initiative and youth
   leadership development program for girls ages 9-17.

   The girl next door succeeds…

   Marieli showed her leadership skills at an early age when she was a
   Girl Scout. She received the Girl Scouts Silver and Gold Medal Awards.
   These are the highest awards given to a Girl Scout for leadership,
   community activism, and service, in both cadet and senior levels. As a
   youth leader, Marieli represented Puerto Rico in the United States,
   Central and South America, and the Caribbean. She was also a Girl Scout
   peer trainer and camp staff throughout her middle and high school
   years. Marieli then went to college and earned a Bachelor’s degree in
   marketing.

   Her family…

   Marieli is very proud of her family. Her parents have encouraged and
   given her support throughout her life. She has one sister and one
   brother. Her sister Andrean is an electrical engineer, and her brother
   Marcel is a graphics/web designer.

   Awards:
     * Leadership and Community Service Recognition Award, Mayor’s Office,
       Caguas, Puerto Rico
     * Girl Scouts Volunteer Leadership Recognition Award
     * Outstanding Community Service Award, Puerto Rico
     * Women’s Civic Club Award
     * Young Entrepreneur Award, Governor’s Office, Puerto Rico



   Search Icon + Link to Search Page Search
   Búsqueda

                    Email Icon Send This Page to a Friend
                      Envíale Esta Página a una Amiga

                                   Awards
                                   Premios

                                 Link to Us!
                       ¡Añada un enlace a nosotros!

   Soy Unica! Soy Latina! Bottom Navigation

   Please e-mail all comments, questions, or suggestions to
   webmaster@soyunica.gov
   Dot Divider Privacy Policy Dot Divider Accessibility

   WARNING: Children should advise their parent or guardian before sending
   information over the Internet.
