http://grassley.senate.gov/bio.htm

                                  Masthead


   Biographical Data At A Glance

                     Introducing Senator Chuck Grassley
                            Iowa's Senior Senator

   Keeping in touch with Iowans enables Sen. Chuck Grassley to bring Iowa
   common sense to official Washington. From the river towns along the
   mighty Mississippi to the farm communities nestled among the Loess
   Hills in Western Iowa, Chuck Grassley stays well-informed by holding
   open meetings in each of Iowa's 99 counties every year. A hallmark of
   Grassley's commitment to make representative government work, the
   senior senator from Iowa works hard to give individual Iowans a voice
   in Washington. Plus, from his assignments on Capitol Hill, Grassley is
   where he needs to be to advocate for Iowa's interests.
   Senator Grassley

   The only working family farmer in the U.S. Senate, Grassley brings true
   grit to his congressional oversight responsibilities. Seeking a more
   accountable government, Grassley works to keep Washington honest.
   Whether it's tracking constituent casework or going head-to-head with
   the Pentagon, Grassley works to make the federal government work
   better. He successfully led a six-year campaign to make Congress live
   under the same laws as the rest of the country.

   Sinking his teeth into the federal government's bureaucratic alphabet
   soup, Grassley has fostered reforms of the Internal Revenue Service
   (IRS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Health Care
   Financing Administration (HCFA), the federal agency that runs Medicare,
   and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).

   Keeping vigil against waste, fraud and abuse, Grassley also is a
   perennial recipient of the Taxpayer's Friend Award. As the second most
   senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, Grassley champions fiscal
   discipline. Involved in negotiating the Balanced Budget Act of 1997,
   Grassley helped shepherd through Congress the first balanced federal
   budget since 1969.
   President Bush

   Grassley's tenacity has earned renown inside the Beltway and outside
   Washington. The Iowa senator's tight grip on the federal purse strings
   has brought results for the taxpayers. Working to combat fraud against
   the government by defense contractors in 1986, Grassley won passage of
   amendments to the False Claims Act. To date, the Grassley amendments
   have recovered $3.3 billion to the U.S. Treasury and have helped to
   deter untold billions more. The Grassley provisions have become the
   government's most effective weapon against health care fraud.

   Honoring the memory of the American servicemen still missing from the
   Vietnam War, it was Chuck Grassley who in 1992 successfully challenged
   the U.S. government to release over a million pages of documents about
   those left behind as POWs and MIAs. Grassley pulled back the cloak of
   secrecy that had surrounded this painful chapter in American history.
   For the families and loved ones of those brave men, there was no
   stronger advocate than Iowa's senior senator.

   A farm-state lawmaker, Grassley exercises his authority on the Senate
   Judiciary and Finance Committees to watch out for rural America's
   interests. Trouble-shooting for the Midlands, Grassley has taken a
   leading role in Washington to monitor mega-mergers and potentially
   anti-competitive behavior. Specifically, Grassley has asked the U.S.
   Justice Department to gauge disproportionate impacts that corporate
   mergers in the banking, airline, chemical, seed, railway,
   telecommunications, and utilities industries may have on farmers, small
   business owners, workers, and consumers in rural America. Grassley has
   introduced legislation that would for the first time give the USDA
   expanded authority to challenge anti-competitive practices in
   agribusiness if it finds a merger would cause substantial harm to the
   ability of independent producers and family farmers to compete in the
   marketplace.
   Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson

   After working two years to bring increased competition to under-served
   markets like Iowa, Grassley crossed a major legislative hurdle in 2000
   to open the door for increased airline competition to Iowans. Start-up
   and budget carriers now will have a better opportunity to get their
   businesses off the ground in Iowa. Meaningful airline competition will
   improve Iowa's ability to attract and keep a competitive business
   climate that supports high-paying jobs.

   Since 1981, Grassley has served all but four years on the influential
   Senate Finance Committee. In the 107th Congress, Grassley's seniority
   paid off as he took the reins of what he calls the "quality of life
   committee." From here, Grassley will guide matters of public policy
   that affect the health and welfare of American citizens, virtually from
   cradle to grave, including Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, federal
   taxes, trade and pensions.

   Faced with a rare 50-50 split among Republicans and Democrats in the
   Senate and on the committee, Grassley vows to seize the opportunity and
   forge a consensus that will achieve results not gridlock. His goals as
   chairman include crafting legislation that would minimize the marriage
   tax penalty; repeal the estate tax; lower marginal tax rates; increase
   trade opportunities; simplify the pension system; address Social
   Security's long-term viability; modernize the Medicare program with a
   prescription drug benefit alongside other structural reforms, including
   health care equity for rural states; and reauthorize the 1996 Welfare
   Reform Act.

   A Butler County native, Grassley understands the ins and outs of
   farming and how policy decisions from Washington impact the hardworking
   American farmer. Scoring a major victory for the Upper Midwest,
   Grassley orchestrated congressional approval to extend the ethanol
   program to 2007.

   Committed to a strong, diversified economy to keep good-paying jobs
   that keep young people in Iowa, Grassley advocates free and fair trade
   opportunities to enhance Iowa's competitiveness in the global economy.
   Since 1986, Grassley has hosted hundreds of international ambassadors
   on a biennial tour of his home state to showcase Iowa's people,
   products and places to our global trading partners.

   Grassley's commitment to Iowa's future and the next generation prompted
   him to launch an extensive, first-of-its-kind statewide initiative to
   address Iowa's growing drug problem. Called Face It Together (F.I.T.),
   Grassley spearheaded the grassroots-based anti-drug strategy to help
   Iowa families work together to keep their communities, schools and
   workplaces drug-free. As chairman of the Senate Caucus on International
   Narcotics Control, Grassley takes aim at money laundering, crime rings
   and drug trafficking that victimize America's youth.

   While Senator Grassley works in Washington, he lives in Iowa. He
   returns home almost every weekend. He and his wife Barbara raised five
   children in New Hartford. They have nine grandchildren.

Biographical Data At A Glance:

   Born: Sept. 17, 1933, New Hartford, Iowa

   Family: Married Barbara Speicher 1954; Five children, Lee, Wendy,
   Robin, Michele, Jay

   Occupation: Farmer (son, Robin, currently operates family farm); sheet
   metal shearer 1959-1961; assembly line worker 1961-1971; elected to
   Iowa Legislature 1958; U.S. House of Representatives 1974, U.S. Senate
   1980

   Education: B.A. 1955, M.A. 1956 Political Science, University of
   Northern Iowa; Ph.D. work, University of Iowa

   Memberships: Farm Bureau, the Butler County and State of Iowa
   Historical Societies, Pi Gamma Mu, Kappa Delta Pi, International
   Association of Machinists 1962-71, International Parliamentary Group
   for Human Rights, Masons, Eagles, Baptist Church

   Committees: Finance (Ranking Member), Judiciary, Budget, Joint Tax,
   Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control (Chairman)

   Awards: Agriculture/Rural Communities
   Iowa Corn Growers Association, National Farmers Union, National Grain
   and Feed Association, National Corn Growers Association, The American
   Farm Bureau Federation, National Telephone Cooperative Association,
   Iowa Farm Bureau, Agricultural Retailers Association, National Pork
   Producers Council

   Good Government
   Congressional Coverage Coalition, American Arbitration Association, The
   Project on Government Oversight, National Whistleblower Center Award

   Budget/Taxes
   Citizens for A Sound Economy, Watchdogs of the Treasury, Concord
   Coalition Citizens' Council, Council For Citizens Against Government
   Waste, National Taxpayers Union

   Small Business
   National Association for the Self-Employed, National Federation of
   Independent Business, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Small Business Survival
   Committee

   Aging Issues/Health Care
   "60-Plus Association," National Council of Senior Citizens, United
   Seniors Association, American Association of Homes and Services for the
   Aging, National Association of Community Health Centers, National
   Association of Rural Health Clinics, Coalition to Save Medicare,
   National Osteoporosis Foundation, National Association of State Units
   on Aging, American Network of Community Options and Resources, Iowa
   Physician Assistant Society, Iowa Nurses' Association, American Nurses
   Association, American Association of Dental Schools, Family Voices,
   National PACE Association, National Mental Health Association, Mental
   Health Association of Dubuque County Iowa, American Health Care
   Association, Iowa Chiropractic Society, Alzheimer's Association,
   American Dietetic Association, American Physical Therapy Association

   Grassroots
   National Law Center for Children and Families, Vietnam Veterans of
   America, Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, National Child
   Support Enforcement Association, Church Alliance, Job Corps

   "Grassley does this at least once a year - visiting every county in
   Iowa...Like clockwork over the years he has gone out of his way to make
   sure he sees people in each county - in their home communities - each
   year.... [T]his is an easy litmus test of how well a politician is
   willing to keep his word." - Mount Ayr Record-News, June 1998

   "His influence in the Senate serves his constituents well. He is a hard
   worker. He is respected for his integrity, with staunch moral values
   that are rooted in his home state." - Omaha World-Herald, Oct. 31, 1998

   "Sen. Charles Grassley...is not afraid to ruffle feathers - even when
   those feathers belong to members of his own Republican Party or such
   Washington establishments as the military." - Ottumwa Courier, Jan. 2,
   1996

   "He is consistent, he is courageous, he is tenacious. It's a good thing
   for the country that Grassley still exhibits those characteristics,
   particularly when it comes to keeping an eye on the Pentagon." - Cedar
   Rapids Gazette, Nov. 18, 1996

   "Grassley is a much more senior member of the Senate...in the majority
   and in a position to make recalcitrant bureaucrats uncomfortable pretty
   quickly..." Senator Grassley vs. The FBI by Jane Norman, The Des Moines
   Register, March 2, 1997

   "The law, championed by Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, is a proven weapon
   in the fight against fraud and it's rapidly becoming the most effective
   tool there is in protecting the integrity of the health care system." -
   The Quad-City Times, July 21, 1998

   "The public owes a debt of gratitude to Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of
   Oregon and Republican Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa. Their initiative
   was not especially well received by opponents of reform. But an
   indefensible and odious practice (secret 'holds') finally gave way to
   the public interest." - The Washington Post, March 10, 1999

   "Grassley assails IRS, thankfully" - Dyersville Commercial, June 3,
   1998

   "Senator Charles Grassley did his Iowa constituents and the rest of the
   country a huge favor...probably saving Iowans at least $100 million."
   Grassley vs. drugmakers, The Des Moines Register, March 15, 2000

   "Everyone who drives a vehicle knows the score at the pump. Gasoline
   and diesel fuel prices are up 70 percent compared to a year ago...there
   are a lot of ideas floating about how to address the situation. Sen.
   Charles Grassley may have come up with some of the best ideas." Taking
   on OPEC with an aggressive stance, Hampton Chronicle, Feb. 24, 2000.

   "Iowa's senior senator always has evoked an image of the down-to-earth,
   hard-working, straight-talking farmer/legislator who has not forgotten
   where he came from and is unfazed by the slick nature of Washington,
   D.C. And when it comes to his new position [on the Senate Finance
   Committee], he has the same attitude." Grassley assumes key
   chairmanship, Quad-City Times, Jan. 22, 2001.

   Click here to print a copy of Senator Grassley's Biography.

    Home | Constituent Services | Grassley News | Legislative Information
                     Kids' Stuff | Biography / In Action
