http://www.wssb.wa.gov/OnCampusPrograms.htm

   link to Access Washington home page

Washington State School for the Blind

   A Washington State Agency
   Nationally accredited through the Northwest Association of Schools and
   Colleges
   Member of the Council of Schools for the Blind (COSB).

Skip Navigation


   Home

   School Information

   Administration

   On Campus Programs

   Orientation & Mobility

   Resources

   School Board

   Residential

   School Foundation

   Technology

   Media Center

   The Lions Roar

   Student Information

   Activity Calendar

   2001-2002
   School Calendar

   Parent Representative

   In The Classroom

   Grades K-2^nd

   Middle School

   U.S. History

   Pacific Northwest History

   Journalism

   Art

   Music

   Science

   Math

   English

   Quest

   Fit for Life Program

   Statewide Services

   Outreach Services

   Braille Access Center

   Instructional Resource Center

   General Information

   Employment Opportunities

   Contact Information

   Staff pages
   (WSSB Staff Only)

                            Section 508 approved

On Campus Programs

   Serving children from kindergarten through grade or age 21, the
   educational program provides academic coursework leading to a full high
   school diploma meeting college entrance requirements. Programs to
   develop LIFE skills and a fully alternative program for
   multi-handicapped and deaf-blind children are also offered.

   Throughout each of these performance based curricular areas is the
   integration of compensatory skills that are necessary for inclusion in
   the child’s home community. The educational program at the Washington
   State School for the Blind is fully accredited by the Northwest
   Association of School and Colleges.

   Above all else, the primary focus of the educational program is

   select this link to go to top of page


Middle School

   The Middle School students at the WSSB, which includes grades 6, 7 & 8,
   spend a good portion of their day in two rotations.  In the mornings,
   their Homeroom teachers Shelly Brown & Robb Peck teach them
   Organizational Skills, Social Skills, Computer Skills, Language Arts,
   History, Reading Skills and Compensatory Skills.   They also have
   courses in Fitness and Music.  In the afternoons the rotate through
   Science and Math .  Additionally, as with all students at WSSB, as the
   need arises students in the middle school will have "pull-out" course
   work on a weekly basis in such classes as Daily Living Skills, Adaptive
   Technology, Orientation & Mobility, and Speech Therapy.

For more information on the Middle School please contact
Robb Peck or Shelly Brown at (360) 696-6321 x103.
Or jump to our Middle School pages

   select this link to go to top of page


Vocational Education

   WSSB provides training and opportunities for work experience. Students
   are able to participate at job sites on and off campus. In addition the
   Voc. Ed. program works closely with the Department of Services for the
   Blind to co-sponsor several events. Some of these include:

Career Fair

   A day and half long program that addresses the needs, concerns and
   options for Blind and Visually impaired people.

Yes Program

   (Youth employment Solutions) A summer program for Blind and Visually
   impaired youth that offers training and work experience.

The Bridge Program

   A summer program aimed at helping students succeed in college.

For more information on the Vocational Education Department please contact
Lori Pulliam at (360) 696-6321 x116.

   select this link to go to top of page


   Lions-Quest logo

   Lions-Quest is a drug abuse prevention and life-skills program
   presented by Lions Clubs International and Quest-International. The
   tri-level, school-based curricula is designed to help young people
   acquire the skills and self confidence necessary to make healthy,
   positive personal decisions and to resist negative influences such as
   drugs and gangs. Violence prevention components also exist for each
   Lions-Quest program.

For more information on WSSB Lions-Quest classes please contact
Robb Peck at (360) 696-6321 x103.

   select this link to go to top of page

Residential Department

   Residential Services provides a homelike environment that encourages
   students to attain proficiency and independence in all aspects of daily
   living, to the extent of each child’s individual potential.

   Students are evaluated as to their skills and performance in techniques
   of daily living. Residential staff, in conjunction with parents and
   education staff, determine skill areas in which students will receive
   instruction. Students are taught strategies that enable them to develop
   social skills, emotional stability and to care for their personal needs
   more independently.

   Social competencies are reinforced through planned recreational
   activities. Recreation programs teach students to develop lifelong
   leisure skills and interests through a wide variety of activities made
   available on campus and in the community of Vancouver.

For more information on the Residential Department please contact
Renee Corso at (360) 696-6321 x121.

   select this link to go to top of page




   5>

















      © Copyright 2000
       Designed by: Michael P. Hooks
      Friday January 25, 2002
      Privacy Notice Information
