http://www.nw.faa.gov/civilrights/home.htm

   #Index

   FAA emblem
   Civil Rights Staff
   Northwest Mountain Region, ANM-9
   Blue pointer arrow Civil Rights Staff
   Blue pointer arrow DBE Program
   Blue pointer arrow ADA/Section 504 Compliance
   Blue pointer arrow Nondiscrimination in FAA Assisted Programs
   Blue pointer arrow EEO
   Blue pointer arrow Comments/Questions/Updates

                       graphic Fact Sheet links below

                                   graphic

   Civil Rights Staff
   Civil Rights Office staff roster and functions.

   Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program (DBE) Information
   Information specifically related to the Northwest Mountain Region and
   links to the national FAA Civil Rights Office in Washington, D.C. and
   other sources.

   graphic Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)/Section 504 Compliance
   Information
   Airport responsibilities under the ADA and for links to the national FAA
   Civil Rights Office in Washington, D.C. and other sources.

   graphic Nondiscrimination in FAA Assisted Programs, Title VI, Civil Rights
   Act
   Airport responsibilities under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act and for links
   to helpful tools and other sources.

   Equal Employment Opportunity
   EEO Counselors who facilitate informal complaints of discrimination received
   from FAA employees and applicants in the Northwest Mountain Region and other
   related links.

   Our region's current Internet Publishing Policy.
   Notice/Disclaimer: The content of these pages is unofficial and not
   authority for action. Views and opinions expressed do not necessarily
   reflect those of the U.S. Department of Transportation or the Federal
   Aviation Administration.


    The Civil Rights Office updates this web site quarterly.
    We welcome your questions and comments at:

   Graphical display of link to invite feedback to the Civil Rights Staff
   Civil Rights Staff

                         [Top of Page] [Top of Page]

  Last Update: December 11, 2001

   This document complies with the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. Click this
   symbol for more information.
   Bobby Approved (v 3.2) [d]
