http://rfets.gov/annual_report_2002.pdf

   Message From the Manager Last year I told you DOE complex-wide
   integration still demands a great 2001 would be a "year deal of
   attention to ensure necessary items and of no excuses," and I services
   are available when the contractor needs gave you a list of them. One
   integration issue that has taken the milestones for this year spotlight
   over the past year is the shipping of that are the primary plutonium
   metal to the Savannah River Site. I remain indicators for optimistic
   that DOE Headquarters and the state of accomplishment. As South
   Carolina will come to an agreement soon to you will see in this allow
   us to remove plutonium from the site to report, the news is support
   accelerated closure. generally good. We achieved reconfiguration In the
   coming year the site will focus considerable of the Protected Area,
   energy and attention on long-term stewardship began operation of the
   Plutonium Stabilization and challenges. Stewardship considerations will
   continue Packaging System, maintained and accelerated our to be
   incorporated in our environmental remediation pace in D&D, took down
   more buildings, strategies and actions. The Stewardship and increased
   the number of TRU waste Strategy and policies will be developed in
   shipments, despite external interruptions. consultation with the
   public, the regulatory Working Additionally, we shipped more low-level
   agencies, and the Fish and Wildlife Service. waste off-site than ever
   before, Development of the management plans for safely significantly
   exceeding the shipping the Wildlife Refuge will begin in the year
   planned under the 2006 baseline. enables us ahead, using a similar
   process. to work The site made observable progress toward Now that
   shipments of transuranic (TRU) closure and learned many useful lessons
   in waste have resumed and the new Building within 2001. The most
   important principle 440 Waste Loading Facility is in operation,
   demonstrated this year is that working budget we look forward to making
   up for the safely enables working on schedule and delays imposed by the
   shipping moratorium and on within budget. By integrating safety into
   following the events of September 11. every aspect of our operations we
   were During the next year we also plan to schedule able to recoup much
   of our schedule relocate a substantial number of personnel deficit from
   last year. Working safely not off-site to accelerate the
   decontamination only benefits the workers, the public, and and
   decommissioning of site buildings; the environment, but enables the
   site to close in achieve operation of the remote size reduction 2006.
   In the Secretary of Energyís speech at the technology, significantly
   reducing worker risk; Executive Safety Conference, his remarks about
   complete treatment and shipping of the pond sludge; safety echo our
   philosophy: "Ö nothing is more continue safety and security
   enhancements; and begin important. If we do this well, everything else
   will shipments of plutonium metals, oxides, and fall into place. If we
   fail ñ nothing else we do can composites to Savannah River and Los
   Alamos. make up for that failure." We are looking forward to continued
   success in 2002, While we made consistent progress toward closure but
   recognize there are still unknowns ahead. There this year, there are
   still significant challenges ahead are only five years left to go, and
   we will meet each for Rocky Flats. We addressed several safety one of
   them with a renewed sense of vigor and incidents in the course of the
   year and our safety purpose, as well as an ever expanding understanding
   program continues to improve with the lessons of the project, and the
   best strategies and tools for learned from each event. DOE has taken a
   tough reaching our closure goal safely and efficiently. stance to
   assure corrective actions are implemented and the contractor continues
   to focus on every aspect of continuous safety improvement. This
   challenge will be a primary focus until the last activity has been
   completed. 1 Table of Contents Message from the Manager . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 1 Significant Events in 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . 3 Safety Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 5 Cost and Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   13 Facility Disposition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
   Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Environmental
   Restoration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Habitat Management . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Long-Term Stewardship . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Radionuclide Soil Action Levels . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 25 Legal and Litigation Activities . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . 26 Open OIG Findings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   26 Waste Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
   Technology Deployment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Special
   Nuclear Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Community
   Outreach Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Public Participation .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Human Resources . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 2 Significant Events in 2001
   Working safely enables us to work within budget and * Appointed
   Long-Term Stewardship manager to on schedule. increase site stewardship
   focus and continuity. * Safety work stoppage in January/February 2001 *
   Opened DOE/DOL Energy Employees because of criticality deficiencies in
   Building 707 Compensation Resource Center in Westminster in and
   material control accessibility issues in July to implement the Energy
   Employees Building 371. Occupational Illness Program Act. * Developed
   Site Safety Improvement Plan to * Improved cost and schedule
   performance increase focus on working safely. significantly in the
   second half of the fiscal year due to safety performance improvement
   and increased * Created Safety Assessment Center to conduct daily
   productivity. evaluation of safety incidents and resolutions. * Awarded
   six community and minority grants related to the fields of science and
   engineering. * Completed asbestos removal and demolition of Buildings
   111 and 333. * Donated more than $3.6 million worth of excess computer
   equipment to area schools. Shipped excess respirators to New York City
   to aid in rescue and cleanup efforts. * Achieved all Rocky Flats
   Cleanup Agreement milestones in the categories of D&D, LLW management,
   and TRU waste management. * Implemented horizontal drilling technology
   for characterization of under-building contamination, resulting in
   reduced waste generation and a DOE Pollution Prevention Award. *
   Submitted the Environmental Restoration RFCA Protected Area
   Reconfiguration Standard Operating Protocol for soil and asphalt
   management to EPA and CDPHE. * Achieved start-up of the Plutonium
   Stabilization and Packaging System in June 2001 after significant
   delays for design modifications. * Completed Protected Area
   reconfiguration in July, concentrating security requirements around
   Building 371 and facilitating decommissioning of the remaining
   buildings. * Achieved marked increase in transuranic waste shipments
   despite increased regulatory restrictions and shipping moratoriums. *
   Shipped more low-level waste off-site than any other year in Rocky
   Flats history, surpassing the planned amount by more than 200 percent.
   Buffer Zone Inhabitants 3 New Waste Characterization Technology *
   Demolished three guard towers in November. * Completed draining and
   processing of all special * Conducted extensive public participation
   process nuclear material liquids from process lines and and prepared
   the Radionuclide Soil Action Levels tanks in Building 771, completing
   two Defense Final Report. Nuclear Facilities Safety Board milestones. *
   Completed construction of Building 440 * Implemented plasma arc cutting
   technology in Transuranic Waste Loading Facility, providing Building
   771. two new loading bays and increasing site capability * Approved
   Industrial Area Sampling and to ship waste to the Waste Isolation Pilot
   Plant in Analysis Plan. Carlsbad, NM. 4 Safety Programs The
   reorganization of the Rocky Flats Field The RFFO Manager expressed
   serious concerns Office (RFFO) that began in fiscal year 2000 regarding
   the safety performance of the Kaiser-Hill brought with it increased
   focus on site safety. Team in a January 5, 2001, letter. The letter
   identified In the first quarter of 2001, RFFO was concerned by four
   areas of concern: apparent safety trends, particularly those that
   indicated inadequate development of infrastructure to 1. inadequate
   management to ensure safe, productive ensure an effective safety
   posture for work performed. operations; 2. inadequate process for
   ensuring that lessons learned To help ascertain the cause of the
   radiological uptake from safety events were incorporated into future
   documented in Building 771, RFFO requested the work activities; Office
   of Environment, Safety and Health (EH) 3. Kaiser-Hill workers not
   understanding their safety perform an overall review of safety
   management at roles and responsibilities; and the site and the causes
   of the contamination that 4. Kaiser-Hill not developing an effective
   independent occurred among Building 771 personnel. The safety and
   health oversight organization. concerns were related to a variety of
   areas including an increase in the frequency and severity of various
   safety-related incidents, criticality infractions and deficiencies,
   safety near misses, and a lack of adequate corrective actions and
   lessons learned to prevent recurrences. The site's Occupational Safety
   and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable case rate also reflected
   safety problems with a three-fold increase in the case rate over the
   previous quarter's data. The contractor took several positive actions
   that Safety First resulted in a decline in the case rate by the last
   quarter of the year. As a result of this letter, a Site Safety
   Improvement Plan (SSIP) was developed to identify actions Each incident
   was a cause for concern, but taken needed to resolve the safety
   performance concerns at collectively there appeared to be a significant
   the time. The SSIP identified corrective actions to systemic problem.
   Available information indicated address most of the issues of the
   review. These that, if not corrected, the trend could lead to a serious
   actions specifically focus on addressing the quality incident. The EH
   review focused on work control and safety of each work task rather than
   processes that contributed to the internal exposures in performance
   schedule. Building 771 and a general review of the safety posture at
   the Site. 5 Site Safety Improvement Plan Price-Anderson Actions The
   Site Safety Improvement Plan, developed The Price-Anderson Amendments
   Act enables DOE and implemented by Kaiser-Hill management, is to
   utilize enforcement actions against a contractor a living document that
   is designed to ensure the for unsafe actions or conditions that violate
   nuclear highest standard of safety performance and adapt safety
   requirements. The Act encourages contractors to the ever-changing
   conditions faced during the to report and correct problems that they
   discover. In closure of the Rocky Flats site. As such, the SSIP 2001,
   Kaiser-Hill entered 16 reports of non- is used in support of ongoing
   safety partnering compliance into the DOE database. This compares
   efforts between RFFO to 25 reports in 2000, 22 reports in 1999, and 15
   and Kaiser-Hill. The reports in 1998. The SSIP preliminary results
   already show On July 17, 2001, a $385,000 fine was imposed identifies
   104 improvement in the upon Kaiser-Hill for deficiencies and violations
   in corrective siteís safety several areas including criticality safety,
   waste performance. facility work control requirements, breakdown of
   actions work and procurement processes, procedural The SSIP identified
   104 implementation, As Low As Reasonably Achievable actions to address
   safety performance, with new (ALARA) deficiencies, and violations of
   the issues of site-wide importance added as they quality improvement
   provisions of The Price- are identified. Anderson Amendments Act. A
   corrective action plan was implemented to improve performance in The
   Site Safety Improvement Plan also these areas. incorporated the use of
   an Integrated Assessment Schedule (IAS). This tool is used by both DOE
   Decommissioning and the contractor to assess the adequacy of Basis for
   Interim Operation controls for a variety of safety hazards. The IAS A
   significant accomplishment in facilitating the also assists the site in
   the use of its resources by closure of the site was the development and
   reducing the number of redundant assessments. implementation of the
   Building 771/774 Decommissioning Basis for Interim Operation. This
   Additionally, the Integrated Work Control nuclear safety authorization
   basis document is Program (IWCP) was revised to modify the Job
   sufficiently robust to meet the requirements of Hazards Analysis
   methodology and clarify the federal regulations for documented safety
   analyses analysis, identification, and implementation while providing
   significant streamlining and of controls. flexibility of controls.
   Metric (all site contractors) Goal Actual To Date Accidents resulting
   in 2 or more lost workday cases 0 0 Recordable case* rate (12-month
   rolling average) Below 1.0 2.44 Lost workday case rate (12-month
   rolling average) Below 0.5 1.5 Level 1 or 2 technical safety
   requirement violations per calendar year Below 12 4 Level 3 criticality
   infractions in a calendar year 6 4 Skin contaminations > 1000 dpm per
   100 cm2 per calendar year 10 7 *Defined as all the work-related deaths
   and illnesses, and those work-related injuries that result in a loss of
   consciousness, restriction of work or motion, transfer to another job,
   or require medical treatment beyond first aid. 6 The document
   significantly enhanced some of the list until the appropriate
   corrective actions are approaches used by the Building 779 completed.
   Collaborative issue identification paves decommissioning that allow the
   contractor to ìstep the way for partnering efforts to ensure a safe and
   out ofî controls as the decommissioning effort timely closure of the
   site. progresses and nuclear hazards are reduced. The Building 771/774
   Decommissioning Basis for Interim Electrical safety Operation will be
   used as the model authorization DOE and Kaiser-Hill conducted a joint
   independent basis approach as the remaining nuclear facilities
   Electrical Safety Assessment to ensure that the siteís enter
   decommissioning. electrical safety program controls and work practices
   were adequate to protect workers. Chief among the Safety Assessment
   Center assessments goals was to ensure that only value The Safety
   Assessment Center (SAC) was created in added changes would be
   addressed. Verification of July 2001 to monitor and evaluate the safety
   of work training and worker knowledge were addressed, as were safety
   and implementation practices, work control documentation, and the
   adequacy of processes in identifying hazards to workers. The assessment
   identified 11 good practices, 25 opportunities for improvement, and 15
   deficiencies. Noteworthy in the Good Practices category was worker
   knowledge and a willingness to ask questions when uncertainties arose.
   Implementation of Standard Electrical Work Packages, including detailed
   job walk- downs and pre-job documentation, for electrical deactivation
   and decommissioning reduced Safety Assessment Center in Action hazards
   when drawings activities at Rocky Flats. The SAC consists of upper were
   faulty. management and staff from the siteís central safety
   organization, each Project, and DOE. The SAC convenes daily to discuss
   the previous dayís events, Radiation Protection establish each eventís
   level of concern, and identify The radiation protection program assures
   that potential causes. personnel exposure to penetrating radiation and
   radioactive contamination are maintained as low as Events are recorded,
   assessed, analyzed and tracked reasonably achievable (ALARA) below
   established to identify successful practices and help develop
   standards. Consistent with this objective, the site solutions to
   correct adverse issues or trends. This collective dose was reduced 36
   percent to a projected daily review allows top level managers to
   address the causes of specific events and determine when the occurrence
   of minor events could indicate a 2000 2000 2001 trend that requires
   action. Skin Contaminations 13 7 > 1000 dpm/100 cm2 The SAC staff then
   compiles the daily data into an event database and provides weekly,
   quarterly and Internal Depositions 163 75 annual reports for tracking
   and trending. Items identified as key issues are maintained on an
   action Collective Internal Dose 3916 1278 in mrem 7 186 rem in calendar
   year 2001, compared to 292 rem sensitivity to beryllium. A total of
   14,600 surface in calendar year 2000. samples and 3,500 personal
   breathing zone samples were analyzed since January 2001. Several
   prominent indicators of radiation protection improved during the
   calendar year. The 12-month There were 34 workers involved in 10 events
   in rolling average of radiological violations remained which the
   beryllium action level was exceeded below five per month in 2001, the
   same as 2000. during D&D activities. In most cases the individuals
   Prior to the year 2000, the rolling average was were wearing
   respiratory protection and personal always greater than five per month.
   protective equipment (PPE). In those cases where workers were exposed
   without benefit of respiratory Beryllium Program protection and PPE,
   there have not been any test The Rocky Flats Beryllium Program is
   designed to results that indicate beryllium sensitization to date,
   protect workers and the environment from beryllium and the workers
   continue to be monitored. RFFO has exposure. Kaiser-Hill has submitted
   their updated also been extensively involved in assisting the Chronic
   Beryllium Disease Prevention Program Department of Laborís
   implementation of the new (CBDPP) as implemented through Chapter 28 of
   Energy Employees Occupational Illness their Occupational Safety and
   Industrial Hygiene Compensation Program Act. Program Manual. The
   finalized CBDPP will be in compliance with the Chronic Beryllium
   Disease Occupational Medicine Prevention Program. The Occupational
   Medicine Department made significant progress this past year. It
   recorded 18,222 There were no new cases of CBD diagnosed in the
   Occupational Medicine Department encounters, current worker population
   during the past year. including 1,490 LPT tests for Beryllium However,
   there are 18 workers with CBD from Sensitization, which eliminated the
   back-log of past previous years who are still employed on-site. due
   tests. The Department provided the baseline There are nine new cases of
   Beryllium tests and medical surveillance for the large number
   Sensitization included in the total of 58 cases of of Beryllium Workers
   who were added this past year for D&D work. The site Medical Director
   re-established a DOE- approved Institutional Review Board (IRB), which
   was granted expanded status this year to review additional projects
   under their Single Project Assurance status. Fire Protection A
   full-time DOE RFFO fire protection engineer was added to the staff
   during the first quarter of 2001. With a renewed focus brought by that
   appointment, RFFO and Kaiser-Hill completed and mutually approved a
   Fire Department Baseline Needs Assessment (BNA). The BNA establishes
   the necessary fire and related emergency services, with associated
   staffing, from present to closure utilizing a newly developed
   sensitized workers who are still employed on site. site-specific
   risk-based methodology. It will be the There are 709 Qualified
   Beryllium Workers, 176 operational tool for the contractor and the
   Screened Beryllium Workers, and approximately performance assessment
   basis for RFFO. 2,000 Beryllium Associated Workers in the current
   worker population. Emergency Management The emergency preparedness
   program has maintained There were 1,490 Medical Surveillances performed
   an effective capability to respond to the full spectrum during the year
   which included LPT blood tests for of emergency situations considered
   credible at the 8 any site-wide program modifications were needed. A
   follow-up exercise was conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of
   the corrective actions and confirm facility readiness. Adequate
   readiness was demonstrated by the site during a ìno notice exerciseî
   conducted by the DOE Office of Emergency Management and during various
   site exercises. Mutual aid agreements among the site and local fire
   protection agencies also were updated. Additional planning meetings and
   table- top exercises conducted to enhance coordinated response with
   off-site response agencies continue to ensure maximum readiness for
   natural and man- Rocky Flats Firefighters Conduct Emergency Rescue
   Exercise made emergencies. site. The emergency drill and exercise
   program has The site has implemented all been effective in training and
   ensuring the readiness wildland fire response safety improvements
   identified of the emergency response organization. as a result of the
   DOE Headquarters Offices of Environment and Health and Independent When
   issues are identified during an emergency drill Assessment, Initial
   Joint Review of Wildland Fire or exercise, or during response to an
   emergency Safety at DOE Sites. The site will conduct a wildland event,
   response weaknesses, lessons learned, and fire table-top exercise with
   local off-site fire program improvements are identified and corrective
   departments in 2002. actions implemented. Performance problems were
   identified during a facility emergency exercise in support of start-up
   of the Plutonium Stabilization and Packaging System facility.
   Corrective actions included strengthening the Emergency Preparedness
   and Radiological Controls organizations, providing additional and more
   frequent training for responders and exercise controllers, and
   reviewing the site Emergency Management Program to determine if Fire
   Department Exercise 9 Criticality Safety Program This program supported
   the Plutonium The JCUSC utilizes a two-pronged approach to
   Stabilization and Packaging System start-up with address employee
   safety concerns: a formal process numerous evaluations and
   implementation of an and an informal verbal process. effective control
   program. A "criticality incredibility" evaluation and control set for
   the The following is a brief synopsis of the committeeís waste storage
   buildings was developed and is now performance as compared to fiscal
   year 2000: a significant contributor to safe site closure. ï 15 percent
   fewer written concerns (75), ï 87 percent of written concerns resolved
   without Several criticality safety program changes focused conducting
   formal meetings, on enhanced risk reduction. However, the rate of ï 44
   percent decrease in the average number of days non-conformances with
   safety requirements has to resolve written concerns (33), not been
   reduced and the evaluation of causes of ï 44 percent increase in the
   number of verbal non-conformances and successful system changes
   concerns addressed (506), and to reduce violations requires
   improvement. This ï two written safety concerns carried over from issue
   is being addressed through a partnering fiscal year 2000 (11 carried
   over last year). action for resolution. These statistics demonstrate
   overall improvement Joint Company in commitment to employee safety and
   Union/ Union Safety Committee Management relationships. The United
   Steelworkers of America (USWA), There are other sub-committees that
   fall under the Local 8031 leadership and Kaiser-Hill senior direction
   of the JCUSC and are very active in their management supported an
   increase in membership respective roles. These committees are: Traffic
   of the Joint Company Union Safety Committee Safety, Respiratory
   Protection Action Committee (JCUSC) during this reporting period. The
   year (RPAC), Winter Safety Committee, Price Anderson began with eight
   full-time core committee Oversight Committee, and Hazardous and Toxic
   members and was expanded to include an Materials Committee. additional
   10 building safety representatives (bringing the total to 18),
   observing safety practices at the floor level full-time as part of
   their project work teams. The objective is to employ subject matter
   experts, workers most familiar with area-specific operations, to work
   directly with management to identify and correct safety issues on the
   spot. This approach has dramatically improved the safety relationship
   between the Union and Management, a relationship critical to the safe
   closure of the site. The JCUSC maintains performance metrics and
   monitors Joint Company Union Safety Committee progress continually
   which, Top left: Russ Eason, Rudy Mastellone, James Masingale, Steven
   Trujillo, for this reporting period, Duronda Pope, Lewis DiGiallonardo,
   Paul Wagner demonstrates the activity Bottom left: Mike Giacomini,
   Stephen Tams, Vic Padilla, Bruce Carr, Bob Santangelo, level and
   success of John Ritzman, Phil Dooley, J.D. Thompson (not shown: Steve
   Chestnut) the method. 10 Safeguards and Security and other materials
   that were here when operations Site Security Response to Terrorism: On
   the were curtailed, including transferring all of the morning of
   September 11, Rocky Flats immediately weapons components to other
   sites. The material that initiated a heightened security posture, which
   remains here is secure in hardened vaults or is included positive badge
   checks, vehicle searches, a packaged under stringent security measures
   in the interior of a hardened building. The building in which the
   remaining plutonium is stored has been described as one of the most
   robust buildings in Colorado. Today, Rocky Flats is maintaining its
   heightened security posture. This includes continuing positive badge
   and identification checks, ongoing vehicle searches, increased patrols,
   restricted vehicle access, new escort requirements, and other measures.
   The site continues to perform visitor and vendor vehicle searches
   before authorization is granted for site entry. Waste shipments have
   resumed. Protected Area Reconfiguration: The reconfiguration of the
   Rocky Flats Protected Area, accomplished in July 2001, is one of the
   most important milestones in meeting the closure schedule. All of the
   nuclear Random Security Check materials remaining from the nuclear
   prohibition of any vendors or contractors coming on weapons production
   mission have been site, and increased security patrols. The Emergency
   consolidated from seven buildings into one. As a Operations Center
   (EOC) was activated as a result, the Protected Area, surrounded by a
   high- precautionary measure as the events in New York security
   perimeter fence and alarm system, was and Washington unfolded. Nuclear
   operations were reduced in size by more than 80 percent. curtailed,
   material and waste shipments were halted, and non-essential personnel
   were sent home. In addition to improved safety and security,
   reconfiguring the Protected Area allows workers Rocky Flats has a large
   contingent of armed and easier access to their work areas and results
   in cost highly trained Security Police Officers who are authorized to
   use deadly force to protect special nuclear material. These officers
   are tested and trained regularly to respond to a variety of threat
   scenarios. These threat scenarios also are reviewed regularly and
   revised as the situation may warrant, including events that may occur
   at the local, national or global level. The site works closely with
   other federal agencies and mutual aid agreements are in place with
   local law enforcement agencies. During the past several years, Rocky
   Flats has successfully removed much of the plutonium Workers Disposing
   of Razor Wire From Former Protected Area 11 savings that allow taxpayer
   dollars to be redirected Violation of Access Requirements: In February
   to cleanup work. Four of five highly protected 2001, a violation of DOE
   requirements for access to nuclear Material Access Areas and 150 of 180
   and control of Category I quantities of special acres of Protected Area
   were eliminated, resulting nuclear material (SNM) was discovered in
   Building in reduced security costs and increased productivity 371. The
   Kaiser-Hill team ceased nuclear material as worker and vehicle access
   are improved. In the processing and transfer activities in that
   building and areas where the fence has been removed, personnel
   implemented corrective actions. A special physical and vehicle searches
   are no longer needed, reducing inventory and a thorough review of
   building worker delays and enhancing the use of Security procedures
   related to the handling, controlling, and Police Officer resources. In
   some cases, the need for accounting for nuclear materials were
   initiated. maintaining costly personnel security clearances will
   Operations in the facility were curtailed for one also be eliminated.
   Initial estimates of cost savings month before the first set of new
   procedures was range from $500,000 to $1,000,000 per month. approved
   for use. Demolition of PACS 1 After Reconfiguration of the Protected
   Area 12 Cost and Schedule The Department of Energy uses two key project
   The closure project started 2001 with a net cost indicators to
   determine the health of the variance of ñ0.3 percent, and finished the
   year with a closure project in terms of cost and schedule net cost
   variance of +1.0 percent. As the following performance. The first
   widely recognized indicator is graph depicts, cost performance
   deteriorated during cost variance. Cost variance is a measure of the
   the first half of the year, but improved in the second planned cost of
   work accomplished versus the actual half. This performance improvement
   is attributed to cost. A positive number indicates the work
   productivity improvements and working safely. accomplished cost less
   than expected, or under-ran the planned budget, while a negative number
   indicates the work cost more than expected, or over- ran the budget
   plan. Cost Variance 13 Schedule variance, the second widely recognized
   The lowest points in the graph reflect the schedule indicator, is a
   measure of how much work was slip caused by work stoppages to evaluate
   safety accomplished versus how much work was planned concerns and
   implement required corrective actions. to be accomplished. A positive
   number indicates Although the project experienced an overall schedule
   more work accomplished than scheduled, or the deficit for the fiscal
   year, the performance in the project is ahead of schedule, while a
   negative second half of the year is the best experienced by number
   indicates less work was accomplished than the project to date. This
   performance improvement is expected, or the project is behind schedule.
   attributed to working safely, thus allowing work to continue without
   interruption for safety evaluations. The closure project started 2001
   behind schedule by If the site is able to maintain the positive trend
   of -0.8 percent, and finished the year ahead of schedule the last six
   months in these indicators, the 2006 site by +1.0 percent of work that
   was planned to be closure goal can be achieved. accomplished. As the
   following graph depicts, schedule performance deteriorated during the
   first Kaiser-Hill is performing very close to its plan. half of the
   year, but improved significantly in the The numbers indicate that the
   work is costing second half. slightly less than was planned, and is
   taking slightly longer to accomplish. Schedule Variance 14 Facility
   Disposition Closing Rocky Flats involves the elimination Building 707
   Closure Project:The buildingís of hundreds of facilities and structures
   nuclear mission was completed and the Material totaling approximately
   3.5 million square Access Area closed in support of the Protected Area
   feet of floor space. Current plans are to (PA) reconfiguration. Eleven
   deactivation worksets decommission and demolish all of the buildings.
   were completed, as well as deactivation and This includes cleaning out
   and decontaminating decommissioning of three modules. the buildings and
   disposing of waste and recyclable materials. Facilities are categorized
   into three types Building 371/374 Closure Project: Workers in the Rocky
   Flats Cleanup Agreement. Type 1 continued removing special nuclear
   material from facilities are buildings free of contamination; Type
   gloveboxes; moved ahead with deactivation and 2 are buildings without
   significant contamination or decommissioning planning; completed
   hazards, but in need of decontamination; and Type reconnaissance level
   characterization; continued 3 buildings have significant contamination
   and/or draining non-actinide solutions from tank systems; hazards
   (major plutonium facilities). initiated decontamination of tanks; and
   received approval of the Building 371 Decommissioning Work continued
   with the Colorado Department Operations Plan. Other activities included
   the of Public Health and Environment and the demolition of the cooling
   tower and tank farm Environmental Protection Agency to establish and on
   the north side of Building 371 and the removal implement a more
   efficient regulatory process for of gloveboxes from room 3408. The
   project D&D activities. To achieve this, three Rocky Flats implemented
   use of a vacuum system to remove Cleanup Agreement (RFCA) standard
   operating raschig rings from contaminated tanks. Raschig protocols were
   implemented. These protocols rings contain boron and were used to
   prevent cover facility disposition (demolition or removal), radioactive
   liquids from reaching criticality in component and equipment removal
   and large tanks. Using a vacuum to remove the rings decontamination,
   and concrete rubble recycling significantly reduces worker exposure in
   the tank for backfill. decommissioning process. The RFCA Standard
   Operating Protocol for Recycling Concrete, approved October 18, 1999,
   will reduce the volume of decommissioning waste by approximately
   100,000 cubic meters by allowing concrete to be recycled on-site. The
   RFCA Standard Operating Protocol for Facility Disposition and the RFCA
   Standard Operating Protocol for Building Component Removal and
   Decontamination Activities received approval in 2001. This yearís major
   facility disposition accomplishments are summarized by project below:
   Building 771/774 Project: The project team removed all of the hazardous
   actinide liquids from the building. In 2001, 166 of 240 gloveboxes and
   108 of 397 tanks were size reduced. Plasma arc cutting technology was
   successfully implemented for dismantling equipment and gloveboxes.
   Facility D&D Activities 15 Building 776/777 Closure Project: The
   project Sampling and Analysis Plan was drafted and continued equipment
   removal and disposal, approved by regulatory agencies. finishing 30
   decommissioning worksets. To date, All property and equipment was
   removed from 40 of 84 worksets are complete. The project buildings 865
   and 886 and the buildings were closed implemented a new decontamination
   technology for decommissioning, which will begin in the Spring on
   gloveboxes which resulted in packaging more of 2002. The progress in
   Building 886 is particularly gloveboxes as low-level waste (LLW) and
   important because, as the former criticality laboratory, generating
   less transuranic (TRU) waste. The LLW it held many hazards. no longer
   needs to be size-reduced, a significant safety improvement, because it
   can be shipped to Site closure depends on a major acceleration in the
   rate the Nevada Test Site of facility disposition in large waste in
   future years. In part, containers. Building acceleration will be
   776/777 merged its accomplished by decommissioning doing more parallel
   program work with deactivation and the Building 707 decommissioning
   Closure Project in an and by overlapping effort to improve
   decommissioning and efficiency. environmental restoration activities.
   Remediation, Industrial Property Decommissioning, Disposition and Site
   Services The Rocky Flats (RISS) Project: The property disposition
   decommissioning program involves the commercialization transfer of more
   than pilot project 600,000 items of continued for equipment and
   Building 111, as supplies off-site. For asbestos removal each item,
   this effort was completed. involves determining Demolition of the if it
   is classified; structure began the ensuring that the week of November
   object is not 12 and was hazardous or completed in controlled;
   December. The pilot establishing its value; project will provide a and
   transferring it template for efficient, to another user if the safe,
   and cost- value justifies the effective removal of expense. Type 1
   facilities. Following the Revenue from reconfiguration of the property
   sales held Protected Area, RISS Facility D&D Activities at the site in
   2001 removed several was approximately fences, barriers, and $550,000,
   which, access buildings no longer needed in the former through the
   Asset Management Pilot Program (an Perimeter Security Zone. The effort
   included safe innovative program that allows the site to retain removal
   of 25,000 feet of razor wire. funds from the sales of excess
   equipment), was used to continue the program and pay for Beryllium
   machining equipment in Building 444 additional D&D activities. This
   figure includes was removed, and property removal from receipts from
   auctions, competitive bid sales, Building 881 was completed. The
   Industrial Area sealed bids, a retail store, and negotiated sales. 16
   The site now utilizes the internet via a website to The site provided
   cargo containers to the Ellicott announce sales and accept bids.
   Another important Fire Department after the small Colorado town was
   change is the concept of ìsale in place,î which means devastated by a
   tornado. The site also donated the buyer has to pay for off-site
   shipping costs if a numerous excess items to small local police and
   fire large piece of equipment, such as a transformer, is departments.
   Shortly after September 11, 2001, the purchased. Even if the item is
   sold for only $1, the site shipped excess respirators to New York City
   for site saves money in dispositioning the item. use in emergency
   rescue and cleanup efforts. Approximately $4 million worth of property
   was The site continues to set aside property through a donated to state
   schools and organizations in 2001, list provided by participating
   Statesí Agencies for including about $200,000 to state and local
   Surplus Property that identifies property needed by governments. A
   grant for $33,300 was renewed to other states. Each month a different
   state on the Pueblo Community College that will continue rotation list
   picks up the property that has been set annually through closure to
   help administer the aside that month. The process has decreased the
   Sharing Electronic Equipment District and Statewide disruption of
   monthly auctions, and has resulted in a program. Through a Memorandum
   of agreement with significant acceleration of the property disposition
   Pueblo Community College, 3,838 computer items, process. This
   improvement will result in an estimated with an acquisition value of
   $3.6 million, were cost savings of $9.6 million through closure.
   donated to the program and distributed to schools. Size Reduction Using
   Plasma Arc Technology 17 Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement The Rocky Flats
   Cleanup Agreement tool for measuring schedule progress on a (RFCA) was
   signed by the DOE, the project. While EV is measured in dollars, it
   Environment Protection Agency Region represents units of completed
   project activities. VIII, and the Colorado Department of Public Health
   and Environment in 1996 to improve In 2001, the RFCA milestones were
   based on 50 the integration and streamlining of accelerated percent of
   the earned value scheduled in each of cleanup actions. The RFCA
   requires that three categories of regulated activities: milestones be
   established each year to measure decontamination and decommissioning
   (D&D), progress toward completion of accelerated low-level waste (LLW)
   shipments, and cleanup as described by the RFCA Vision and transuranic
   (TRU) waste shipments. This interim end state. EV metric represents
   approximately six months of work schedule and is designed to maintain a
   Earned Value Framework regulatory driver for accelerated cleanup. The
   In 2001, the RFCA parties established an EV milestone structure equates
   to a six-month innovative framework for measuring regulatory schedule
   variance over the life of the project, milestones. The framework is
   based on earned while allowing the site flexibility to sequence the
   value (EV) derived from the closure project work in the most efficient
   manner. The 2001 EV baseline. Earned value is an industry-accepted
   framework is illustrated in the following table. RFCA Milestone
   Framework Summary Fiscal Year 2001 Fiscal Year 2002 Fiscal Year 2003
   Complete 50% of the EV scheduled in 2001 in the D&D, LL, and TRU
   categories. The remaining 50% of 2001 Complete the remaining 2001 EV.
   Complete the remaining 2002 EV. EV must be completed in 2002 in
   Complete 50% of the EV scheduled in Complete 50% of the EV scheduled in
   addition to 50% of the 2002 schedule EV. 2002 in the D&D, LL, ER, and
   TRU 2003 in the D&D, LL, ER, and TRU In this manner, the project must
   stay categories. categories. within 6 months variance of scheduled work
   to remain in compliance. Buffer Zone Wildlife 18 Guard Tower Demolition
   Fiscal Year 2001 RFCA RSAL Modification RFCA Milestone Achievement The
   need for integrated discussion of environmental The site met or
   exceeded all RFCA milestones for cleanup issues led the Site,
   regulatory agencies, 2001 as summarized in the table below. Since the
   and stakeholders to form the Rocky Flats Cleanup site completed excess
   amounts of EV in two Agreement Focus Group. During 2001, this group
   categories, D&D and low-level waste shipments, focused its efforts on
   understanding the technical the work completed beyond the regulatory
   issues associated with calculating radionuclide soil milestone is being
   applied in accordance with the action levels (RSALs). While a final
   report is not milestone framework. yet approved, it will be the
   technical basis for the new surface soil Milestone Achievement RSAL
   that will serve as a basis 100% EV ($) 50% EV ($) EV ($) Milestone for
   accelerated Milestone Scheduled Scheduled Completed Met cleanup
   actions. The RSALs will 50% FY01Scheduled be modified by $24.616M
   $12.308M $27.506M Yes D&D EV the RFCA parties in 2002 after a thorough
   review 50% FY01Scheduled $3.171M $1.586M $11.170M Yes of the technical
   LLW EV basis policy and regulatory 50% FY01Scheduled $1.157M $579K
   $618K Yes implications, and TRU EV a public reviewand comment period.
   Total $28.944M $14.473M $39.294M 19 Environmental Restoration
   Horizontal Directional was recognized with the 2001 DOE Pollution
   Drilling/Pollution Prevention Award Prevention Award in its unique
   adaptation of Two under building contamination (UBC) horizontal
   directional drilling technology. characterizations were conducted at
   Rocky Flats using horizontal directional drilling with 903 Pad
   environmental measurement while drilling. The soil Five surface water
   performance monitoring stations samples were collected along with
   real-time Gamma were installed around the 903 Pad area to determine Ray
   Spectrometer data to determine the extent of the baseline surface water
   quality to support future UBC. The project characterized soils beneath
   the remediation of the 903 Pad Building 123 slab and Building 886. In
   addition, soil and Lip Area. This monitoring Horizontal samples were
   collected using Geoprobe subsurface network is designed to collect
   sampling to compare the cost efficiency and drilling surface water flow
   from the performance of the horizontal directional drilling 903 Pad
   Area. A Phase I soil reduced the process with conventional techniques.
   removal vacuum technology amount of demonstration was conducted to
   evaluate the feasibility of waste using vacuum extraction produced
   technology as a remedial alternative for removing and radioactive
   surficial soils. The increased technology employs a high- volume vacuum
   coupled to a worker safety high-pressure air excavator. Phase 1 was
   conducted to demonstrate ability to excavate 1-2 inch soil lifts, and
   was successfully conducted at an uncontaminated location offsite on a
   50-foot-by-50-foot plot. The Phase II demonstration was performed at
   full-scale to identify economic and safety feasibility. The site is
   optimistic that modifications to the equipment will Horizontal Drilling
   prove successful and is identifying firms capable of assisting in
   modifying the equipment design. The horizontal directional drilling
   employed a Advantages of successfully deploying this technology
   hydraulic hammer drill instead of the traditional include minimizing
   excavation of clean soil, and rotary mud drilling methods that generate
   minimizing drainage to existing flora. considerable waste. This
   approach reduced the volume of waste generated, minimized the potential
   spread of contamination in the workersí area, and reduced workersí
   exposure to contamination. The horizontal drilling method collected
   samples specifically within the target area under the process waste
   lines. The technique is effective in cases in which waste minimization
   and spread of contamination are major issues. At Building 886, data
   indicated that no radiological or chemical contamination exist above
   Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement (RFCA) intrerim action levels. At
   Building 123, there were three isolated sample locations where arsenic
   and lead exceeded RFCA action levels. No other potential contaminants
   exceeded action levels. This project was partially funded by EM-50
   Subsurface Contaminantís Focus Area. Recently, the project 903 Pad 20
   Industrial Area chemicals or radionuclides in excess of RFCA Tier I SAP
   and Buffer Zone SAP action levels in subsurface soil. Arsenic was The
   Industrial Area Sampling and Analysis Plan detected in soil at three
   locations in excess of both (IASAP) was approved by the CDPHE on June
   18, Tier II and background levels. Groundwater was 2001. The IASAP is a
   decision document to guide encountered and sampled at four of the 16
   sample sampling in the Industrial Area. It provides sampling locations.
   There were no chemical constituents that and analytical methods and
   protocols for surface and exceeded Tier I action levels in groundwater.
   Nitrate subsurface soil characterization as well as for post
   remediation confirmation sampling and analysis of the Industrial Area.
   The Buffer Zone Sampling and Analysis Plan (BZSAP) was submitted to the
   regulatory agencies for their review and approval on July 30, 2001. The
   BZSAP describes surface and subsurface soil characterization and
   remediation confirmation sampling activities for Individual Hazardous
   Substance Sites, Potential Areas of Concern, and Under Building
   Contamination. The SAP facilitates near real-time remedial action
   decision- making in the field. The RFFO anticipates approval of the
   BZSAP in December 2001. ER RSOP The Environmental Restoration RFCA
   Standard Operating Protocol for Routine Soil Remediation (ER RSOP) was
   submitted to the regulatory agencies on September 10, Winter at Rocky
   Flats 2001, for review and approval. This decision document addresses
   and a variety of radionuclides, metals, and volatile routine soil
   remediation. organic compounds exceeded Tier II action levels in
   groundwater at the four locations. These results do Under Building not
   suggest either a definitive point source of Contamination Building 771
   contamination or a potential source location. Based The site is
   planning two characterization sample on these preliminary data, there
   does not appear to phases for Building 771. The building was used be
   contamination within the Building 771 UBC that for foundry and
   machining operations, residue and would warrant removal of the concrete
   footing. metal recovery, coating inspection, and chemistry However,
   final decisions will be made when the research. The ER team completed
   the Phase 1 entire Building 771 UBC characterization is preliminary
   characterization of the Building 771 complete. Phase 2 will follow
   further interior perimeter to investigate potential characterization
   beneath 771 and 774 concrete contamination beneath the building
   foundation foundations, as well as characterization of footing, and
   support the demolition strategy. Thirty- individual hazardous substance
   sites, potential areas two subsurface soil samples at 16 locations were
   of concern, and tanks located outside of Buildings collected during the
   Phase I characterization of the 771 and 774. The Phase 2 activities are
   planned at under building contamination. Results indicated no the time
   of building remediation. 21 Habitat Management The approximately
   6,000-acre Rocky Flats control project is being utilized to supplement
   the Buffer Zone remains one of the unique siteís existing cooperative
   effort with the Colorado habitat areas along the Front Range of
   Department of Agriculture. Colorado. Natural resource surveys are
   completed These combined efforts annually to monitor the viability and
   stability of this A Prebleís have provided a number of biota and
   vegetation resource. This data serves as a Meadow biological control
   insects baseline by which the environmental success of site that are
   used for noxious Jumping closure activities will be measured. The
   following weeds control during the paragraphs describe the yearís
   accomplishments in Mouse caught 2001 field season. habitat management
   at Rocky Flats in Smart Ditch confirms the Prebleís Meadow Vegetation
   Management presence of Jumping Mouse Noxious weeds are exotic
   (non-native) plants, largely Rocky Flats employees from other
   continents, that have been inadvertently suitable habitat continued the
   annual introduced into the United States. These plants can Prebleís
   Meadow Jumping Mouse (listed as a threatened species) trapping surveys
   with captures in both the spring and fall 2001 survey efforts. Surveys
   are grouped by stream drainage on a rotating survey cycle. Surveys
   completed during the last year were directed toward obtaining
   population numbers to assess population stability in the Woman Creek
   drainage, which included Smart Ditch. Trapping efforts resulted in
   eight Prebleís mice captured in Woman Creek and one Prebleís mouse
   captured in Smart Ditch. Knapweed in the Buffer Zone cause serious
   environmental or economic impact through their introduction. Rocky
   Flats implemented an integrated noxious weed control strategy in 1997
   which calls for noxious weed control by a range of options including
   administrative, cultural, physical/mechanical, biological and chemical.
   Before 1990, it was rare to find diffuse knapweed on the site. By 1997,
   diffuse knapweed had invaded the site and was causing great
   environmental harm as it displaced native prairie vegetation. The
   application of aerial herbicide treatment in the spring of 1999,
   followed by aerial treatments in 2000 and 2001, reduced the frequency
   of diffuse knapweed across the site. Through a Memorandum of Agreement
   with the US Fish & Wildlife Service to jointly manage the Rock Creek
   Reserve, a Texas A&M University biological Prebleís Meadow Jumping
   Mouse 22 Habitat Protection The US Fish and Wildlife Service has been
   co- managing the Rock Creek Reserve through a Memorandum of Agreement
   signed in 1999. The Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan was
   completed in 2001 and serves as the guiding document for protection and
   enhancement of the natural resources in the Reserve. Aspects of the
   Integrated Natural Management Plan are directed toward natural resource
   management processes that will ensure compatibility with a wildlife
   refuge designation. US Fish and Wildlife Service management included
   involvement in the vegetation management described above. It also
   provided review and comment on plans and reports that may impact the
   Reserve. Wetlands In 1996, DOE funded construction of 12 acres of
   wetland adjacent to the Woman Creek Reservoir Authority wetlands. The
   DOE wetland was created to provide wetland ìcreditsî to offset
   destruction of Flowers in the Buffer Zone wetlands from cleanup and
   closure activities on the Trapping results are consistent with previous
   site. Credits will be accumulated in a ìwetlands yearsí trapping in
   Woman Creek, indicating a bankî as the closure project continues. This
   wetland stable population. The captured mouse in Smart will be the
   first ìdepositî in that bank. The RFFO Ditch, a juvenile, was the first
   one trapped there began field work in 2001 to demonstrate that the
   since 1993. This confirmed that some suitable DOE- funded wetland meets
   the US Corps of habitat exists in the drainage, although results
   Engineers wetland criteria. Field work will continue from past trapping
   efforts in this area indicate next year to obtain certification of
   wetland the population is very sparse. suitability from the US Corps of
   Engineers. Looking Back at Rocky Flats 23 Long-Term Stewardship
   Long-term stewardship continues to be an the two. RFFO recently
   assigned a senior manager with issue of great importance to the
   community the overall responsibility of formulating stewardship and to
   DOE. Long-term stewardship refers to policy and ensuring that
   stewardship planning is a part those activities that will be needed
   following site of decisions affecting the siteís end-state. closure to
   ensure that the cleanup remains One of the first tangible protective
   and to ensure benefits of these land management organizational changes
   practices are appropriate was the incorporation and compliant. of
   stewardship concerns Stewardship activities in a major site decision
   include environmental document, the monitoring, use and Environmental
   maintenance of Restoration RFCA engineered controls such Standard
   Operating as caps and covers, use Protocol for Routine Soil of
   institutional controls Remediation (ER RSOP). to restrict access or
   land The ER RSOP, when use, prairie management, approved, will allow
   and record keeping. Since Rocky Flats to perform there will be residual
   soil removal actions contamination left at the across the site without
   site following cleanup, a having to produce or robust long-term obtain
   regulatory stewardship program will approval for individual be needed
   to ensure the Conducting Wildlife Survey in the Buffer Zone decision
   documents, continued protection of thereby streamlining the human
   health and the environment. cleanup process. In response to community
   concerns, DOE and Kaiser-Hill broadened the ER The Rocky Flats Citizens
   Advisory Board and the RSOP to include those stewardship considerations
   Rocky Flats Coalition of Local Governments that would lead to expanding
   cleanup actions. continued their joint efforts on stewardship in the
   The ER RSOP includes protocols whereby the form of the Stewardship
   Working Group. The stewardship implications of individual cleanup
   Working Group produced a major report, Hand-in- actions will be
   retained to ensure they are Hand: Stewardship and Cleanup, which was
   released addressed in the siteís final Record of Decision. in March
   2001. This document includes a number of recommendations for DOE to
   consider in formulating DOE is now beginning to draft the Rocky Flats
   its stewardship policy, including a basic philosophy Stewardship
   Strategy. The Strategy will include the that stewardship considerations
   should be overall goals and policies for long-term stewardship
   incorporated into the remedy selection process. The at the site, as
   well as specific stewardship planning document also included a
   stewardship ìtoolbox,î an in a number of areas, including institutional
   approach by which stewardship concerns can be controls, engineered
   controls, monitoring and factored into remedy design. maintenance,
   record keeping, and community involvement. DOE has shared an outline of
   the DOE RFFO has taken a number of steps to respond Strategy with the
   community, and is working to community concerns about long-term
   stewardship, on drafts of stewardship policies, summaries and to put
   into place an effective stewardship of existing stewardship guidance,
   and end- program. As part of the RFFO organizational re- state
   assumptions that will be shared with the alignment, stewardship
   responsibilities were placed community. DOE anticipates that the
   strategy will in the new Office of the Assistant Manager for be
   completed during 2002 and will be updated as Environment and
   Stewardship. This move aligns the closure project proceeds. DOE will
   coordinate stewardship with environmental programs that will closely
   with its regulators and the public most directly affect the siteís
   stewardship obligations, (especially the Stewardship Working Group) and
   allows close planning and coordination between as it prepares the
   strategy. 24 Radionuclide Soil Action Levels The Department of Energy,
   the Environmental RSALs were developed in 1996, including an Protection
   Agency, and the Colorado independent calculation of RSALs commissioned
   Department of Public Health and Environment by the Radionuclide Soil
   Action Levels are establishing new Radionuclide Soil Action Levels
   Oversight Panel and conducted by the Risk (RSALs) for plutonium,
   americium and uranium to Assessment Corporation. guide the cleanup at
   Rocky Flats. These RSALs will replace the interim levels established in
   1996. The The current RSAL review process involves five RSALs are the
   activity concentrations of separate tasks. They are: Regulatory
   Analysis, radionuclides such as plutonium and americium in Computer
   Model Selection, Parameter Evaluation, soils that, if exceeded, trigger
   an evaluation, a New Science, and Determining Cleanup Goals at remedial
   action, or a management action. Existing Radiologically Contaminated
   Sites. An extensive and RSALs are under review and new RSALs are being
   inclusive public participation process was established established for
   a number of reasons, including: to obtain maximum community input into
   the ï The Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement requires an development of each
   task report. annual review of action levels. To date, all five task
   reports have been completed. ï The current RSALs have been
   controversial among The draft Task 3 report is currently undergoing
   peer local governments and community members. review, after which all
   five task reports will be ï A draft Environmental Protection Agency
   rule that compiled in one report. This final report will include was
   used as the basis for the current RSALs was the agenciesí proposed RSAL
   values, and will be never promulgated. issued for formal public
   comment. This is anticipated to occur early in calendar year 2002.
   Final RSAL ï New technical information relevant to the values are
   expected to be established and RSALs has become available since the
   current incorporated into RFCA in the Spring of 2002. Winter Scene 25
   Legal and Litigation Activities T Open OIG Findings he Office of Chief
   Counsel continues to protect The Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
   government interests in litigation, regulatory has oversight authority
   for the activities compliance issues, and other actions related to
   conducted at all DOE facilities and sites. Rocky Flats and the Closure
   Project. During the past year no new actions were opened for Rocky
   Flats in any of the OIG In a major development in September 2001, Judge
   audits. However, the following open audit Walker Miller dismissed a
   False Claims Act case actions have not yet been closed. against three
   Rocky Flats contractors. Investigation of these cases by the Government
   found them to be without merit. The Government sought dismissal of OIG
   0411 the case in order to protect national security interests Audit of
   the Contractor Incentive and to avoid unjustified interference with the
   Closure Programs at RFETS Project. The dismissal of the case will
   preserve several million dollars of funds for closure activities. OIG
   0425 Audit of DOEís Facility Reuse at This is only the second time the
   Department of Rocky Flats Justice has sought a dismissal of this kind.
   The case may set a precedent for other Government facilities OIG 0475
   who see the disadvantages of this kind of litigation Audit of
   Non-Nuclear Weapons outweighing any possible recovery that might be
   Parts at Rocky Flats achieved by the Government. View of the Front
   Range from the Buffer Zone 26 Waste Management Waste Isolation Pilot
   Project T 2002 through 2005. Rocky Flats is now aggressively he Rocky
   Flats TRU waste program overcame planning to complete 15 shipments per
   week in 2002, several barriers, especially those pertaining to more
   than double the rate in 2001. This accelerated the new RCRA Part B
   permit issued by the shipping rate will help to assure the achievement
   of State of New Mexico accelerated site closure. Environment
   Department. Despite several shipment The Waste Loading Facility
   Construction delays due to either adverse Construction of the Building
   440 Transuranic Waste site is winter conditions or Shipping Facility
   was completed in September 2001. shipment moratoriums after
   aggressively Construction of the facility began in the spring of the
   terrorist attacks, the site 2001 with the construction contract awarded
   to The planning continued to lead the DOE Washington Group. complex in
   number of 15 shipments and volume of shipments transuranic (TRU) waste
   shipped to the Waste per week Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP). in 2002
   Rocky Flats completed 162 shipments containing 1,044.33 cubic meters of
   TRU waste. Rocky Flats contributed 54 percent of the total volume
   shipped to WIPP from all DOE sites in 2001. Less than a year ago the
   site was shipping at a rate of one to two shipments of TRU waste per
   week. The goal of 10 shipments per week by the end of calendar year
   2001 appeared to be unreachable at that time. However, persistence
   toward the closure goal allowed Rocky Flats to achieve the level of
   seven shipments per week by the end of 2001. With the additional
   loading facilities available in Building 440, 15 shipments per week
   should be attainable, provided TRU waste characterization can continue
   to keep up with the shipping rate. The original 2006 closure project
   baseline calls for shipping an average of nine shipments per week from
   Workers Loading TRUPACT II TRUPACT II On the Road 27 The new shipping
   facility is located adjacent to the ï A subcontract was awarded to
   remove the Solar Building 440 Waste Storage Building. The Building Pond
   sludge from the 750 Pad tanks. Removal of 440 Shipping Module has two
   loading bays each with the sludge is scheduled to begin in January
   2002. a bridge crane and all equipment necessary to operate
   independently and simultaneously. The facility ï A Memorandum of
   Agreement was entered into increases Rocky Flatsí capacity to load
   TRUPACT II with the Department of Energy Nevada Operations containers
   to be shipped to the Waste Isolation Pilot Office to work toward
   obtaining a Resource Plant in Carlsbad, New Mexico. The new shipping
   Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Permit so facility will allow the
   site to load up to 15 shipments the Nevada Test Site can receive Rocky
   Flatsí low- of transuranic waste per week. The facility level mixed
   waste for disposal beginning in 2003. commenced operations at the end
   of November 2001 after completion of a Readiness Assessment. Orphan
   Wastes The Federal Facilities Compliance Act, which Off-site Waste
   Shipment and Disposal amended the Resource Conservation and A record
   amount of low-level waste, 13,197 cubic Recovery Act (RCRA), requires
   that DOE submit meters, was disposed at the Nevada Test Site in 2001.
   Site Treatment Plans (STP) to state regulatory This is the most
   low-level waste ever shipped off site agencies if they do not have
   suitable treatment in one year since the Closure Project began.
   capacity to treat these wastes to meet RCRA Land Disposal Restriction
   standards. There are many Decontamination taking wastes at the site
   covered by the Rocky Flats The site place in several former STP. These
   wastes are called orphan wastes nuclear buildings is because no obvious
   disposal pathway, or ìhomeî anticipates producing large amounts has yet
   been determined. shipping of waste that was previously forecast to be
   Although significant success has been made in the 17,000 transuranic
   waste, but new last few years finding ways to move several orphan
   decontamination processes waste streams off-site for treatment and
   disposal, cubic meters are reducing radioactive many orphan waste
   streams still await disposition. of low-level levels of the waste to
   The site is working with potential treatment and those within the
   low-level disposal facilities to ensure the timely disposition waste in
   range. Much of the low- 2002 level waste is being shipped in the
   surface Waste Shipped in Cubic Centimeters contaminated object (SCO)
   category. This process, which is enabling the waste disposal process to
   be Waste Type 2000 2001 streamlined, originated in the Building 779
   removal project and is now being utilized in Buildings 707, Low-level
   7750 13,197 776/777 and 771/774. Low-level mixed 520 212 Other
   accomplishments in the management of low- level/low-level mixed waste
   include: Transuranic 279 1,044 ï Three tankers of non-PCB organic
   liquids were shipped to the Toxic Substance Control Act of these wastes
   to support closure. Calendar year Incinerator in Oak Ridge, TN. The
   shipment of 2001 orphan waste accomplishments include: liquids for
   treatment is a Site Treatment Plan milestone, regulated by the State of
   Colorado. One Acids (RF-W016)/Miscellaneous Liquids ñ shipment remains
   to be made in 2002. Aqueous Portion (RF-W049): Treatment of the acids
   and miscellaneous liquids shipped to ATG, a ï More than 1,480
   containers of waste chemicals waste treatment facility in Washington,
   was regulated under the Waste Chemical Compliance completed May 18,
   2001. Envirocare approved the Advisory were repacked into 120 drums and
   are in waste profile, and residues were shipped to that site the
   process of being shipped off-site. for disposal in August 2001. 28
   Granular Activated Carbon (GAC) from ER treatment. The fifth batch is
   presently being sampled Wastewater Treatment (RF-071): The 22 cubic and
   consolidated and will be shipped to Oak Ridge in meters of GAC
   scheduled for shipment to the early 2002, contingent upon State of
   Tennessee Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) incinerator approval of
   the 2002 Burn Plan. at Oak Ridge is staged and awaiting State of
   Tennessee approval of the 2002 Burn Plan. Once Solar Pond Sludge
   (RF-W088): A contract to approval is granted, the GAC will be shipped
   for stabilize approximately 2,700 cubic meters of solar treatment. A
   second GAC shipment comprised of pond sludge stored in tanks on the 750
   Pad was approximately 20 cubic meters is scheduled for awarded to
   Duratek-LATA, LLC in October 2001. shipment in late fiscal year 2002,
   contingent upon The schedule shows the mobilization of stabilization
   the Burn Plan approval. equipment on-site in January 2002 and all solar
   pond sludge stabilized by mid-year. PCB Liquids (RF-W017), Organic
   Liquids, Non- PCB Liquids (RF-W046): The polychlorinated Building 374
   Nitrate Salts (RF-W080): Building biphenyls (PCB) contam
