http://www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov/dismissalplan.htm



   [MINNESOTA_SEAL.gif]

                                                  HONOLULU-PACIFIC

   FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD

    GUIDELINES FOR DISMISSAL OF FEDERAL

   EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCIES

                                 [rain.gif]

      PURPOSE OF PLAN

   The purpose of this plan is to have a course of action to respond to
   emergency situations that may prevent significant numbers of employees
   on the island of Oahu from reporting for work on time or that require
   agencies to close all or part of their activities. This document is
   designed to provide:

     * The guidance and operational procedures required to eliminate or
       reduce the potential harm to federal employees from adverse weather
       conditions (high wind, high surf, flash flood, hurricane, tsunami),
       disruptions of power and/or water, riots, civil disturbances, acts
       of war, acts of terrorism or chemical/biological threats.
     * Recommendations on dismissal or non-dismissal of federal employees
       during emergencies. When the recommendation is to stay open, the
       FEB will issue an advisory statement to that effect as well.

   AUTHORITY

   The authority for this action is the Federal Executive Board charter
   given by President John F. Kennedy on November 1, 1961 and Part 960 of
   Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations. "The Federal Executive
   Boards shall be responsible for….emergency operations, such as under
   hazardous weather conditions; responding to blood donation needs; and
   communicating related leave policies;" 5 CFR 960.107. The plan outlined
   here is consistent with the Office of Personnel Management’s (OPM)
   Emergency Dismissal Procedures for the Washington, D.C. area.

   OVERVIEW

   All employees are to presume, unless otherwise notified, that their
   office or activity will be open each regular workday regardless of any
   adverse weather or other conditions that may develop.

   When offices cannot be opened or employees cannot report, it is
   important that all federal agencies affected by the same emergency
   conditions coordinate their plans in advance for releasing or excusing
   employees. This includes establishing common leave and dismissal
   policies to avoid confusion and to promote equitable treatment of
   employees.

   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS DEFINED

   An emergency situation is one that may prevent significant numbers of
   employees from reporting for work or may require partially or totally
   closing federal activities. Covered conditions include adverse weather
   conditions (high wind, high surf, flash flood, hurricane, tsunami),
   disruptions of power, and/or water, major fires, massive power
   failures, serious interruptions to public transportation, riots, civil
   disturbances, acts of war, acts of terrorism or chemical/biological
   threats or other catastrophic conditions.

   In Hawaii, severe weather or ocean conditions are most likely to
   activate this plan. Isolated emergencies, such as fire at a single
   facility or bomb threats are covered by that facility’s emergency plan.
   This guideline is not intended for use in isolated emergencies. It is
   issued solely to coordinate the dismissal of federal employees in those
   situations where all or most federal activities on Oahu would be
   closing.

   GEOGRAPHIC AREA COVERED BY THESE GUIDELINES

   Procedures are applicable to Oahu only due to the limitations of the
   emergency notification system and the diverse conditions of the
   neighbor islands. Agencies who have offices on the neighbor islands
   should provide guidance to their managers and supervisors to make
   decisions regarding dismissal as dictated by local conditions.

   FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

   The recommendation to dismiss early or to stay open will be developed
   by the FEB Chair with input from the Executive Director and, as time
   permits, the Policy Committee based on information provided by State
   Civil Defense, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) or the Prince
   Kuhio Federal Building Designated Official.

   In an emergency, which only affects the Prince Kuhio Federal Building
   and its tenant agencies, the Building Designated Official, the 14th
   Coast Guard District Commander and GSA representatives in coordination
   with the FEB, will make recommendations to close the building, stay
   open or dismiss early.

     * During work hours, the General Services Administration (GSA) will
       use the public address system to make an announcement throughout
       the Prince Kuhio Federal Building.

   Agency contact personnel will be notified of the FEB’s recommendation
   to close, dismiss or stay open by the State Civil Defense computer
   and/or the Emergency Telephone Cascade Notification System.

   The FEB will maintain a current data base file of all Oahu federal
   agency primary and alternate emergency contact points with work, home,
   and cell telephone numbers. At least annually, the FEB Chair will
   request that each federal agency on Oahu provide the FEB with updated
   information for the data base.

   The FEB will coordinate with the Oahu Civil Defense and will serve in
   the Oahu Civil Defense Agency emergency operations center.

   The FEB will provide information to the following news media concerning
   status of public services and federal employees’ reporting
   requirements:

     * State Civil Defense (for access to the Emergency Broadcast System)
     * Other appropriate media such as radio or television

     o Radio and television announcements will be general in nature

     o Agencies are encouraged to notify the general public of any
     service disruption

   The Federal Executive Board will also notify the Office of Personnel
   Management in Washington, D.C. of any closure or adjusted work
   schedule. Upon receiving notification from the FEB, the Director will
   be informed of the situation and the information will be posted on
   OPM’s web site.

   The Federal Executive Board will update its web site at
   www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov with the FEB’s recommendation and the
   status of federal agencies on Oahu.

   The FEB Chair will advise federal agencies in writing of any scheduled
   tests of the emergency automated response system or use of the
   Emergency Telephone Cascade Notification System.

   The FEB will review and update this plan annually.

   AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES

   Within agencies existing communication systems will be used. Agencies
   are urged to keep a copy of this plan both in the office and at home
   and to provide a copy to their designated contact personnel.

   Agencies should identify emergency personnel and notify them in writing
   that they are designated as "emergency employees." The term "emergency
   employee" is used to designate those employees who must report for work
   in emergency situations. The notice should include the requirement that
   "emergency employees" report for or remain at work in emergency
   situations and an explanation that dismissal or closure announcements
   do not apply to them unless they are instructed otherwise. If an agency
   determines that a situation requires employees not designated as
   "emergency employees" to report to work or remain at work during an
   emergency, the agency should establish a procedure for notifying them
   individually.

   If possible, agencies should report their dismissal decisions by
   calling the FEB at 541-2637/38 and leaving a message on the recorder
   describing what services will or will not be available to the public
   and reporting requirements for incoming workers. This information will
   provide the FEB with a consolidated view of agency status. It will also
   be posted on the FEB web page at www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov.

   If the FEB’s Emergency Telephone Cascade Notification System is unable
   to telephone your agency contact personnel, you can call the FEB office
   at 541-2637/38 for a recording of the recommendation and the latest
   status of the emergency situation.

   Agencies should immediately notify the FEB at 541-2637/38 whenever
   there are any changes in designated contact personnel or their
   telephone numbers.

   AGENCY PLANS

   The FEB highly recommends each agency develop a written plan to address
   preparation for and operations during emergency conditions and to
   review it annually. Dismissal plans should at least contain the
   following:

     * Designation of "emergency positions" and procedures for informing
       employees in these positions of that designation in writing.
     * Methods for informing non-emergency employees who are at work of
       dismissal decisions and procedures for informing employees at home
       to remain there.
     * Methods for informing employees of termination of the emergency and
       requirements for returning to work.
     * This plan as an attachment.

   PREROGATIVES OF AGENCIES

   Agency officials have authority to dismiss employees during emergency
   conditions and nothing prevents them from dismissing employees in the
   absence of a FEB recommendation. The FEB recommendation is advisory
   only and participation is voluntary; however, agencies are strongly
   encouraged to give special consideration to the advisory when making a
   decision. Deviations should be reserved for special conditions relating
   to such factors as geography or unique agency missions so that both the
   public and our own employees will better understand our actions.

   EMERGENCY ANNOUNCEMENTS

   EMERGENCIES DURING NON-WORK HOURS (after 4:00 p.m. and before 6:00
   a.m.)

   The FEB will provide one of the following five announcements when an
   emergency occurs during non-work (after 4:00 p.m. and before 6:00
   a.m.). (For additional guidance on excused absence, see the paragraph
   following this table.)

                           Emergency Announcement

                           What Announcement Means

                             Additional Guidance

   1. "Federal agencies on Oahu are OPEN for business as usual.  Employees
   are expected to report for work on time."

   Federal agencies will open on time, and employees are expected to
   report for work as scheduled.

   Agencies should be as flexible as possible in approving annual leave or
   LWOP for employees who face emergency situations or other hardships
   (e.g., when schools/child care centers open late or are closed).

   2. "Federal agencies on Oahu, are OPEN for business as usual under an
   UNSCHEDULED LEAVE policy. Employees may take leave without prior
   approval."

   Federal agencies will open on time, but employees not designated as
   "emergency employees" may take annual leave or leave without pay (LWOP)
   without the prior approval of their supervisors. "Emergency employees"
   are expected to report for work on time.

   Employees must inform their supervisors if they plan to take annual
   leave or LWOP. If an employee fails to report for work and has not
   informed the supervisor of his or her plans to take leave, the agency
   may charge the employee absence without leave (AWOL).

   3. "Federal agencies on Oahu are OPEN for business as usual under an
   ADJUSTED HOME DEPARTURE policy. Employees are requested to leave home
   ## hours later than their normal departure time."

   Federal agencies will open on time, but employees not designated, as
   "emergency employees" should adjust their normal home departure time
   consistent with the announcement. Employees who arrive late for work
   will be excused without loss of pay or charge to leave. Agencies have
   discretionary authority to determine the amount of excused absence to
   grant in such cases. "Emergency employees" are expected to report for
   work on time.

   Agencies may use OPM’s "Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules,
   December 1996" (section 12, "Flexible Work Schedules," paragraph 1) to
   determine the normal arrival time of employees on flexible work
   schedules. The handbook is available on OPM’s website at
   www.opm.gov/oca/aws.


   4. "Federal agencies on Oahu are OPEN for business as usual under an
   ADJUSTED HOME DEPARTURE/ UNSCHEDULED LEAVE policy. Employees are
   requested to leave home ## hours later than their normal departure
   time. Employees may take leave without prior approval."

   Federal agencies will open on time, but employees not designated as
   "emergency employees" should adjust their normal home departure time
   consistent with the announcement. Employees who arrive late for work
   will be excused without loss of pay or charge to leave. Agencies have
   discretionary authority to determine the amount of excused absence to
   grant in such cases. Employees may take annual leave or LWOP without
   the prior approval of their supervisors. "Emergency employees" are
   expected to report for work on time.

   Employees must inform their supervisors if they plan to take annual
   leave or LWOP. Employees who take leave will be charged leave for the
   entire workday.
   Agencies may use OPM’s "Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules,
   December 1996" (section 12, "Flexible Work Schedules," paragraph 1) to
   determine the normal departure time of employees on flexible work
   schedules. The handbook is available on OPM’s website at
   www.opm.gov/oca/aws.


   5. "Federal agencies are CLOSED."

   Employees not designated as "emergency employees" (including
   telecommuting employees at an alternative work site) are excused from
   duty without loss of pay or charge to leave. "Emergency employees" are
   expected to report for work on time.

   Workdays on which a federal activity is closed are non workdays for
   leave purposes. Employees who are on approved leave before the closure
   must be granted excused absence. This does not apply to employees on
   LWOP, military leave, suspension, or in a nonpay status.
   Employees on alternative work schedules (AWS) are not entitled to
   another AWS day off "in lieu of" the workday on which the agency is
   closed.

   Excused Absence–Agencies may excuse an employee without loss of pay or
   charge to leave (i.e., grant a reasonable amount of excused absence) if
   the employee is unavoidably delayed in arriving for work. Factors such
   as distance, availability of transportation, the need to make
   alternative child care arrangements, and the success of other employees
   in similar situations should be considered in determining the amount of
   excused absence to grant. However, employees have no entitlement to
   excused absence. Agencies must notify employees of the procedures to be
   followed in this situation.

   EMERGENCIES DURING NORMAL WORK HOURS (6:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.)

   When an emergency situation occurs during normal work hours, the FEB
   may announce that federal agencies on Oahu, are operating under an
   ADJUSTED WORK DISMISSAL policy. When this announcement is made,
   employees should be dismissed relative to their normal departure times
   from work. For example, if a 3-hour ADJUSTED WORK DISMISSAL policy is
   announced, workers who normally leave their offices at 3:30 p.m. would
   be authorized to leave at 12:30 p.m. (For additional guidance on
   excused absence, see the paragraph following the table below.)

   How is leave handled when the FEB announces an ADJUSTED WORK DISMISSAL
   policy?

                               Employee Action

                                Leave Policy

   Employee is on duty.

   Agency should grant excused absence for the remainder of the workday
   following the employee’s authorized time of dismissal even if the
   employee is scheduled to take leave later in the day.

   Employee leaves before official announcement of ADJUSTED WORK DISMISSAL
   policy or before the time set for his or her dismissal.

   The agency should charge leave for the remainder of the workday
   following the time of the employee’s departure.

   Employee is scheduled to return from leave after official announcement
   of ADJUSTED WORK DISMISSAL policy, but before the time set for his or
   her dismissal.

   The agency should grant excused absence for the remainder of the
   workday following the time of the official announcement through the
   remainder of the workday, even if the employee is scheduled to take
   leave again later in the workday.

   Employee is telecommuting at an alternative work site.

   Agency should grant excused absence for the remainder of the workday
   following what would be the employee’s authorized time of dismissal.

   Employee is absent on previously approved leave (annual, sick, or leave
   without pay (LWOP)) for the entire workday.

   The agency should continue to charge the employee leave for the entire
   workday.

   Employee fails to report for work.

   The agency should charge AWOL or permit the employee to request annual
   leave, sick leave, or LWOP, as appropriate, for the entire workday.
   Exceptions to this policy should be made only in unusual circumstances.

   Excused Absence–Agencies may excuse an employee without loss of pay or
   charge to leave (i.e., grant a reasonable amount of excused absence) to
   avoid hardships. For example, excused absence may be granted to
   employees who need to leave before official announcement of an Adjusted
   Work Dismissal policy or before the employee’s authorized time of
   dismissal because younger children are released from school/child care
   centers earlier than the announced dismissal time and no alternative
   forms of child care are available. However, employees have no
   entitlement to excused absence. Agencies must notify employees of the
   procedures to be followed in these situations.

   For More Information
   :

     * The status of Federal Government operations is available on OPM’s
       web site at www.opm.gov
     * For more information on excused absences, leave and work scheduling
       policies contact OPM’s Office of Compensation Administration at
       (202) 606-2858 or email payleave@opm.gov.

   Revised January 15, 2002


            Annual Report/Calendar/COLA Settlement/Committees &
   Councils/Constitution/Directory of FEBs/Emergency Dismissal Plan/EEO
   Council/FEB Mission/FSCH/FWC/Hawaii-Pacific Area CFC/Home/Interesting
      Articles/Links/Meeting Minutes/Membership/News Bite/Officers &
                 Staff/Photographs/Training Opportunities
