http://www.sfahelp.ed.gov/Direct1.cfm

     Privacy and Other Notices
   ED Home

   Ombudsman Frequently Asked Questions

   Online Problem Assistance

   FFEL Loans

   Direct Loans

   Perkins Loans

   Student Loan Links

   Loan Consolidation

   Defaulted Loans

                                Direct Loans

     D
   irect and FFEL Stafford Loans are the Department's major form of
   self-help aid. Direct Stafford Loans are available through the William
   D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program and FFEL Stafford
   Loans are available through the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL)
   Program. The terms and conditions of a Direct Stafford or a FFEL
   Stafford are similar. The major differences between the two are the
   source of the loan funds, some aspects of the application process, and
   the available repayment plans.

   Under the Direct Loan Program, the funds for your loan are lent to you
   directly by the U.S. government. If your school does not participate in
   Direct Loans, the funds for your loan are lent to you from a bank,
   credit union, or other lender that participates in the FFEL Program.
   The Direct and FFEL programs also offer PLUS Loans for parents of
   dependent students and Consolidation Loans.

                              DIRECT LOAN FAQs

   [Image125.gif] I dropped out of school during the term. How do I get a
                         refund on my student loan?

         [Image125.gif] How do I get my loan out of default status?

      [Image125.gif] I make payments to my loan servicer, but they keep
     calling me and sending me late notices. How can I get them to stop?

   [Image125.gif] I can't afford to make a payment this month. What should
                                    I do?

                                  next FAQ

                                [divider.gif]

                        U.S. Department of Education
                           400 Maryland Avenue, SW
                            Washington, DC 20202
                               1-800-USA-LEARN
   via email: To report technical problems and to help us improve the Web
   site: webmaster@ombudsman.ed.gov
   See also our list of Toll-Free Information Phone Numbers

                 Page Last Modified November 02, 2000 (kjk)

                 You are visitor number 16887 to this page!

   Ombudsman Home

                 [ED Home]
