http://www.usdoj.gov/04foia/index.html

   c USDOJ Seal U.S. Department of Justice
       HOMEPAGE    |     CONTACT US    |     PRIVACY NOTICE    |     SITE
   MAP    |     SEARCH


                  FOIA

   blue bullet Making a FOIA Request
   blue bullet Reading Rooms
   blue bullet Reference Guide
   blue bullet Department Components
   blue bullet Principal FOIA Contacts
       at Federal Agencies
   blue bullet Other Federal Agencies'
       FOIA Web Sites
   blue bullet Annual FOIA Reports
   blue bullet Reference Materials
        About DOJ
        Publications & Documents
        Press Room
        Employment
        Doing Business with DOJ
        FOIA
        Grants
        Fugitives & Missing Persons
        Other Federal Sites


        Last Updated: 10/24/01

        Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
      gold bar with blue star

   Like all federal agencies, the Department of Justice is required under
   the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to disclose records requested in
   writing by any person. However, agencies may withhold information
   pursuant to nine exemptions and three exclusions contained in the
   statute. The FOIA applies only to federal agencies and does not create
   a right of access to records held by Congress, the courts, or by state
   or local government agencies. Each state has its own public access laws
   that should be consulted for access to state and local records.

   Each federal agency is responsible for meeting its FOIA
   responsibilities for its own records. A list of Principal FOIA Contacts
   At Federal Agencies is available from this site. Likewise, each
   Department of Justice component is responsible for processing FOIA
   requests for the records that it maintains. Consult the DOJ FOIA
   Reference Guide and the List of Individual DOJ Components and FOIA
   Contacts if you plan to make a FOIA request to the Department of
   Justice. Before making a FOIA request, you should first browse About
   DOJ, Press Room, Publications & Documents, and Reading Rooms, which
   contain information already available to the public. If you are not
   familiar with this Web site, please refer to How to Use This Home Page
   for more specific guidance.
