http://matheson.house.gov/display2.cfm?id=425&type=News

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |


                                  Biography
                          Congressman Jim Matheson


     Jim Matheson was sworn in as a member of Congress on January 3,
     2001, representing Utahs second congressional district in the U.S.
     House of Representatives.  The second district is located within
     Salt Lake County and includes Utahs capital, Salt Lake City.


     A member of the House Transportation Committee, Matheson sits on the
     Subcommittee on Highways and Transit and the Subcommittee on
     Aviation.  He is also a member of the House Budget Committee.  As a
     member of the House Science Committee, Matheson serves on the Energy
     subcommittee and the Subcommittee on Environment, Technology and
     Standards.


     Mathesons colleagues have selected him to serve as the liaison with
     Republicans in the Freshman class.


     During his tenure, Matheson has championed bipartisanship, looking
     to reach across the aisle in order to find common sense solutions to
     issues.  The Deseret News said, Matheson isnt the first member from
     the 2^nd District to be more independent than their parties may
     like.


     Congressman Matheson, 41, is a sixth-generation Utahn who was born
     and reared in Salt Lake City.   Jim, his sister and his two brothers
     all attended Salt Lake City public schools.  He received his B.A. in
     Government from Harvard University and his MBA from UCLA.


     Before his election to Congress in November 2000, Jim worked in the
     energy industry for 13 years for several local companies. Starting
     his own companyThe Matheson Group--in 1998 gave him first-hand
     experience with the challenges and opportunities facing small
     businesses.  The Matheson Group worked with both the private and
     public sectors to improve the way businesses procure energy and to
     help local governments meet the challenges of a changing,
     deregulated energy sector.


     During college, Jim worked in Washington, DC as a congressional
     intern for the Speaker of the House where he learned the importance
     of bipartisanship and the value of creating a positive vision.
     After graduation he worked as an advocate for the Environmental
     Policy Institute where he helped reduce government waste in the area
     of synthetic fuel subsidies.


     Jim combines business know-how and environmental sensibility with a
     commitment to community service.  As a member of the Salt Lake
     Public Utilities Board for several years, he helped set policy for
     public water and sewer programs.  He also served as a board member
     of the Scott M. Matheson Leadership Forum, which helps make college
     more affordable for students who demonstrate leadership and a
     commitment to service by providing tuition grants.


     Jims wife Amy is a pediatrician.  They have a 3-year-old son, Will.



                       Send To Printer Email to Friend

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
