http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rd/nofas/index.html

   Your browser isn't running scripts. There are scripts on this page that
   perform mouse-over effects to emphasize the selection of text graphics
   from the navigation bar. The mouse-overs turn the graphics from navy
   blue to bright green. However, the page also contains text descriptions
   of these menu items.

   Skip navigation bars U S D A Rural Development Online Logo: Link to
   Home Page
   About us: link to information about our programs and services Link to
   business and cooperative program information Link to housing and
   community facilities program information Link to utility program
   information
   Link to information about community development and empowerment Link to
   field office locations Link to news and information Link to
   publications Link to regulations

    Funding Notices: Funds Available for 2001

   Rural Development announces the availability of money for many of its
   programs in the Federal Register, through a Notice of Funds
   Availability (NOFA). Each NOFA lists the application deadlines,
   eligibility requirements, and places where you can get more help in
   applying for program dollars.

   Note:  The notices listed here are PDF and Microsoft Word files. See
   our document accessibility page if you need help to use these.
   Depending on your modem and system, it may be a few minutes before
   large documents will be fully displayed by your browser.

   Notice Inviting Applications for Designation of Rural Empowerment Zones
   PDF | DOC   (Application deadline: October 1, 2001)

   Notice of Availability of Funds; Multi-Family Housing, Single Family
   Housing
   PDF | DOC

   Announcement of Funding To Develop Essential Community Facilities in
   Rural Communities for Eligible Public Entities, Nonprofit Corporations,
   and Tribal Governments With Extreme High Unemployment and Severe
   Economic Depression
   PDF | DOC

   NOFA for Section 502 Demonstration Program to Provide Single Family
   Housing Loans and Grants to North Carolina Elderly Families That Lost
   Their Housing Due to a Major Disaster
   PDF | DOC

   NOFA for Construction and Installation of Broadband Telecommunications
   in Rural America
   PDF | DOC   (Application deadline: September 30, 2001)

   NOFA for the Treasury Rate Loan Program
   PDF | DOC

   NOFA for the Weather Radio Transmitter Grant Program
   PDF | DOC


   Picture of rural community being developed. Scene shows construction of
   housing, new businesses, and expansion of the infrastructure.

   Search  |  Site Index  |  Accessibility Statement
   Send Questions/Comments  |  Contact Us About Web Accessibility
   Rural Development News and Information  |  RUS Press Room  |  USDA News
   Room

   Rural Development is within the U.S. Department of Agriculture and
   administers Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service,
   Rural Utilities Service, and Office of Community Development programs.
   U S D A Logo: Link to U S D A Home Page
