http://developers.ivv.nasa.gov/ltp_can/LTP_CANonline.html

   Concept Document
       This document presents a preliminary concept for a NASA Cooperative
       Agreement Notice (CAN) which may be offered during the late summer
       or early fall of 1998. Your comments on this CAN (please do not
       send questions about specific proposal ideas) are welcome and
       encouraged. Please send comments to:
       LTPCAN@rspac.ivv.nasa.gov

       [nasa.jpg]

       National Aeronautics and Space Administration


       A Preview Draft of a
       COOPERATIVE
       AGREEMENT NOTICE

       Leading Educators to Applications, Research and NASA-related
       Educational Resources in Science (LEARNERS)

       A potential Cooperative Agreement Notice from the
       NASA Education Office and
       Learning Technologies Project
       Leading Educators to Applications, Research and
       NASA-related Educational Resources in Science (LEARNERS)

                                CAN Overview

   This Cooperative Agreement Notice (CAN) solicits proposals for projects
   that will integrate the internet and other information technologies to
   direct the unique knowledge that flows from NASAs aeronautics, space
   and Earth system research into the K-12 classroom. NASA is seeking
   projects that will collectively represent all four NASA enterprises: 1)
   Aeronautics and Space Transportation Technology, 2) Human Exploration
   and Development of Space, 3) Earth Science Program, and 4) Office of
   Space Science. Single proposals may deliver content related to one.
   several or all of these NASA enterprises.

   NASA seeks proposals that will develop innovative ways to use current
   and emerging technologies to deliver NASA-related content to the
   classroom. Proposals may address the wide spectrum of educational
   activities: from projects promoting simple appreciation of NASA
   missions to projects that aim at a deeper understanding of NASAs
   scientific, technological and engineering frontiers. This CAN seeks
   projects that help teachers and students gain confidence that they can
   understand and contribute to these frontiers. Projects proposed to this
   solicitation must demonstrate that they will be used in the learning
   community during the duration of this program and that the
   effectiveness of these products on learning in the classroom will be
   assessed.

   Proposals for $50,000 to $500,000 of government funding per year for
   one to five years will be considered. Funds for the first year of
   project execution are available for awards under this CAN. NASAs
   ability to continue funding the cooperative agreements selected under
   this CAN and any future cooperative agreements for future years are
   contingent upon availability of appropriated funds in future fiscal
   years, satisfactory progress on the part of the awardees, and continued
   interest by NASA in activities proposed in subsequent years.

   Short, five-page "Pre-Proposals" are due by TBD. Review panels with
   diverse representation will evaluate the proposals. Based on this
   evaluation process, NASA will request a few proposers to submit a full
   proposal. Notification for full proposals is expected by TBD. Selection
   for the submission of a full proposal does not guarantee award but
   merely indicates that the proposal has passed the first round of
   proposal evaluation.

   Full proposals will be due TBD. Full proposals will undergo a second
   independent review process. Final selection is planned for TBD, but
   negotiation of complex cooperative agreements may take longer.

   Joint proposals that demonstrate effective partnerships or cooperative
   arrangements between academia, industry and government are encouraged,
   including proposals that involve small businesses owned and controlled
   by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, Historically
   Black Colleges and Universities, and minority institutions. For
   example, a CAN proposal team may include a collaboration between a
   local school, a community college, and a telecommunications firm.


   Leading Educators to Applications, Research and
       NASA-related Educational Resources in Science (LEARNERS)

                                      T
   able of Contents


   CAN Overview

   Table of Contents

   Technical Description

   1. Introduction

   2. CAN Description
   2.1 Mandatory project proposal requirements
       2.1.1 Innovative integration and application of current and
       emerging information technologies.
       2.1.2 Evaluation plan for measuring effectiveness on learning in
       the classroom.
       2.1.3 Identification and adherence to National Research Councils
       National Science Education Standards.
       2.1.4 Presentation of NASA-related content.
       2.2 Additional project characteristics
       2.2.1 Pre-service and/or In-service teacher-training components.
       2.2.2 Partnerships and collaborations
       2.2.3 Participation by small, disadvantaged business and minority
       educational institutions
       2.2.4 Broad delivery of services
       2.2.5 Resource sharing.
       2.3 Funding

   3-... Other aspects of the LEARNERS CAN
   Leading Educators to Applications, Research and
       NASA-related Educational Resources in Science (LEARNERS)

                            Technical Description

                               1. Introduction

   The intent of this Cooperative Agreement Notice (CAN) is to stimulate
   the nation's education community with usable internet-based educational
   products highlighting NASA-related content. These educational products
   may include curriculum development, technology development or the
   integration of technology and content. Collectively, the projects
   funded by this CAN will represent all four NASA strategic enterprises:

   - Aeronautics and Space Transportation Technology

   (http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/aero/)

   - Human Exploration and Development of Space

   (http://www.osf.hq.nasa.gov/heds/)

   - Earth Science Program

   (http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/mtpe/)

   - Space Science

   (http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/oss/osshome.htm)

   Descriptions of each of these enterprises can be found at the addresses
   listed above. These descriptions are not intended to be all
   encompassing and proposers may choose to highlight NASA-related content
   which is not specifically mentioned in these descriptions. Proposals
   may address content from one or any combination the NASA enterprises.

   This CAN is part of the Learning Technologies Project (LTP) which is
   funded through the Educational Technology Division of NASAs Education
   Program and through NASAs High Performance Computing and Communications
   (HPCC) Office. Descriptions of each of these programs can be found at
   the following addresses:

   - NASAs Education Program

   (http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/codef/education/ed-prog.html)

   - Learning Technologies Project

   (http://learn.ivv.nasa.gov/)

   - High Performance Computing and Communications

   (http://www.aero.hq.nasa.gov/hpcc/)


   2. CAN Description

   The goal of this CAN is are to support innovative integration of
   existing and emerging information technologies to further the following
   objectives of NASA's Learning Technologies Project:

   - Stimulate the educational community with NASA-related content

   - Develop internet based curriculum that facilitate the educational
   process.

   - Develop internet based technologies that facilitate the educational
   process.

   - Utilize emerging information technologies.

   - Create products that can be used in the formal classroom within 3 -5
   years.

   - Produce products that can be affordably replicated and easily
   disseminated.

   - Empower the American educator in the formal classroom setting.

   - Measure the effectiveness of these products on learning in the
   classroom.

   NASA seeks proposals that address the wide spectrum of educational
   activities: from projects promoting simple appreciation of NASA
   missions to projects that aim at a deeper understanding of NASAs
   scientific, technological and engineering frontiers. This CAN seeks
   projects that help teachers and students gain confidence that they can
   understand and contribute to these frontiers. Successful proposals will
   Projects proposed to this solicitation must demonstrate that they the
   products developed will be used in the learning community during the
   duration of this program and that the effectiveness of these products
   on learning in the classroom will be assessed.


   2.1 Mandatory project proposal requirements

   2.1.1 Innovative integration and application of current and emerging
   information technologies.

   Successful proposals must integrate the internet with a variety of
   information technologies and allow the flexibility to incorporate
   technologies which will emerge throughout the life of the LEARNERS
   program. Use of the internet to merely deliver lessons to remote
   locations will not be considered innovative. An "online book" is
   likewise not fundable under this CAN. This CAN does solicit activities
   that integrate technologies to present NASA-related content to teachers
   so that they have the confidence to encourage them to open their
   classrooms to exploration and scientific inquiry.

   Recognizing that learning science must be an active process, NASA seeks
   projects which will explore innovative uses of information technologies
   to encourage and motivate active learning. This can take the form of
   innovations for collaborative learning, discovery-based learning,
   inquiry-based learning, problem-based learning or other new methods of
   science learning.


   2.1.2 Evaluation plan for measuring effectiveness on learning in the
   classroom.

   Proposers must include a plan to measure the effectiveness of their
   products on learning in the classroom. Proposals will not be considered
   if the project merely presents a product without a plan to measure its
   effectiveness on learning in the classroom. Evaluation plans may
   include, but are not limited to, pre- and post-testing, parallel
   classes with and without proposed products, in-depth student
   interviews, measures of problem-solving skills, etc. Some precautions
   must be taken to remove confounding effects of individual teachers
   and/or biased student populations.


   2.1.3 Identification and adherence to National Research Councils
   National Science Education Standards.

   To facilitate systemic change in our nations classrooms, proposals must
   target specific, age-appropriate standards as set forth in the National
   Research Councils National Science Education Standards which can be
   found online at :

   http://www.nap.edu/readingroom/books/intronses/

   The proposer must specify which standards are to be addressed, the age
   group to be addressed, and how the project will meet the specified
   standar using information technologies and NASA-related content.


   2.1.4 Presentation of NASA-related content.

   In addition to promoting scientific literacy for all Americans, NASA
   desires to influence the career decisions of today's students and
   tomorrow's citizens. NASA would like to encourage a wider variety of
   students, including minorities and disabled individuals, to explore
   careers in science and engineering. Of equal importance is to spark
   student interest in the many technical support jobs that exist in
   carrying out NASA's missions. One of the objectives of this CAN is to
   promote the infusion of information generated through NASA's scientific
   and engineering endeavors into educational materials through the use of
   information technologies. Successful proposals must identify the types
   of NASA-related content they plan to use. As much specificity as
   possible on this point is encouraged.

   Though a major objective of this CAN is to promote the use of knowledge
   gained from NASA-unique research and engineering, proposals must
   recognize that such knowledge does not stand alone but is part of a
   rich science-technology-engineering web of knowledge. Proposals should
   integrate NASA-related content with a broader view of science and/or
   engineering.


   2.2 Additional project characteristics

   Besides meeting the mandatory requirements of this CAN as described
   above, project proposals may include any or all of the characteristics
   described below.


   2.2.1 Pre-service and/or In-service teacher-training components.

   NASA encourages proposals which target Pre-service and or In-service
   teacher training, with an eye toward contributing to the development of
   the new generation of technology-empowered, science-literate educators.

   2.2.2 Partnerships and collaborations

   Joint proposals are encouraged that demonstrate effective partnerships
   or cooperative arrangements between academia, industry and government,
   including proposals that involve small businesses owned and controlled
   by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, Historically
   Black Colleges and Universities, and minority institutions. For
   example, a CAN proposal team may include a collaboration between a
   local school, a community college, and a telecommunications firm.


   2.2.3 Participation by small, disadvantaged business and minority
   educational institutions

   Participation in the CAN by small, disadvantaged, or woman-owned
   businesses, or other minority institutions, either as a principal
   investigator or as part of a proposal team, is desirable and
   encouraged.


   2.2.4 Broad delivery of services

   Proposals are encouraged that include students in disadvantaged,
   underserved, or remote settings, or schools with predominant enrollment
   of underrepresented minorities or students with disabilities.


   2.2.5 Resource sharing.

   The quality and extent of proposed resource sharing will be included in
   the evaluation process. Details of resource sharing are contained below
   in Section 6 - Resource Sharing, and in OMB Circular A-110, section 23
   which is reproduced in Appendix TBD.


   2.3 Funding

   Funds are available for awards under this CAN. NASAs ability to
   continue funding the cooperative agreements selected under this CAN and
   any future cooperative agreements beyond the first year are contingent
   upon availability of appropriated funds in future fiscal years.
   Proposals from $50,000 to $500,000 of government funding per year for
   one to five years will be considered for award. However, to reiterate,
   fFunding of selected proposals beyond the first year is contingent upon
   availability of appropriated funds in future fiscal years, satisfactory
   progress on the part of the awardees, and continued interest by NASA in
   activities proposed in subsequent years, and. availability of
   appropriated funds in future fiscal years


   3-... Other aspects of the LEARNERS CAN

   Other aspects of this can (e.g. Intellectual Property Rights, Resource
   Sharing, Contractual Mechanisms, etc. will be similar to a previous LTP
   CAN, the "Education, Training and Lifelong Learning in Aeronautics"
   which can be found at:

   http://quest.arc.nasa.gov/can/intro.html
