http://pe.usps.gov/postalex.htm

   United States Postal Service

                    Postal Explorer CD-ROM Now Available!

   Postal Explorer

   NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME:
   A wealth of postal information
   At your fingertips ... just a few clicks away.
   The Postal Service is making available to its customers an easy-to-use
   electronic information tool on one CD-ROM called Postal Explorer. It
   includes publications, rate calculators, and more. Postal Explorer's
   powerful search features enable you to explore new opportunities to
   make more efficient use of the mail.

   Postal Explorer contains:

     * Domestic Mail Manual (DMM)
     * International Mail Manual (IMM)
     * Quick Service Guides
     * Domestic Rate Calculator
     * International Rate Calculator
     * Postal Zone Charts
     * Notice 123, Ratefold
     * Customer Support Rulings
     * Postage Statements
     * Pub. 25, Designing Letter and Reply Mail
     * Pub. 28, Postal Addressing Standards
     * Pub. 49, Getting Started in Standard Mail
     * Pub. 63, Designing Flat Mail
     * Pub. 417, Nonprofit Standard Mail Eligibility
     * Business Guide To Advertising With Direct Mail
     * Postal Explorer Tour Guide

   Order Now
   The Postal Explorer CD-ROM is only $20. For additional information,
   call 1 (800) 654-1905.

   Order Form: To order with a major credit card, link to Postal Explorer
   Order Form in PDF format, or link to the HTML version.
   Print the form you select, complete the form and mail or fax the form
   to the address or fax number provided.
   Note: You must have Adobe Acrobat Reader version 3.0 or greater to read
   this form. If you have problems printing the PDF form at 300 dots per
   inch (dpi), reset your print quality to 150 dpi or use the HTML version
   of the form.
   Acrobat - download and install the FREE Adobe Acrobat Reader. Acrobat -
       tips on how to use the Acrobat Reader.

   Postal Explorer is more than a reference guide. It's a mailer's toolbox
   that gives you the tools to design a mailing program that best suits
   your needs. It's almost like having a full shelf of these publications
   - only better. Better because by entering in a word or phrase, you can
   instantly find all references to it - either in a single publication or
   across all the publications.

   Postal Explorer lets you calculate and print postage rates for both
   domestic and international mail. All you do is fill in a few on-screen
   blanks, and Postal Explorer does the rest. For ease of use, Postal
   Explorer comes with both a multi-media tutorial and a separate User's
   Guide.

   This exciting new information tool is part of the Postal Service's
   continuing effort to make using the mail system easier and simpler for
   all customers. It was developed in direct response to what you have
   told us, both informally and through customer surveys, about your
   postal information needs. It affords an unprecedented opportunity for
   mailers to draw on the same information used by postal employees - -
   with ease, speed, and convenience.

   System Requirements
   Operating System:
   Windows 95/98 or NT
   Computer: 386/25mhz
   Hard Disk Space: 30MB (Publications and Tour Guide on CD-ROM), 330MB
   (all files copied to hard drive)
   RAM: 8MB CD-ROM: 2x
   Display: VGA (640x480) resolution with 256 colors.
   Sound: Sound Blaster Compatible (Tour Guide only)

   Postal Explorer Tour Guide
   The Tour Guide is an innovative full motion sound and video on-screen
   tutorial. The tour guide explains how to most effectively use the
   software on the Postal Explorer CD-ROM. It includes modules on the
   organization and numbering system of the Domestic Mail Manual, how to
   use Adobe Acrobat Reader Software (which is used to display, search,
   and print publications on Postal Explorer), and how to use the domestic
   rate calculator.

   Domestic Mail Manual (DMM)
   The Domestic Mail Manual contains the basic USPS standards for domestic
   mail services; a description of and requirements for each mail class,
   special services, and ancillary services and conditions governing their
   use and the standards for rate eligibility and mail preparation.

   International Mail Manual (IMM)
   The International Mail Manual contains postage rates and classification
   and regulations for international mail.

   Quick Service Guides
   Quick Service Guides provide a 2-page overview of the standards for a
   particular postal rate, service, or preparation method. The first side
   typically summarizes prices, eligibility, and other standards. The
   second side typically summarizes mail preparation standards and/or
   overviews of mailpiece design and other information. For ease-of-use,
   the Quick Service Guides are linked to further details in the Domestic
   Mail Manual.

   Domestic Rate Calculator
   The Domestic Rate Calculator lets you calculate and print postage rates
   for domestic mail. All you do is fill in a few on-screen blanks, and
   Postal Explorer does the rest.

   International Rate Calculator
   The International Rate Calculator lets you calculate and print postage
   rates for international mail. All you do is fill in a few on-screen
   blanks, and Postal Explorer does the rest.

   Postal Zone Charts
   Postal Zone Charts display and print postal zone information specific
   to the first 3-digits of a ZIP Code.

   Notice 123, Ratefold
   The Ratefold is a 10-panel foldout that contains all domestic rates and
   fees in a concise and accessible manner. This is a convenient reference
   tool when you are not at a computer.

   Customer Support Rulings
   Customer Support Rulings are detailed interpretations and explanations
   of standards in the Domestic Mail Manual.

   Postage Statements
   Postage Statements contains a collection of postage statements and
   other forms used for bulk mailing.

   Publication 25, Designing Letter and Reply Mail
   Designing Letter Mail shows how to design letter-size business mail for
   improved service and postage savings. It includes specifications for
   graphic artists, printers, envelope manufacturers, form designers, and
   computer programmers.

   Publication 28, Postal Addressing Standards
   Postal Addressing Standards describes standardized address formats for
   mail. Developed by the Postal Service and the mailing industry,
   standardized addresses enhance mail processing and delivery while
   reducing undeliverable-as-addressed mail. This publication includes
   standard abbreviations for streets, counties, highways, and business
   terms. It also includes Address Information Systems products and
   services.

   Publication 49, Getting Started with Standard Mail This publication
   shows how to prepare bulk Standard Mail, obtain a permit, and pay for
   the annual bulk mailing fee. This publication includes easy-to-follow
   instructions for preparing your Standard Mail mailings. It also
   explains permit imprint formats and postage statement procedures.

   Publication 63, Designing Flat Mail
   Designing Flat Mail shows how to design flat-size mail to qualify for
   postage discounts. It includes guidelines for designing flat-size mail
   to meet the physical characteristics and address standards of Postal
   Service flat sorting machines.

   Publication 417, Nonprofit Standard Mail Eligibility
   Nonprofit Standard Mail Eligibility discusses eligibility,
   authorization, and mailing rules for the Nonprofit Standard Mail rates.
   It explains the categories or organizations that are eligible for the
   rates, how to request authorization, and how to determine whether a
   mailing meets the general standards for the rates. The publication also
   contains case studies and questions and answers about applying the
   content-based restrictions.

   The Business Guide to Advertising With Direct Mail
   The Business Guide to Advertising With Direct Mail offers valuable tips
   and step-by-step instructions on what you need to know to develop an
   effective direct mail campaign.
