http://www.customersurvey.gov/access.htm

      NPR Logo "CustomerService.Gov" Putting the American People First
      Customer-Focused Government
      More Accessible Government
      Customer Satisfaction Initiative
      Providing Quality Customer Service

                           Solid red line divider

                        A More Accessible Government

   It is crucial for citizens to have direct access to their government.
   To find out how best to accomplish this, Federal agencies asked
   Americans for ideas about how to make it easier to do business with us.
   The Federal government heard that direct access with easy-to-obtain
   information and services were essential. What did we do? The Blue Pages
   in telephone books were rewritten to list services under topic, instead
   of by agency. Federal agencies also began focusing on communicating in
   plain language. Additionally, partnerships, reinvention labs, and
   performance-based organizations were created to improve effectiveness.
   Along with technology, these initiatives have improved access to the
   government

   Improved Electronic Access

   The most dramatic change in Federal culture comes from new information
   technology. In 1993, there were 50 sites on the World Wide Web. Today,
   there are more than 20,000 government web sites. Americans will
   increasingly be online, not in line, to obtain information and complete
   transactions. To ensure people with disabilities have access to Federal
   information online, Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act in 1998.
   The amendment, Section 508, requires that the Federal government's
   electronic and information technology be disability-friendly.

   Web sites are great tools for providing quality customer service, but
   only if customers can find what they are looking for. Firstgov.gov
   created an online supermarket for Federal government information. It is
   a gateway for more than 27 million pages and searches half a billion
   pages in less than a second. The site provides government information
   by category and service rather than just by agency. There are also
   several government one-stop sites devoted to a wide variety of subjects
   such as seniors, workers, students, businesses, and those with
   disabilities.

   Improved In-Person Access

   Many Americans do not have easy access to personal computers and the
   Internet. To combat this, Federal agencies are partnering with state
   and local agencies to create Hassle-Free Communities, so the
   most-wanted government services are available for all Americans. For
   example, local one-stop-shops were created to help small or developing
   businesses with Social Security requirements; local, state, and Federal
   tax issues; business licenses; and start-up loans. "hassle-free
   mobiles" take government services --such as Medicare -- directly to
   citizens. Kiosks, part of the Hassle-Free Communities initiative,
   provide more than 150 Federal, state, county and city government
   services in a user-friendly, touch-screen format. Kiosks will be placed
   in shopping malls, grocery stores and at public transit centers around
   the country.

   The U.S. General Store in Atlanta, Georgia is another example of
   one-stop shopping for all government services and information. Customer
   service representatives from 24 agencies staff the site. Customers can
   obtain information in person, by telephone, or through its web site.

   To learn more about what Federal agencies have done to become more
   accessible, read some of the government's customer-focused success
   stories.



                          Site Index          Home

                           Solid red line divider

   Federal Consulting Group Logo

   BOBBY v3.2 APPROVED Logo

                                 American Customer Satisfaction Index Logo
