http://www.tnwb.uscourts.gov/Calendar/CalIntro.htm


   bar_thin.gif (828 bytes)

                                                United States Bankruptcy Court
                                                 Western District of Tennessee



   Home
   Court Sites and Info
   Chambers
   Calendar
   Meeting of Creditors
   Opinions
   Forms
   Local Rules
   Filing Fees
   Case Closures &
        Conversions
   Mailing Addresses
   Electronic Access
        VCIS/PACER
   Drop Boxes
   Filing Statistics
   Job Opportunities
   FAQ
   Feedback
   Related Links
   Electronic Noticing
   Announcements
   Updated 9/17/2001
   bar_thin.gif (828 bytes)

                            Go To Court Calendar

   The internet calendar is provided as a courtesy service to participants
   in proceedings in order to enhance their ability to plan and schedule.
   Although every effort is made to assure the accuracy of this service,
   one should always refer to the last written setting information from
   the Clerk's office when preparing for court. Several circumstances
   might cause erroneous information to be displayed. Searches might be
   performed incorrectly, dates entered incorrectly or party name(s)/case
   numbers may selected inaccurately. Always use the most recent hearing
   date and time provided in writing by the Clerk's office to determine
   when a particular matter is set.

   If you feel the information displayed may not be accurate, contact the
   courtroom deputy for the judge presiding over the case. Their telephone
   numbers are:

   Chief Judge David S. Kennedy Courtroom deputy (901)328-3572
   Judge William Houston Brown Courtroom deputy  (901)328-3573
   Judge Jennie D. Latta Courtroom deputy        (901)328-3571
   Judge G. Harvey Boswell Courtroom deputy      (731)421-9314

                            Go To Court Calendar

   Please let us know if you have any suggestions which may improve this
   service. Direct any comments or suggestions to:

                       webmaster_tnwb@ck6.uscourts.gov

     Copyright © United States Bankruptcy Court, Western District of TN
                        1999-2001 All Rights reserved
   Send e-mail to webmaster_tnwb@tnwb.uscourts.gov with questions or
   comments about this web site.
