http://beacon-archives.jpl.nasa.gov/collection.html

      [USEMAP:collections_banner.gif]
      The JPL Archives contains collections that cover the range of
      Laboratory activities. Please consult the list of processed accessions
      to see which missions and topics are covered.

      BEACON-Archives, the searchable on-line catalog, contains bibliographic
      information about processed collections that are available for research
      use. Records are inventoried to the document or file folder level, and
      many folder listings, available through the catalog in PDF format, can
      be viewed and searched using Acrobat Reader software. Some Archives
      holdings, including the History Collection, are currently indexed only
      in hard copy format, but will soon be added to the catalog.
      [audiovis_subhead.gif]
      A collection of more than 300,000 photographs documents JPL's planetary
      missions and research activities from 1936 to the present. The Archives
      also maintains collections in motion picture film, videotape, and
      Compact Disk--Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) formats, primarily covering
      planetary missions.
      [history_subhead.gif]
      This collection was assembled in the 1970s and contains materials
      pertaining to the development of the Laboratory from 1936 through 1976.
      Within this collection are records of Army Ordnance projects such as
      Corporal and Sergeant; NASA programs including Ranger, Surveyor, and
      Mariner; and other JPL activities. The collection is indexed by author,
      subject and date, A list of subject headings is also available.
      [microfilm_subhead.gif]
      The Archives microfilm collection includes more than 1000 reels of film
      and covers:
   Administrative Reports    Ranger Missions
   Corporal Missile          Sergeant Missile
   Fluorine Test Cell        Surveyor Missions
   Hydrobomb Data            Technical Reports
   Juno Program              Vega Project
   Jupiter Project           Viking Missions
   Liquid Propulsion Section Wind Tunnels
   Mariner Missions

      There are also collections of records identified by individual names:

   J.D. Burke           J. James
   C.I. Cummings        J. Koukol
   W.E. "Gene" Giberson W.H. Pickering
   F.E. Goddard         B.O. Sparks
      [oralhist_subhead.gif]
      In addition to a documentary history of JPL, the Archives has developed
      an oral history program. Through the oral history program, unique
      personal experiences that may go unrecorded in written documentation
      are captured on audiotape and later transcribed and made available for
      research use. Both current and former JPL employees thus have an
      opportunity to offer significant information about their roles at JPL
      --- and contribute to the overall understanding of the Laboratory's
      growth and development.

      See the list of interviewees. Transcripts - hard copy or electronic
      files -- are available. Information about oral history interviews will
      soon be available through the on-line catalog.
      [pubsmisc_subhead.gif]
      The Archives preserves JPL publications, brochures, newsletters,
      clippings, and a small collection of NASA publications. See the list of
      Publications and Miscellaneous Collections.

                                    [rule.gif]
        Archives Access | Archives Services | Archives Collections | Beacon
                                     Archives
                  Historical Photos | Records Management | Links
