http://chems.alaska.gov/ems_data_collection.htm


   Text Links List || Health Social Services >  Public Health >  Community
                      Health Emergency Medical Services
                                      .


 Juneau Office
410 Willoughby
   Room 109
  Box 110616
Juneau, Alaska
   99811-0616
(907) 465-3027
 465-4101 FAX

                                           logo graphic
                          Community Health and Emergency Medical Services

                                                                                        Anchorage Office
                                                                                        Anchorage, Alaska
                                                                                              99501
                                                                                         (907) 278-3456




   Prehospital EMS Data Collection in Alaska
        Martha Moore, Project Director
       Email   Telephone: (907) 465-3027



                                             Search CHEMS

                                         Program Descriptions

   Site Feedback Form

   EMS Contacts

   EMS Downloads

   EMS for Children

   Training Schedule

   Certification Database

   EMS Links

   Site Menu

   CHEMS Home


                  Prehospital EMS Data Collection in Alaska

                           A Plan for Improvement

   Revised 12/17/2001

   The Need for Statewide Data Collection:

   The reasons for statewide data collection are many and compelling. It
   will give us an opportunity to:
     * advocate more effectively for funding;
     * modify training programs to meet the needs of the EMS system;
     * identify and anticipate trends in patient care so the emergency
       medical services system can grow in a resource efficient manner;
     * allow research and introspection that will improve emergency
       patient care and focus injury prevention activities;
     * facilitate comparison of data with other systems.

   All of these benefits exist at the local, regional and state levels. In
   addition, most of the newer software has very well developed billing
   capabilities which can significantly enhance the revenue collection
   necessary to sustain many services.

   So, how do we move forward towards a statewide system of electronic EMS
   data collection? First, we accept that EMS agencies throughout Alaska
   have different needs, resources and sophistication related to record
   keeping and computerization. We need to find ways that we can collect
   data in a minimally intrusive manner while providing reports which make
   services want to participate in the program.

   Activities which will be undertaken by the Section of Community Health
   and EMS include:
     * Enhancing the model State EMS Prehospital Run Report Form (view in
       Adobe Acrobat Format);
     * Developing and/or adopting a standardized record format for
       accepting electronic data (based on the NHTSA Data Set);
     * Making the input data format available to EMS agencies and software
       vendors;
     * Developing computer database capabilities to accept electronic data
       from patient care reports sent by participating services via modem
       (dialup and internet);
     * Finding ways to help fund some start up costs for electronic record
       keeping.
     * Develop the capability to provide services involved in the
       statewide data collection program with timely and meaningful
       reports.

   picture, EMS Information Systems Workshop - January, 2000 One
   limitation of this proposed system for collecting electronic data (and
   there are probably others) is that it does not allow emergency medical
   services with paper based computer records to contribute patient care
   data on each run. We will still send these services the EMS ambulance
   service survey. However, it is unlikely that we will ever have the
   staff necessary to manually enter these records directly.

   There are several models of data collection which can meet local,
   regional and state needs for data. They include:
     * Data entry over the internet to a central server for low volume
       services;
     * Entry of paper based information into a computer for uploading to
       the State EMS System Database; and
     * Entry of data into a pen based system for direct uploading to the
       State EMS System Database.

   Each method of data entry needs to be accommodated in a statewide
   system and must be able to track a patient through multiple
   transporting agencies and, perhaps, across regional and state
   boundaries.  The plan for developing the system is outlined below.

   The Partners:

   We hope to benefit from the active participation of many agencies an
   individuals in the development and implementation of this project,
   including:
     * Local EMS agencies.
     * Regional EMS Offices.
     * Alaska Fire Service Training.
     * EMS Medical Directors.
     * Alaska Fire Chief's Association.

   Funding:

   The State EMS Program's budget is insufficient to fund activities other
   than staff time devoted to developing a statewide EMS data collection
   system.  To fund the hardware, software and contracts necessary to
   develop this system, staff of the Section of Community Health and EMS
   must seek additional funding through grants.

   The EMS Program gratefully acknowledges the funding received from the
   Alaska Highway Planning Agency (within the Alaska Department of Public
   Safety) and the National Emergency Medical Services for Children
   Program.  Both agencies funded CHEMS grant applications which allow
   some essential activities to occur to achieve the goals expressed
   below.

   The Plan:

   Phase I: Development of Central System Resources

   The first phase of the plan includes development of system resources
   within the Section of Community Health and EMS and includes the
   following tasks:
     * Developing and publishing an input data set format which contains
       the essential NHTSA data elements and can be used by software
       vendors as a template for adding export functions to software for
       use in Alaska.
     * Identifying and purchasing "system" software which can be used to
       accept data from a variety of sources (keyboard, internet files and
       remote client software) to provide data analysis and reports which
       can be used at a local, regional and state level.
     * Hosting a two day forum on data collection which showcases state of
       the art EMS data collection software and includes a one day NHTSA
       EMS Information Systems (EMSIS) workshop to provide information on
       implementation issues, including financial, political, legal and
       technological matters, and to assist us in refining our plan of
       action.
     * Funding technical experts to present information on data collection
       and reporting at EMS symposia.
     * Developing sustainable capabilities within CHEMS to accept
       datafiles and provide meaningful and timely reports to local EMS
       agencies.
     * Surveying communities to identify local data needs and
       capabilities.
     * Encouraging emergency medical services, hospitals and clinics to
       work together to ensure that prehospital run reports are made part
       of the patient's official hospital record.

   Phase II: Development of System Resources in Key Communities

   The second phase of the plan includes making the system operational
   (acquiring and analyzing data and providing reports to local
   communities) and "priming the pump" by:
     * Facilitating the development of "data translation" software which
       can take the data from data software widely used in Alaska (such as
       NFIRS) and convert it into a format useable by the statewide data
       reporting software used by CHEMS.  Click here to view an
       illustration of how the system is intended to fit together:
     * Encouraging larger EMS systems, which are already collecting
       electronic data, to submit the data on a periodic basis to the
       statewide EMS data collection program.
     * Funding software and hardware for use by key communities.
     * Working with the Alaska State Fire Marshal's Office to develop a
       plan for acquiring EMS data from NFIRS compatible software used by
       fire service based EMS agencies.
     * Demonstrating the usefulness of comprehensive and credible
       prehospital EMS data.

   Phase III: Full System Implementation and Continuation of Local
   Resource Development

   The last phase of the plan expands the number of services participating
   in statewide data collection and reporting activities.  Characteristics
   of this phase include:
     * An increased number of services submitting data and receiving
       reports.
     * Funding hardware and software for several more communities.
     * More widespread (local, regional and state) and targeted use of
       data acquired through the state EMS data collection system.
     * An increased number of requests for reports and data analyses from
       the statewide data collection system from EMS agencies, local and
       state governments, and the media.

   The Ultimate Goal:

   Ideally, every service will be submitting data on every response to a
   medical event, and the analysis of this population based data would be
   used to develop and support medical and program policy decisions, as
   well as funding issues.

   Summary:

   This web page has provided information on the ambitious plans of the
   Section of Community Health and EMS.  We believe a comprehensive data
   system is essential to ensure the medical appropriateness and financial
   well-being of the EMS System in Alaska.   Comments on this plan, both
   positive and negative, as well as suggestions for improving the plan
   are welcome and can be sent to either Martha Moore, the Alaska Trauma
   Registry Coordinator, or Matt Anderson, the EMS Unit Manager.

                                     TOP




                    Emergency Medical Services  Programs

              Click HERE For Information on 9/11/2001 Tragedies


   EMS What's New                          EMS Contacts
   EMS Funding, Billing, and Reimbursement Training Info and Schedules
   Letters of Solicitation                 Discussion Forum
   EMS Downloads                           EMS for Children
   Certification Database                  Comfort One-DNR
   Out of State Applicants                 EMS AED
   EMS List Servers                        Alaska Council on EMS
   EMS Medical Directors                   EMS Data Collection
   Trauma Registry                         Technical Assistance Team
   Alaska EMS Symposia                     Links to Great EMS Sites
   Alaska EMS Awards                       AK EMS Directory
   Subscribe to RESPONSE: EMS Alaska       EMS Photo Gallery
   RESPONSE Newsletters                    On-Line Surveys
   Injury Prevention                       Poison Control
   Continuing Medical Education Guidelines Search CH EMS Web Site
   Alaska Health and Social Services       Alaska Public Health
   EMS Week                                Physician Medical Director Resources
   EMS Instructors


                                     TOP

                  Primary Care & Health Promotion Programs


   Cardiovascular Health   Community Based Health Promotion
   AHELP Alaska Health Education Library Project Tobacco Prevention and
   Control
   Alaskan Exposure Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey
   Alaska Primary Care Office (PCO) Rural Hospital Flexibility Program
   Health Alert Network Telemedicine
   Contacts
   CHEMS home Search CH EMS

   Alaska Health Social Services Alaska Public Health
