http://mt.nrcs.usda.gov/pas/programs/ewpmt/ewpfire.pdf

   EWP EQIP Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) & Environmental Quality
   Incentives Program (EQIP) in Montana Avoiding the Disaster After the
   Disaster September 2001 EWP EQIP Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) &
   Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) in Montana Avoiding the
   Disaster After the Disaster Situation The summer of 2000 will be remem-
   bered for the fires that burned 884,666 acres across Montana. To put
   this into perspective, 884,666 acres is one percent of Montana's total
   acreage and larger than the state of Rhode Island. The fires ranged
   from small, easily extinguishable grass fires to uncontrollable
   wildfires. In total there were approximately 76 fires that burned 100
   or more acres. In Smoke rises from the Valley Complex fires east of
   fact, the largest fire in the state was the Darby on August 6,2000.
   Valley Complex fire that burned 212,030 acres in the Bitterroot Valley.
   These fires 2000 Presidential Declared Disaster Area flared up as early
   as May and were still smoldering into the fall. As a result of the
   Lincoln Glacier Toole Hill Blaine Daniels Sheridan damage caused by
   fires and a request from Flathead Liberty Phillips Valley Montana
   Governor Marc Racicot, 29 Mon- Pondera Roosevelt tana counties received
   Presidential Declared Choteau Sanders Lake Teton Richland McCone
   Disaster Area status from President Bill Mineral Clinton on August 30,
   2000. Lewis and Cascade Fergus Clark Garfield Dawson Judith Petroleum
   Missoula The drought that parched the state Basin Prairie Wibaux served
   to fuel the flames. The USDA Natural Granite Powell Meagher Musselshell
   Rosebud Ravalli Wheatland Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
   Broadwater Golden Deer- Valley Treasure Custer Fallon lodge SNOTEL
   network reported that on June 1, Jefferson Silver Sweet Yellowstone Bow
   Grass Gallatin 2000, statewide mountain snow water Stillwater Carter
   Powder Big Horn content was 56 percent of average and 40 River Park
   Madison Carbon percent of 1999 levels. Streamflow forecasts Beaverhead
   for the state were also below average, Presidential Declared Disaster
   Area ranging from 60 to 77 percent of average. Precipitation levels,
   measured at precipitation stations situated all across the state,
   ranged from 132 percent of average at 2000 Declared Areas of Dangerous
   Fire Hazard the Conrad Airport to 44 percent of average in Boulder and
   in Del Bonita. However, Lincoln Glacier Toole Tool e Toole Hill Blaine
   Daniels Sheridan overall moisture received in Montana was 82 Flathead
   Libertyy Phillips Valley percent of average and 81 percent of last year
   Pondera Roosevelt for precipitation recorded at 195 stations. All
   Choteau Sanders Lake Teton Richland McCone of these measurements were
   taken from Minerall al October 1999 to August 2000. These condi- Lewis
   and Cascade Fergus Clark Garfield Dawson Judith Petroleum tions caused
   U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Missoula Basin Prairie Wibaux Dan
   Glickman to approve a statewide Granite Powell Meagher Musselshell
   Rosebud disaster declaration for Montana on Septem- ater ate ate ate
   Broadwate Broadwate Golden Ravalli Deer- Treasure Valley Custer Fallon
   ber 18, 2000 because of drought. e lodge ge Sweet Yellowstone Grass The
   threat of additional wildfires was Stillwater S S Carter Powder Big
   Horn so great that, ultimately, Governor Racicot River Park Madison
   declared a state of disaster in 27 western Carbon Beaverhead Montana
   counties on August 24 in an effort to prevent further flare-ups. The
   executive Declared Areas of Dangerous Fire Hazard - 1 - order brought
   all public and private forestland and rangeland under a Level V fire
   restriction, which prohibited public access to these areas. Public
   lands affected by the closure amounted to 20 million acres. Montana's
   remaining 29 counties, generally the eastern portion of the state, were
   under Level III fire-danger restrictions. This Level III restriction
   allowed public use of the lands, but required control of campfires,
   smoking, off road vehicles, blasting, welding, and logging operations.
   The Presidential Declared Disaster Area due Above: Firefighters observe
   flames burning behind to fire and the disaster declaration due to
   drought the Sula ranger station. both provided a means to access
   additional federal Below left: Leafy spurge has invaded some areas
   funds. These funds were used to continue battling burned in the
   Bucksnort fire on Canyon Ferry Lake. fires or to provide some financial
   relief to those agriculturalists affected by drought. Below right: A
   storm in September of 2000 caused In September 2000, with bills still
   coming in, debris flows in the Bitterroot Valley. This flow moved the
   Forest Service estimated that the cost of across Highway 93 and stopped
   traffic. fighting Montana's wildfires to all agencies was approximately
   $22.5 million. The costs to Montana's business and landowners during
   the fire were estimated at $3 million per day in damages and lost
   revenues. The NRCS has been helping landowners to protect their
   property against further, crippling costs that may be incurred due to
   the erosion and weed invasion that follows such devastating fires. Fire
   Season 2000 in Montana Montana Fire Season 2000 Lincoln Glacier Toole
   Hill Blaine Daniels Sheridan Flathead Valley Liberty Phillips Pondera
   Roosevelt Choteau Sanders Lake Teton Richland McCone Mineral Lewis and
   Cascade Fergus Clark Garfield Dawson Missoula Judith Petroleum Basin
   Ryan Gulch G G Gu Prairie Wibaux Granite Powell Meagher Musselshell
   Rosebud Ravalli Boulder Complex ld mple mple mp mple ple mple Wheatland
   Golden Deer- Treasure ea ea Valley Custer Fallon lodgee Jefferson
   Silver Sweet Bow Grass Yellowstone Gallatin Average Bad Day Average B
   Av Stillwater Carter Powder Big Horn River Park Madison Carbon Fort
   Howes Complex FF C Beaverhead Fires over 300 acres Fire or complex - 2
   - Avoiding the Disaster After the Disaster Response Environmental
   Quality Incentives Program EQIP Priority Area 2000 The NRCS designated
   private lands in 22 Montana counties burned by the summer of 2000
   wildfires as a priority area under the Lincoln Glacier Toole Hill
   Blaine Daniels Sheridan Environmental Quality Incentives Program.
   Flathead As a result, landowners in these areas have Liberty Phillips
   Valley Pondera Roosevelt greater access to funding dollars. In Mon-
   Choteau Sanders Lake Teton Richland McCone tana, the NRCS has
   contracted with private Minerall al landowners to complete EQIP
   conservation Lewis and Cascade Fergus Clark Garfield Dawson projects
   valued at $402,377. The EQIP Missoula Judith Petroleum Basin priority
   area is called the "Montana Wildfire Prairie Wibaux Granite Powell
   Meagher Musselshell Rosebud Ravallii Burn Area." From these counties,
   25 Wheatland Golden Deer- Dee Treasure Valley Custer Fallon individuals
   applied for EQIP monies and 24 Jefferson Silver Sweet Grass Yellowstone
   applications were approved. This funding Gallatin Stillwater Carter
   Powder went to landowners in 6 counties in the Big Horn River Park
   Madison Montana Wildfire Burn Area. Carbon Beaverhead Nearly one-fourth
   of the contracted Fires of 300 or More Acres funds were used for
   deferred grazing pur- EQIP Priority Area poses. Fire damage in central
   and eastern EQIP Funded Counties Montana decimated forage and disturbed
   grazing systems. To combat this problem, EQIP helped to compensate
   landowners for the cost of leasing pasture and shipping cattle to
   pasture in return for a 2-year recovery period for damaged range. A
   payment of $5 per acre per year for 2 years totaled $145,095 for 18,460
   acres contracted for deferred grazing. In addition to deferred grazing,
   funds for stock tanks, pipeline, and fencing were important components
   of the support system provided by EQIP. In the forested areas of
   western Montana conservation practices addressed erosion rather than
   livestock. Directional tree felling, critical area plantings, and check
   dams were all used to stop soil from moving down the slopes of the
   Rocky Mountains. Emergency Watershed Protection In the fall and spring
   following the fires, private landowners completed conservation
   projects, with NRCS assistance, through the Emergency Water- shed
   Protection (EWP) program. The EWP program is designed to help prevent
   damage to watersheds or to protect life and property in emergency
   situations after a natural disaster. In light of this, the projects
   implemented on burned lands were erosion control measures intended to
   stop or re-direct debris flows in order to protect channels, roads,
   structures, ponds, and slopes. When safe to enter burned areas, NRCS
   employees began the EWP process by evaluating the extent of damage done
   to watersheds. Damage assessments were Neal Svendsen, NRCS resource
   soil completed on at least 30 different scientist, surveys damage on
   slopes of fires and fire complexes in the Lower East Fork, Valley
   Complex. Montana. Not only was the property owner's land evaluated, but
   the situation upstream was also taken into consideration since the
   condition of the land upstream could impact the control measures needed
   downstream in the case of heavy erosion or sedi- mentation throughout
   the entire watershed. The NRCS provided financial assistance covering
   up to 75 percent of construction costs on eligible conservation
   projects. Local sponsors pro- vided the other 25 percent. In Montana,
   the total EWP expenditures were Geoff Cerrelli, NRCS civil engineer,
   tests approximately $630,000. the hydrophobicity of soil affected by
   fire. - 3 - Emergency Watershed Protection & Environmental Quality
   Incentives Program in Montana Emergency Watershed Protection Projects
   Left: NRCS engineers suggested appropriate erosion control practices
   for each situation. Here straw wattles were used to stabilize slopes.
   Right: A concrete barrier and rock- lined channel, funded through EWP,
   were used to protect the Roberts' home on Dickson Creek. In total, EWP
   funds were used to build 729 feet of concrete barriers. Bitterroot
   Valley Fires Four major fire complexes burned in the Emergency
   Watershed Bitterroot Valley. In total, these fires black- Protection
   Costs vs. Cost Stevensville ened 372,597 acres for an estimated cost of
   control of $57,298,421 according to the State of Potential Damages 2000
   Emergency Coordination Center's September Hamilton $2,500,000
   $2,400,000 11, 2000 situation report. Several of these fires flared up
   July 31, 2000 when a thunder- $2,000,000 storm moved through the area.
   Lightning Darby strikes ignited the dry forest, creating uncon-
   $1,500,000 trollable wildfires. Sula After the fires, the NRCS stepped
   in to offer financial and technical assistance in an $1,000,000 effort
   to help landowners protect their homes $499,171 and property from the
   effects of a barren $500,000 Ravalli County Fires 2000 watershed.
   Through the EWP program, property owners in the Bitterroot Valley 0 EWP
   Costs Potential Damages received $499,171 of cost-share funds for 98
   contracts to implement conservation practices that would help to
   prevent erosion and mudslides that could threaten homes, roads, and
   other property. The largest conservation effort in the Bitterroot
   Valley was conducted in the final week of October 2000. Approximately
   6,000 acres of severely burned private forest land was aerial seeded
   with 64,000 pounds of native slender wheatgrass. The purpose of the
   seeding was to control erosion and provide weed competition. In
   addition to the NRCS and other state and federal agencies, local groups
   gathered to help their neighbors recover. One such organization that
   brought together community members was the Bitterroot Interagency/Com-
   munity Recovery Team (BIRT). The goals of BIRT are to reduce flood
   damage potential and possible loss of life and to provide the
   opportunity for This hillside was aerial seeded in the community
   members to assist in fire recovery and healing processes through fall
   of 2000 and the grasses now protect rehabilitation efforts. The BIRT
   Team's members are the Bitterroot Resource against erosion and weed
   invasion. Conservation & Development, NRCS, Bitterroot Conservation
   District, and the Forest Service. Many civic groups, students from area
   BIRT volunteers schools, and local businesses made donations of time
   and construct a money. straw check dam, spread BIRT began working in
   conjunction with volunteers straw mulch, and the Bitterroot National
   Forest Service on September 23, and use erosion 2000. From September to
   November, 1,319 volunteers mats to protect donated 12,386 hours of work
   in order to help protect 64 this drainage. homes and 273 acres. Some of
   the work done by BIRT included seeding, mulching, constructing straw
   barriers, log barriers, sandbag barriers, and straw check dams, using
   erosion mats and straw waddles, and digging trenches. - 4 - Avoiding
   the Disaster After the Disaster Left: The helicopter used to seed areas
   of the Bucksnort fire lifts the seed hopper after refueling. Right:
   Native slender and thickspike wheatgrass seeded in severely burned
   areas in February of 2001, using EWP funds, has sprouted. Bucksnort
   Fire The Cave Gulch and Bucksnort fires, which made up the Canyon Ferry
   Complex, began burning on July 23, 2000. These York two fires burned
   approximately 43,947 acres near Canyon Ferry Cave Gulch Lake. The fires
   destroyed 50 structures of which six were sum- Fire mer cabins, two
   were permanent homes, and the others were various sheds and
   outbuildings. The State Emergency Coordina- Bucksnort tion Center
   estimated the cost of containment to be near Helena East Helena
   $12,043,000. Fire The Bucksnort fire alone burned about 15,000 acres,
   of which over 10,000 acres were privately owned. NRCS specialists began
   working to map fire intensity in late July, determining that Winston
   approximately one-third of the 10,000 acres were a Fire Intensity Level
   I (high intensity). Some indications of Level I fire intensity are that
   the duff is consumed, no shrub stumps or small fuels remain, and the
   soil is medium to highly hydrophobic with a uniformly gray or white ash
   surface layer. The effects of an Intensity Level I fire are that
   revegetation is set back 5-10 years and the soil erosion potential is
   significantly increased because of reduced soil productivity and the
   fact that only roots and rhizomes in deep soil will resprout.
   Sedimentation calculations were also conducted for the burned area by
   the Helena NRCS Field Office. Sediment delivery was calculated to be
   2.1 tons per acre per year. Erosion rates were calculated using the
   Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE). The average calculated rate was
   about 20 tons per acre per year. To control the erosion predicted to
   occur, 3,820 acres of private property were aerial seeded with 37,000
   pounds of wheatgrass in late February, 2001. EWP funds were used to pay
   for the seed and the helicopter needed to spread the seed. A mix of
   thickspike wheatgrass and slender wheatgrass was used because these
   wheatgrasses establish quickly and will provide quick cover for erosion
   control and weed competition. However, they also die out quickly,
   allowing native species to establish without competition from
   introduced species. In addition to the seeding, workshops were held to
   inform landowners of assistance opportunities and to educate
   individuals about activities that could help mitigate the fire effects
   and protect valuable soil resources. Left: The Youth Conservation Corp
   of Lewis and Clark County helped to construct erosion control measures.
   Contour tree felling was combined with seeding to stabilize slopes.
   Right: NRCS engineers designed practices to control sediment movement
   in drainages at high risk for erosion. - 5 - Emergency Watershed
   Protection & Environmental Quality Incentives Program in Montana
   Working Together Bob Nelson NRCS teamed up with the Bitterroot
   Conserva- lost his house tion District to increase efficiency in
   contracting with in the Valley Complex fires. and distributing
   emergency funds to private property As the owners. The partnership
   required NRCS employees to Conservation plan for protective measures,
   the Bitterroot Conserva- District Board tion District to complete
   contracts with the landown- Supervisor, he ers, and the landowner to
   complete the work. is now helping All of these erosion control measures
   were tested his neighbors throughout the fall of 2000 and summer of
   2001. protect their Significant damage was prevented by the erosion
   property from control measures even though July rainstorms ex- damage.
   ceeded design expectations. In one July storm, one- half inch to one
   inch of precipitation fell in less than "In the position I'm in, seeing
   how it is to get one hour. funding, I'm real happy about how much
   assistance we've gotten from the NRCS EWP program. The amount of work
   that has been done and how quickly it was done was just "It makes the
   fires and amazing." mudslides easier to take if Bob Nelson, Bitterroot
   Conservation District someone comes out to help you. Board Supervisor
   and homeowner, Dickson It isn't quite as overwhelming Creek when you've
   got someone telling you you're doing things right and letting you know
   what might happen." Watermarks are visible on the Ed buildings Lesky,
   from flows home- that owner, occurred in North July 2001. Fork of Rye
   Creek The barrier protecting Ed Lesky's home was enginered by the NRCS.
   "I didn't believe anyone when they said I needed all of these things. I
   didn't want the barriers or other things here because my yard was so
   nice. I threatened to take it all out, but I'm not going to "I really
   enjoyed working with the do it now." NRCS. They told us the best way to
   build the log barrier and they Myra Townsend, homeowner, Franklin Gulch
   kept in touch after that to make sure everything was still going well.
   I can't imagine if that wall hadn't been there when the "Everyone
   really cares - BIRT, NRCS, and thunderstorms hit." the Fire Recovery
   Team. I was so glad they Ruby Pennock, homeowner, Beam came to help us
   after the fire. I actually Creek wanted to take the sandbags along the
   creek out so that I could work on my flowers, now I This barrier
   diverted flows away am thankful that it's still here." from Ruby
   Pennock's home and Sue Kormanick, homeowner, Laird Creek another home
   on the site. - 6 - The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits
   discrimination in its programs and activities on the basis of race,
   color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political
   beliefs, sexual orientation, and marital or family status. (Not all
   prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who
   require alternative means for communication of program information
   (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact the USDA's
   TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TDD). To file a complaint of
   discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Room
   326-W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW, Washington,
   DC, 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or TDD). USDA is an equal
   opportunity provider and employer. 9/01 MT
