http://www.ferc.gov/legal/enforcementhotline/enforcementhotline.htm

   [skip.jpg] [btnrabou.jpg] Calendar of Events Page News & Reports Page
   Documents & Filing Page Legal Matters Page ALJ Page Case Information
   Page OGC Page DRS Page Complaints Page Enforcement Hotline Page Stats &
   Regs Page Informational Resources Page

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons
   Gas main page
   Hydro main page
   Electric main page
   Oil main page

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
      Graphic Docket Sheets / Service Lists Link Graphic Site Map Link
                          Graphic Home Link Graphic


   Enforcement Hotline

          The Enforcement Hotline was formed to resolve conflicts without
          litigation or other formal, lengthy proceedings. Jurisdictional
        companies and members of the public may ask the Hotline for help in
        matters within the Commission's jurisdiction concerning natural gas
          pipelines, oil pipelines, electric utilities and hydroelectric
                                     projects.

      Once a complaint is made, an attorney in the Enforcement section of the
        Office of the General Counsel contacts the other party, usually the
       same day, and seeks to bring the two sides together. All discussions
          are confidential and do not preclude formal action if they are
         unsuccessful. Calls to the Hotline may also be made anonymously.

       Hotline assistance has ranged from clarifying procedural questions to
         preventing gas pipeline companies from cutting off transportation
         services to helping resolve tariff disputes. The Hotline has also
       helped landowners obtain restoration of property damaged by pipeline
      construction and has helped obtain transmission services for wholesale
                             marketers of electricity.
             The Hotline can be reached by using one of three options:

                          Phone toll free: (877) 303-4340

                            E-Mailing: hotline@ferc.gov

                         Writing to the following address:
                                Enforcement Hotline
                       Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
                              888 First Street, N.E.
                              Washington, D.C. 20426

         Enforcement Hotline: Anyone may contact MOE's Hotline to lodge an
           informal complaint against a jurisdictional entity or ask for
         information. This service is very effective in confidentially and
          expeditiously resolving disputes ranging from clarification of
         procedural questions, to resolving tariff disputes, to addressing
       claims of market abuses. Hotline staff respond to all calls promptly,
       and, in instances of dispute, MOE attorneys may facilitate discussion
       between the parties and mediate a resolution. Unresolved disputes may
      become investigations. Callers may also terminate use of the Hotline at
                                     any time.

       The Hotline, however, can not intercede in: (1) compensation disputes
       between landowners and natural gas pipelines; (2) matters before the
        Commission in docketed proceedings; or (3) matters purely involving
                             retail sales and service.

       If you have a retail problem about your gas or electricity service or
      billing, you should contact your state commission whose website can be
      found through NARUC. California retail issues may be addressed through
        CPUC. If you have a pipeline safety problem, you should contact the
      Department of Transportation's Office of Pipeline Safety. Other useful
      links are the Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration;
       the Department of Agriculture's Rural Electric Utilities Service; and
        the Small Business Administration's Office of Regulatory Fairness.


   Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act - Enforcement
                                   Hotline
           Disclaimers - Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                          Updated: October 5, 2001
