http://www.earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Library/RemoteSensingAtmosphere/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                        Reference

     Research Satellites for Atmospheric Sciences, 1978-Present


   By Michael King and David Herring

   Reprinted here with permission of the Encyclopedia of Atmospheric
   Sciences, Edited by Jim Holton, John Pyle, and Judy Curry; published by
   Academic Press 2002.

   The atmosphere changes chemically and physically on widely varying time
   scales—ranging from minutes to decades—and is therefore a challenge to
   measure precisely over the entire globe. But with the National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) 1960 launch of the
   Television Infrared Observation Satellite (TIROS), Earth scientists
   began a new mission to observe large-scale weather patterns from space.
   In the late 1970s, their mission expanded to include global-scale
   measurements that would help them understand the causes and effects of
   longer-term climate change. NASA and its affiliated agencies and
   research institutions collaborated to develop a series of research
   satellites that have enabled scientists to test new remote sensing
   technologies that have advanced scientific understanding of both
   chemical and physical changes in the atmosphere. (“Remote sensing”
   involves the use of devices other than our eyes to observe or measure
   things from a distance without disturbing the intervening medium.) The
   goal is to examine our world comprehensively to determine what dynamics
   drive our planet’s climate system and how climate change affects, and
   is affected by, our environment.

   First TIROS image
   The first television picture of the Earth from space was taken by the
   TIROS-I satellite on April 1, 1960.

   Depending upon their measurement objectives, research satellites
   primarily fly in one of two orbits: (1) a near-polar, sun-synchronous
   orbit to allow their senors to observe the entire globe at the same
   solar time each day, or (2) a mid-inclination, precessing orbit to
   focus their sensors on the equator and lower latitudes where the
   observations are made at different times of day to better sample
   time-varying phenomena such as clouds. Some polar-orbiting satellite
   sensors can observe any given place on the globe as often as every day,
   thus collecting data with high temporal (time) resolution. Other
   satellite sensors view any given place as infrequently as once every 16
   days, thus having relatively low temporal resolution for a satellite
   sensor, but still far surpassing our ability to make these same
   measurements with surface-based or aircraft sensors. Satellite sensors
   with high spatial resolution (15 meters per pixel) can discern objects
   in the atmosphere or on the surface as small as say a football field or
   farmland, thus providing high spatial resolution. Other satellite
   sensors that are designed to measure continental and global-scale
   dynamics typically have only moderate (500 meters per pixel) to low (20
   kilometers per pixel) spatial resolution. Satellite sensors carry
   specially designed detectors that are particularly sensitive to certain
   wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum, called spectral bands. The
   more precisely a remote sensor can measure narrow bands of radiant
   energy, and the greater the number of these discreet bands it can
   measure, the higher is its spectral resolution. The atmosphere
   interacts with solar radiation much like a venetian blind—selectively
   absorbing and reflecting certain wavelengths of solar energy while
   allowing others to pass through. Engineers design satellite remote
   sensors to be particularly sensitive to those wavelengths that can be
   reflected or emitted back up through the atmosphere to space, thus
   enabling them to make their measurements.


   pullquote

   Remote Sensing
   Introduction
   Balancing Earth’s Radiant Energy Budget
   Dust in the Wind
   Abstract Art or Arbiters of Energy?
   Serendipity and Stratospheric Ozone
   The Chemistry of Earth’s Atmosphere
   Where Storm Clouds Gather
   Conclusion

   Related Articles
   Aerosols and Climate Change
   Clouds and Radiation
   Why isn’t Earth Hot as an Oven?

   Related Datasets
   TOMS Ozone
   Precipitation
   Cloud Fraction



     Atmospheric transmission graph
     Much like a venetian blind, the gases and particles in Earth’s
     atmosphere selectively absorb and reflect certain wavelengths of
     radiant energy while allowing others to pass through relatively
     unhindered. The graph above shows the percent of radiant energy that is
     allowed to pass through the atmosphere for each wavelength of the
     electromagnetic spectrum, ranging from the short wavelengths of
     ultraviolet, visible, and infrared light to the much longer wavelengths
     of thermal infrared and microwave energy. Satellite sensors are
     designed to be particularly sensitive to those wavelengths of radiant
     energy that can be reflected or emitted back up through the atmosphere
     to space.


    Earth-orbiting remote sensors provide the best means of collecting the
    data scientists need because they can measure things on scales of time
    and space that otherwise would not be possible. Moreover, satellite
    sensors not only observe wavelengths of visible light, they also
    precisely measure wavelengths of radiant energy that our eyes cannot
    see, such as microwaves, ultraviolet rays, or infrared light. If
    scientists know how certain objects (like cirrus clouds or windblown
    dust) typically absorb, reflect, and emit particular wavelengths of
    radiant energy, then by using satellite sensors to precisely measure
    those specific bands of the electromagnetic spectrum, scientists can
    learn a lot about the Earth’s atmosphere and surface. Remote sensors
    allow us to observe and quantify key climate and environmental vital
    signs such as temperature, ozone concentrations, carbon monoxide and
    other pollutants, water vapor and other greenhouse gases, cloud types
    and total cloud cover, aerosol types and concentrations, radiant energy
    fluxes, and many more.

    next: Balancing Earth’s Radiant Energy Budget




     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
