http://www1.usatrade.gov/Website/Website.nsf/WebBySubj/TradeEvents_AboutTradeEvents

   Export.gov Logo

                  U. S. Commercial Service
                  About Trade Events

                             Find Int'l Partners

                               Market Research

                                Trade Events

                           Consulting and Advocacy

                               Trade Resources


      U.S. Commercial Service Logo

    Quick Reference
    About Us
    Employment
    Press Room
    Special Initiatives
    Contact Us
    BuyUSA Sites

   Find an Office Near You: _____ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Enter Zip Code
   Logo for the E-Marketplace: BuyUSA

   Search our trade events database for upcoming shows or use one of our
   trade show services below

     Find Trade Events
   Matchmaker Trade Delegations
   Let you meet face-to-face with qualified business prospects in two to
   four promising export markets. The program includes comprehensive
   country briefings, logistical support, and follow-up counseling.
   International Catalog Exhibition Program
   Showcase your product and service literature in fast-growing export
   markets around the world, and you don't have to leave your home. Let us
   do the legwork and send you the leads.
   International Buyer Program
   Recruits and more than 125,000 foreign end-users and distributors to
   visit top U.S. trade shows. We help organize meetings and provide
   matchmaking services and business counseling to help you generate
   sales.
   U.S. Pavilions
   Put you in the best international trade shows with access to thousands
   of buyers. One-on-one matching at the show with potential buyers
   arranged by our team of market and industry specialists can help you
   generate sales and long-term business relationships at these
   high-volume shows.
   Certified Trade Missions
   Every year, the U.S. Commercial Service supports dozens of trade
   missions organized by state organizations, chambers of commerce, and
   industry associations. We have offices around the world and offer a
   range of custom-tailored services to help ensure the success of your
   next mission.
   ShowTime
   Provides in-depth counseling at major trade shows from a team of market
   and industry specialists who know the local and regional markets. Hit
   the show floor armed with invaluable insights and have your order book
   ready.
   Single Company Promotions
   Provide meeting space and carefully screened invitation lists to help
   you present successful seminars featuring your firm's products and
   services.
   Commercial News USA
   Promotes your products or services to more than 400,000 international
   buyers. A great way to reach a targeted audience eager to buy U.S.
   products and services. This magazine has a proven track record of
   high-response rates and sales results.

                        Privacy Statement | Site Map
      BuyUSA | International Trade Administration | U.S. Department of
                                  Commerce
