http://cbdb.nimh.nih.gov/sibstudy/index.html


   NIMH


   CLINICAL BRAIN DISORDERS BRANCH


   Homepage


   Who can participate?


   What do I have to do?


   Do I change medication?


   Do I get paid?


   Where does the study take place?


   What about lodging and transportation costs?


   How can I get involved?



   [titlebanner.gif]


   Schizophrenia is a complex brain disorder affecting thoughts and
   perceptions. This illness affects at least 1% of the population
   worldwide, regardless of race, economic condition, or geographic
   location. Families who have one member of the family ill with
   schizophrenia have a greater chance of developing this illness than
   families who have no relative with this illness.
   [insert1.gif]

   The scientists at the National Institute of Mental Health believe that
   environmental factors combined with genetic predisposition lead to the
   development of schizophrenia. The NIMH genetic studies focus on
   gathering families' genetic and environmental information to better
   understand what places one family member at risk and conversely, what
   protects other family members. To this end, family members are asked to
   participate in a number of procedures that help scientists measure
   various family characteristics to see if they run in families.
   Genotyping, or DNA analysis, is an important part of this process.
   However, families should understand that this is a very complex
   analysis and NIMH does not plan to provide family members with
   individual genetic test results.

   The scientists believe that future treatments and preventive methods
   will rely heavily on the findings of this developing study. It is for
   this reason that we ask families to participate. Hundreds of families
   are needed. The staff at NIMH invites you and your family to review
   this website and welcome you to call us for more information.
   [yellowbar.gif]

                                TO CONTACT US

   [yellowbar.gif]

                                    Call
                               1-888-674-6464
                                   e-mail
                         weirichm@intra.nimh.nih.gov

   [yellowbar.gif]

                   You are visitor number ___ to our site
                           Thank you for visiting!
   [yellowbar.gif]

                    This page was last updated: 1/17/2002

   Disclaimer: You have entered a website that describes an NIMH-funded
   study on the genetics of schizophrenia. If you are seeking immediate
   help for treatment of schizophrenia, we recommend that you contact your
   clinician or your nearest emergency room. This website is created
   solely for the purpose of providing information to families who may
   wish to participate in this study. This website does not provide a chat
   room. Interested parties should contact NIMH staff through the numbers
   listed above.

      Hearing impaired callers can use the toll-free TTY #866-411-1010
