http://www.sq14.cawg.cap.gov/Goals.htm

   Who is CAP?

   Home
   Members
   Schedule
   Library
   News
   CadetCalendar
   Location
   Who is CAP?
   Photo Album
   Programs
   CadetPics
   SeniorPics

   [CAP60.gif]

   Civil Air Patrol marks diamond anniversary

   On Saturday, Dec. 1, Civil Air Patrol marks 60 years of humanitarian
   service. Throughout the nation, Civil Air Patrol units in local
   communities are celebrating this special day through special activities
   and proclamations of Civil Air Patrol Day. Following the recent attack
   on the World Trade Center, Civil Air Patrol volunteers across the
   nation sprang into action-continuing a tradition of homeland defense to
   this country that began 60 years ago. For more than a half century, the
   official Air Force Auxiliary has carried out non-combat missions on
   behalf of the U.S. Air Force. The Civil Air Patrol was officially
   established as a volunteer civilian defense organization on Dec. 1,
   1941, just one week before Pearl Harbor . During World War II, CAP
   became famous for coastal patrol where civilian volunteers used their
   aircraft to spot enemy submarines along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.
   Recognizing that America's entrance into the war was imminent and
   general aviation would be needed to succeed, CAP grew rapidly into an
   army of over 100,000 civilian volunteers committed to protecting
   America's coastlines. Back then, the organization was composed of men
   too old for the Army, boys too young for it, women who wanted to serve
   our nation in a productive capacity and thousands of others who later
   saw action in every branch of military service. CAP volunteer pilots
   flew more than 24 million miles over the Atlantic and Gulf in
   single-engine aircraft to help win the battle against German U-boats
   that were preying on coastal shipping early in the war. Armed with
   bombs and depth charges, the CAP Coastal Patrol found 173 German subs,
   attacked 57, hit 10 and sank two. After the war, a German commander
   confirmed during a speech he gave to the Rehoboth Beach Coastal Patrol
   that U-boat operations were withdrawn from our coasts "because of those
   damned little red and yellow airplanes." In the days following the
   World Trade Center attack, Civil Air Patrol wings across the nation
   sprang into action. In fact the first direct overhead aerial shots of
   the disaster site were provided by our New York Wing. Our members
   sprang into action from Oregon to Florida; from New Mexico to
   Maine-throughout this great nation, CAP answered the call for transport
   of blood and blood products, monitoring airports, transportation of
   government officials, manning state emergency operations centers and
   providing aerial reconnaissance. The recent tragedy only underscores
   the need for homeland defense, and as volunteers of the greatest
   organization on earth, this tragic event brings us full circle as we
   again prepare to guard our homeland. Even though CAP missions have been
   modified by the needs of a more complex society today, the spirit of
   those early aviators is still evident in the enthusiasm displayed by
   our 60,000 volunteer members in service to their communities. Steeped
   in the tradition of its wartime service, Civil Air Patrol has matured
   into a viable humanitarian civilian service organization. At the 2001
   National Board Meeting and Annual Convention in Cincinnati, Ohio, this
   past August, Civil Air Patrol paid special tribute to its founding
   fathers and charter members. Dec. 1, will mark Civil Air Patrol's 60th
   and wings and units across the nation will celebrate this event in
   their hometowns. To further recognize this milestone, a 60th
   Anniversary Gala will be held at the National Air and Space Museum on
   March 2, 2002. Civil Air Patrol leaders will honor and pay tribute to
   our World War II volunteer members who served as pilots in the CAP
   Coastal Patrol - the very first "homeland defense" group. Their service
   is one of America's great untold stories. The gala was originally
   scheduled for Dec. 1, but the tragic events of Sept.11 prompted the
   national commander to reschedule to March 2, which coincides with Civil
   Air Patrol Winter National Board meeting and Legislative Day. The gala,
   co-hosted by the National Air and Space Museum, will be an
   invitation-only event and will replace the Congressional Reception
   normally scheduled for that time of year. A wreath-laying ceremony is
   planned for March 2 at the CAP memorial at Arlington National Cemetery.
   All former Coastal Patrol members are invited to attend the gala.
   Please contact Charlotte M. Crowe, chief, communication plans and
   programs at (334)953-5320 or ccrowe@capnhq.gov if you or someone you
   know flew as a pilot in the Coastal Patrol. Civil Air Patrol is an
   organization where "Imagination Takes Flight" through volunteers'
   desire to teach, learn and serve. CAP's Aerospace Education mission
   brings educators together to inspire students to pursue aerospace
   studies. In addition, CAP's Cadet Programs provides a structured
   program for young people, ages 12-20, to develop physical fitness,
   leadership skills, and moral and ethical values. Through CAP's
   Emergency Services missions, trained volunteers search for missing
   people and downed aircraft and provide assistance in times of man-made
   and natural disasters

   Civil Air Patrol, the official Air Force Auxiliary, is a nonprofit
   organization. It performs more than 85% of inland search and rescue
   missions tasked by the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center in the
   continental United States. Volunteers also take a leading role in
   aerospace education and serve as mentors to America’s youths through
   CAP cadet programs.


   [trahsepd.gif]

   Click here for map of how to find us [link_to_expmaps.gif]
   www.expedia.com

   For further information, please call or write us!  We'd love to talk to
   you and extend an open invitation to visit. Our unit address is:

   Telephone (916) 393-1435

   Postal address

   5999 Freeport Blvd

   Sacramento, CA 95822

   Electronic mail: General Info for Squadron 14
   Copyright Squadron 14 Civil Air.
   For problems or questions regarding this web contact [SQ14].
   Last updated: January 15, 2002.
