http://carson.house.gov/services-grants.ASP

                              January 30, 2002



           biography | district | issuesandanswers | townhall


           pressroom
                    | photogallery | services | district | contact

      [carson-h-uscongress.gif]
                               [carson-h-2.gif]
                                               [carson-h-endcurve.gif]

     [carson-h-1.gif]
     [carson-h-1a.gif]
                      [16.jpg]
                      [carson-h-picture-1a.gif]
                                               [carson-h-title-1.gif]
                                               [carson-h-minimenu-1.gif]

   [carson-pic1a.jpg]
   [carson-hs-curve1b.gif]
   [carson-hs-curve1.gif]

   [carson-h-onlineoffice.gif]


      | Home / Constituent Services / Grants

      PROJECTS, GRANTS, AND LOANS - Putting Oklahoma First!
           Congressman Carson works to provide assistance to state, local,
      and tribal governments, individuals, and organizations pursuing federal
      grants and loans. Federal funding plays a fundamental role in providing
      law enforcement, opportunities for economic growth, community
      development, educational support, and health care to Oklahoma.
      General Grants Information
            What is a grant?
            What can Congressman Carson do?
            How to write a grant?
            Finding Funding
            Federal Loan Programs
            Federal Disaster Assistance
            Resources and Links
      What is a grant?
           Grants are sums of money awarded by federal agencies and various
      organizations to finance a particular activity or facility. The federal
      government provides grant funding in four categories:
      Formula Funding are allocations of money to states or localities in
          accordance with distribution formulas prescribed by law for
          activities of a continuing nature not confined to a specific
          project.
          Project Grants fund specific projects for fixed periods.
          Congressman Carson can be of great assistance in securing funding.
          Direct Payments for Specified Use are a form of federal funding
          assistance provided directly to individuals, private firms, and
          other private institutions to encourage or subsidize a particular
          activity.
          Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use are a form of federal funding
          assistance provided directly to beneficiaries who satisfy federal
          eligibility requirements with no restrictions on how money is
          spent.

      What can Congressman Carson do?
           Grant applicants must meet certain eligibility requirements for
      many programs, and the Congressman can be of assistance to ensure these
      requirements are met. It is the applicant's responsibility to write the
      grant proposal and meet all deadlines.
           Congressman Carson encourages applicants to contact his office for
      assistance. The Congressman can write letters on behalf of a grant
      application to alert agencies of his support of a project. For a letter
      of support, the Congressman needs the following information:
        * Name of applicant.
        * Address of agency and contact person at the agency.
        * Contact person and telephone number.
        * Name of grant for which you are applying.
        * Name of your project.
        * Deadline for the letter of support.

      In addition, your request for a letter of support should highlight:
        * What your project/program does and who it serves.
        * Why this program is important to your community.
        * Any unique features of your program/project.
        * The specifics of how the grant money will be used.

      You may fax your request to the attention of Shane Jernigan at (202)
      225-3038, or mail it to:
      Congressman Brad Carson
          Attention: Shane Jernigan
          317 Cannon Office Building
          Washington, DC 20515

      You may also Click Here to e-mail your request.
           The Congressman will fight on your behalf to obtain funding, but
      please be aware that Congressman Carson's support does not guarantee
      approval from a federal agency.
      How to write a grant?
            The grant application is the responsibility of the applicant.
      Individual applicants should tailor their grant application to their
      individual needs of the project.
       Developing and Writing a Grant Proposal
      Finding Funding
           There are many sources to find federal, foundation, and corporate
      funding. The following list should not be considered exclusive, but
      rather a starting point.
           Federal Funding
           The definitive source of Federal grant information is the Catalog
      of Federal Domestic Assistance. This is a comprehensive catalog of all
      financial support available from the federal government, including
      research grants, scholarships, state grants, non-profit grants, and
      private assistance.
           The Federal Register proves a uniform system for making public
      regulations and legal notices issued by Federal agencies available to
      the public. This includes some grant availability.
           The Official Federal Government Websites of the Executive Branch
      provides links to the federal departments and independent agencies.
      Review the department and agency websites to find information about
      programs under each jurisdiction.
           National Science Foundation funds research and education in
      science and engineering through grants, contracts, and cooperative
      agreements.
           Society of Research Administrators GrantsWeb is a collection of
      hundreds of links to funding resources from federal and state
      governments. It includes links to federal agency policies, electronic
      journals, grants forms, and writing guides.
           TRAM is a website developed by the Texas Research Administration
      Group which locates funding opportunities from many different agencies.
      The funding information is updated daily.
           Foundation Funding and Corporate Funding
           The Foundation Directory is maintained by the Foundation Center,
      an independent, non-profit information clearinghouse. The Council on
      Foundations is another source for funding. PhilanthropySearch.com is a
      search engine serving the nonprofit and philanthropic sectors.
       U.S. House of Representatives Federal Grant Infomation Web Site.
      Federal Loan Programs
           Loan Information
           There are a number of loan guarantee programs available through
      the federal government. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Loan
      Page lists the federal loan programs.
           The Department of Housing and Urban Development offers a Section
      108 loan guarantee program that enables local governments to transform
      a small portion of their Community Development Block Grant funds into
      federally guaranteed loans large enough to pursue physical and economic
      revitalization projects.
           The Department of Agriculture makes guarantees loans connected
      with rural development. This involves housing programs, community
      facilities, business programs, and cooperative
           Small Business Assistance
           Congressman Carson recognizes the important role small businesses
      play in maintaining a strong economy. The Congressman can assist small
      businesses to obtain loans and other support by writing a letter of
      support.
           The Small Business Administration provides financial, technical
      and management assistance to start, run, and grow small businesses.
      Last year the Administration offered management and technical
      assistance to more than one million small business owners.
           The Export-Import Bank provides guarantees of working capital
      loans for U.S. exporters, guarantees the repayment of loans and makes
      loans to foreign purchasers of U.S. goods and services.
           The U.S. Business Advisor exists to provide businesses with
      one-stop access to federal government information, services, and
      transactions.
           Student Loans
           The Department of Education provides information on financial
      assistance programs. The Student Financial Assistance Programs are the
      largest source of student aid in America, providing over $40 billion a
      year in grants, loans, and work-study assistance. Information regarding
      the Free Application for Federal Student Aid is also found on the
      Departments website.
      Federal Disaster Assistance
           Congressman Carson will do everything possible to assist the state
      in time of disaster.
           The Federal Emergency Management Agency provides: Advising on
      building codes and flood plain management...teaching people how to get
      through a disaster...helping equip local and state emergency
      preparedness...coordinating the federal response to a disaster...making
      disaster assistance available to states, communities, businesses and
      individuals...training emergency managers...supporting the nation's
      fire service...administering the national flood and crime insurance
      programs...the range of FEMA's activities is broad indeed.
           In the event of a natural disaster, please contact Congressman
      Carson's office immediately so that federal assistance can be
      expeditiously provided.
      Resources and Links
       The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance
       The Federal Register
       Official Federal Government Websites of the Executive Branch
       Department of Agriculture
       Rural Development
       Department of Commerce
       Economic Development Administration
       Department of Education
       Department of Health and Human Services
       National Institutes of Health
       Department of Housing and Urban Development
       Department of Justice
       COPS Grants
       Environmental Protection Agency
       Federal Emergency Management Agency


      Helping You
   "I can be helpful in assisting you with federal government agencies.
   Contact one of my district offices (located at the bottom of this page)
   if you have a problem with Social Security, Medicare, the Veterans
   Administration, the IRS, or other federal agencies."

                                                 - Congressman Brad Carson








                                             Do You Support the American Military Attack on Afghanistan?
   [spacer.gif]
Yes (*)
 No ( )
Submit

                          Vote to see results



   biography | district | issuesandanswers | townhall


   pressroom
            | photogallery | services | district | contact
   The Official Web Site of Congressman Brad Carson
   Washington D.C. Office
   317 Cannon House
   Office Building,
   Washington, D.C.
   20515
   (202) 225-2701
   Fax: (202) 225-3038
                           Claremore Office
                         403 West 1st Street,
                         Suite 100
                         Claremore, Oklahoma
                         74017
                         (918) 341-9336
                         Fax: (918) 341-9437
                                               Muskogee Office
                                             215 State Street,
                                             Suite 815
                                             Muskogee, Oklahoma
                                             74401
                                             (918) 687-2533
                                             Fax: (918) 682-8503

                     Congressman Carson's Privacy Policy
