http://www.fsis.usda.gov/USDA-Privacy.htm

   FSIS Logo Food Safety and Inspection Service
             United States Department of Agriculture
             Washington, D.C. 20250-3700

                         Privacy and Security Notice

   Thank you for visiting the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS)
   Web site and reviewing our privacy statement. Our privacy policy is
   clear: We will collect no personal information about you when you visit
   our Web site unless you choose to provide that information to us.

   Here is how we handle information about your visit to our Web site:

    Information Collected and Stored Automatically

   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the Web site,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:
    1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
       private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
       from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a
       number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
       are surfing the Web) from which you access our Web site;
    2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
    3. The date and time you access our site;
    4. The pages you visit; and
    5. If you linked to the Food Safety and Inspection Service Web site
       from another Web site, the address of that Web site.

   We use this information to help us make our site more useful to
   visitors - to learn about the number of visitors to our site and the
   types of technology our visitors are using. We do not track or record
   information about individuals and their visits.

    If You Send Us Personal Information

   If you choose to provide us with personal information, as in an e-mail
   to the Webmaster, FOIA officer, or other FSIS office or employee, or by
   filling out a form with your personal information and submitting it to
   us through our Web site, we use that information to respond to your
   message and to help us locate for you the information you have
   requested. We treat e-mails the same way that we regard letters sent to
   the Food Safety and Inspection Service. We are required to maintain
   many documents under the Presidential Records Act for historical
   purposes, but we do not collect personal information for any purpose
   other than to respond to you. We only share the information you give us
   with another government agency if your inquiry relates to that agency,
   or as otherwise required by law. Moreover, we do not create individual
   profiles with the information you provide or to give it to any private
   organizations. The Food Safety and Inspection Service does not collect
   information for commercial marketing.

    Links to Other Sites

   Our Web site has links to many other federal agencies. In a few cases
   we link to private organizations, with their permission. Once you
   access another site through a link that we provide you are subject to
   the privacy policy of the new site.

    Web Site Security

   Information presented on the FSIS Web site is considered public
   information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate
   byline/photo/image credits is requested.
    1. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, this government computer system employs
       software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
       unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
       cause damage.
    2. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
       attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
       habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
       scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
       Archives and Records Administration General Schedule 20.
    3. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
       on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
       the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
       Information Infrastructure Protection Act.

    Comments or Questions

   If you have any comments or questions about the information presented
   here please forward them to fsis.webmaster@usda.gov
   [OA/closebot.htm]
