http://www.sdb.uscourts.gov/CaseInformation.htm

                              Case Information
                                 [flag.gif]



   Home
   New Items
   Bankruptcy Basics
   Local Rules
   Forms/ Samples
   Decisions
   Case Information
   Court Calendars
   Practice Pointers
   Addresses
   Links
   Job Opportunities

   On December 1, 2001, we converted all our case information (dockets) to
   CM/ECF.  We are in the process of converting all our images.  While
   that conversion is ongoing, we recommend that you access all docket
   information from CM/ECF (using your PACER login and password).  Images
   for all post-November 30 filings will be available on CM/ECF.  Images
   for pre-December 1 filings will become available on CM/ECF as they are
   converted.  If a pre-December 1 image is not available on CM/ECF, it
   will still be available via WebPACER.  Once all our images have been
   converted to CM/ECF, WebPACER will be discontinued.

CM/ECF Information

     The CM/ECF system allows anyone with access to the internet to
     obtain information regarding bankruptcy cases, including dockets,
     claims register, mailing lists, and lists of cases filed by
     date. CM/ECF IS NOT FREE.  Absent a Court order waiving the fee, you
     will be assessed a fee of $0.07 per page for accessing the
     information available through CM/ECF, including our case file
     images. If you do not already have a PACER account, you may register
     on-line at http://pacer.psc.uscourts.gov. There is no charge for
     registration - only for usage. Please contact Harland Danielsen at
     605-330-4549 or  Harland_Danielsen@sdb.uscourts.gov with any
     questions.

     In order to view documents on CM/ECF, you will need to have the
     Adobe Acrobat reader installed.  It is available from www.adobe.com
     and is free of charge.

     In addition, CM/ECF may also be used by attorneys admitted to the
     Federal Bar for the District of South Dakota and individuals
     employed by such an attorney -- once they have been trained and
     certified -- to file documents with the Court electronically.

WebPACER

          The WebPACER system allows anyone with access to the internet to
          obtain information in much the same manner as CM/ECF (see
          above).

          In order to view documents on WebPACER, you will need to have
          the PaperPort viewer installed.  Click here to down load the
          viewer for Windows.

          Due to database limitations inherent in BANCAP and/or Unix,
          WebPACER is case sensitive. A search for the name "smith" or
          "SMITH" will not "find" any cases filed by debtors named
          "Smith." Similarly, a search for the name "macdonald" or
          "Macdonald" will not "find" any cases filed by debtors named
          "MacDonald." Please be aware of this limitation when conducting
          your searches.

VCIS Information

          The Voice Case Information System (VCIS) allows anyone with a
          touch-tone telephone to obtain information concerning a
          bankruptcy case, including the case number, the debtor's name,
          the filing date, the chapter, the debtor's attorney's name, the
          trustee's name, the judge, and the current status.



PACER Information

          On February 1, 2002, you will no longer be able to access our
          PACER system.  All information available through PACER is now
          available on our CM/ECF system (see above).


          The Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) system
          allows anyone with a personal computer and a modem to obtain
          information concerning bankruptcy cases, including: dockets;
          claims registers; mailing matrix; and a list of cases filed each
          day for the preceding five work days.

Case Browser Information

     The Case Browser allows electronic access to our case files,
     including images of pleadings and claims.  However, it is only
     available to the public at our intake counters in Sioux Falls and
     Pierre.


   Questions or comments about this website?  Contact
   Harland_Danielsen@sdb.uscourts.gov.
   Last modified: March 05, 2001
