http://www.esa.doc.gov/508/esa/home.htm

   You are receiving this message since your browser does not support Java
   Script or you have Java Scripts disabled in your browser. The following
   disclaimer paragraphs are provided below as the alternative for display
   of information that would normally be seen on your monitor when you
   click on a link to a federal site or if you clicked on a link to a
   non-federal site.
     * All external links to federal sites include an exit Java Script
       pop-up disclaimer that includes the following language. "If you
       have any comments or suggestions about our web site please feel
       free to contact us. If you need to go back to our site please hit
       the back button of your browser, after hit the OK button."
     * All external links to nonfederal sites include an exit pop-up
       disclaimer that includes the following language: "You are now
       leaving the Economics and Statistics web site. Thank you for
       visiting our site. If you have any comments or suggestions about
       our web site please feel free to contact us. You are now leaving
       Economics and Statistics Administration site to link to another web
       site that is not maintained by this Agency. The Economics and
       Statistics Administration doesn't become responsible for any
       material contained on those sites. If you need to go back to our
       site please hit the back button of your browser, after hit the OK
       button."

   Any questions about exit disclaimers should be referred to
   Ileana.gabriel@esa.doc.gov

   Department of Commerce Logo - It is in the shape of a circle with a
   blue border and the words "Department of Commerce United States of
   America". In the center of the logo there is an eagle over a shield
   depicting a ship and lighthouse.



   U.S. Department of Commerce - "Economics and Statistics Administration"


   Home     ESA Links      Press Releases     U.S. Economy      Speeches
                              and Statements

     Welcome to Economics and Statistics Administration (ESA) Website

   ESA en Español [II.gif] [internship.gif]

   The Economics and Statistics Administration (ESA) is the bureau within
   the U.S. Department of Commerce where economic and social change is
   chronicled, understood, and explained. Many political and business
   decisions are based upon the economic and demographic information
   produced by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, US Census Bureau, and
   STAT-USA. ESA has three primary missions: 1) maintain the highest
   possible quality Federal statistical system and make improvements where
   warranted and feasible, 2) communicate a vision of the key forces at
   work in the economy and of the opportunities they create for improving
   the well-being of all Americans, and 3) support the information and
   analytical needs of the Department and the Executive Branch.


        Economics and Statistics Administration's Organization Chart

                          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Up

                             Organization Chart


          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs
   The Under Secretary for Economic Affairs serves as the principal
   adviser to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary on economic issues, and
   oversees the activities of the US Census Bureau and the Bureau of
   Economic Analysis. The Under Secretary also serves as the Department's
   representative to the Council on Economic Advisers, interagency panels
   on economic issues, and other government agencies concerned with
   economic matters. The Under Secretary is responsible for the analysis
   and development of policies on economic and statistical issues, and on
   issues affecting broad sectors of the domestic economy in response to
   the needs and interests of the Secretary or Deputy Secretary. The Under
   Secretary's principal responsibilities include: economic forecasting;
   consultation with the private sector on economic and broad economic
   sectoral developments; and policy analysis and development in the areas
   of economic policy.

   Kathleen B. Cooper - Under Secretary for Economic Affairs (Biography)
   Carla Langjahr - Executive Assistant

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for Economic Affairs
   The Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for Economic Affairs provides
   key advice to the Under Secretary on all programs and policy issues,
   and has oversight responsibility for the policies and programs of the
   US Census Bureau, Bureau of Economic Analysis, and ESA Headquarters.
   The Office of Policy Development reports to the Deputy Under Secretary.

   Lee Price - Deputy Under Secretary for Economic Affairs
   Ruby J. Ferrell - Secretary


          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of the Associate Under Secretary for Management
   The Office of the Associate Under Secretary for Management provides
   oversight and direction on management policy and activities for all
   units reporting to the Administrator and ensures that staff work and
   resources are implemented effectively and in accordance with the Under
   Secretary's objectives and policies. Primary responsibilities of the
   Office include directing the day-to-day operations of the Economics and
   Statistics Administration (ESA) Headquarters, the allocation and
   direction of personnel and budgetary resources, and the formulation and
   implementation of ESA's Headquarters and the Bureau of Economic
   Analysis' budget; managing high priority, time-critical, or sensitive
   ESA-wide projects, integrating, as appropriate, the expertise, data,
   and analyses of ESA's offices into such projects; and overseeing
   implementation of ESA's executive resources and the Senior Executive
   Service and General Workforce performance management program. STAT-USA
   and the Office of Under Secretary report to the Associate Under
   Secretary for Management.
   Kim White - Associate Under Secretary for Management
   Maria L. Contreras - Program Analyst
   Fifi A. Ellis - Correspondence Program Specialist
   Gerri Tyer - Administrative Liaison

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of the Associate Under Secretary for Communications
   The Office of the Associate Under Secretary for Economic Affairs
   provides general oversight and coordination of all matters in ESA
   relating to legislation, congressional affairs and liaison, public
   affairs, and intergovernmental affairs.

   Elizabeth R. Gregory - Associate Under Secretary for Communications
   Jane A. Callen - Economic Information Officer
   Kerry Sutten - Congressional & Intergovernmental Affairs Specialist
   Christa Jones - Senior Analyst

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of the Chief Economist
   The Chief Economist is the Under Secretary's principal adviser on
   economic matters. The Chief Economist also serves as a special adviser
   to the Secretary of Commerce and as a member of the Secretary's
   principal management team. The Office of the Chief Economist conducts
   analyses of policy proposals with macroeconomics implications; monitors
   and interprets current economic developments and domestic fiscal and
   monetary policy; analyzes economic conditions and policy initiatives of
   major trading partners; makes projections of the economic outlook;
   analyzes major economic policy developments for use by senior White
   House officials and the Secretary's and Under Secretary's participation
   in interagency deliberations; and takes part in discussions of policies
   affecting statistical agencies. The Office of Economic Conditions
   reports to the Chief Economist.

   Vacant - Chief Economist
   Ann M. Bailey - Secretary

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of Economic Conditions
   The Office of Economic Conditions (OEC) reports to the Chief Economist.
   OEC provides current economic analysis of major economic data releases
   and provides a weekly commentary on current economic and financial
   developments, analyses of major economic data releases, and press
   statements, briefing material, or analyses on topics of special
   interest to the Chief Economist and other senior officials.

   Carl E. Cox - Director
   John H. Tschetter - Deputy Director
   William B. Brown - Economist
   George T. McKittrick - Economist
   Timothy M. Baxter - Economist
   David R. Payne - Statistician
   Vacant - Economist

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of Policy Development
   The Office of Policy Development (OPD) has two major functions:
   supplementing the Secretary's immediate policy staff and conducting
   economic policy research and analysis. OPD represents the Department in
   interagency policy deliberations on business issues, including
   environmental regulation, energy, pension policy, health insurance, and
   employment and training. In addition, the Office advises the Under
   Secretary on the structure and performance of American industries, the
   differential industry and regional effects of general economic
   developments and policies, and the relationship between firm and
   industry level performance and overall US economic strength. The Office
   is an authoritative source of economic research on the digital economy
   and prepares the Department's annual Digital Economy report. OPD
   consists of the Office of Policy Analysis and the Office of Business
   and Industrial Analysis. The Office of Policy Development reports to
   the Deputy Under Secretary for Economic Affairs.

   Jeffrey L. Mayer - Director
   Patricia A. Buckley - Senior Policy Advisor
   Rayanne P. Frazier - Secretary
   Paula R. Abney - Secretary

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of Policy Analysis
   The Office of Policy Analysis conducts policy analyses and develops
   policy proposals on issues affecting multiple business sectors such as
   antitrust, product liability, business deregulation, corporate finance,
   business tax policy, employment and training, pension issues,
   technology policy, health care financing, and human services.

   Jane W. Molloy - Director
   Laurence S. Campbell - Senior Regulatory Policy Economist
   David C. Lund - Economist
   Sabrina L. Montes - Economist
   Vacant - Economist


          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of Business and Industrial Analysis
   The Office of Business and Industrial Analysis which examines and
   explains the structure and performance of American industries and
   firms, the relationships between industry-level and more general
   economic developments, and the effects of economic policies on US
   firms, industries, and the economy at large.

   Gurmukh S. Gill - Director
   David K. Henry - Commodity Industry Specialist
   David N. Beede - Economist
   Sandra D. Cooke - Economist
   Jess C. Dumagan - Economist
   Donald H. Dalton Jr - Industry Economist
   Dennis G. Pastore - Economist
   Jacqueline L. Savukinas - Economist
   Vacant - Economist

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   STAT-USA
   STAT-USA is a fee-funded office that: 1) develops and operates
   electronic information systems to deliver government economic,
   business, statistical, and foreign trade information to the public,
   primarily through subscription on-line services; and 2) provides expert
   Information Technology (IT) support to other bureaus in the Department.
   STAT-USA's flagship product, STAT-USA/Internet, is a subscription based
   Internet site that contains the international trade information of the
   National Trade Data Bank (NTDB) as well as an extensive collection of
   domestic economic data. Customers can view, print, and download trade
   opportunity leads, market reports, economic releases, and more from the
   State Department, the Bureau of Export Administration, the Federal
   Reserve Board, the US Census Bureau, and others. USA Trade On-line, a
   joint venture with the US Census Bureau and a private partner, is the
   latest STAT-USA product, offering trade statistics to subscribers
   within minutes of release.

   STAT-USA also provides expert IT support services to various bureaus in
   the Department. STAT-USA is uniquely positioned to offer tailored
   services for offices in need of network administration service and
   support, information management solutions, electronic mail services,
   and web site development. IT services are currently being provided to
   the Economics and Statistics Administration Headquarters, the
   Technology Administration, the National Telecommunications and
   Information Administration, and the Office of General Counsel.

   Kay H. Melvin - Director, Director (CIO)
   Kenneth S. Taylor - Deputy Director, Deputy (CIO)
   Armondo P. Lopez - Senior Advisor
   Randy R. Blumenschein - Marketing Analyst
   Forrest B. Williams - Senior Advisor
   Bruce R. Guthrie - Senior Advisor
   Cheryl Brumm - Information Products & Application Development Manager
   John Mukai - Senior Technical Advisor
   Joseph G. Correia - Industry Economist
   Dee G. Atwell - Telecommunications Specialist
   Richard Anderson - Computer Specialist
   Richard C. Brace - Computer Specialist
   Michael Nimmons - Computer Specialist
   Tahira Murphy - Computer Specialist
   Catherine H. Tynan - Computer Specialist
   Linel I. Soto - Computer Specialist
   Lorraine G. Pitts - Statistical Assistant
   Gerry M. Brown - Information Assistant
   Terrina L. Long - Information Assistant
   Donna M. Moore - Information Assistant
   Tanya Shen - Computer Specialist
   IIeana Gabriel - Computer Specialist
   Sarita Moore - Information Assistant
   Shannon Smythe - Business Information Analyst
   Claude E. Showalter - Computer Specialist
   Brent W. Hendershot - Computer Specialist

          Round button of yellow color with an arrow up Organization Chart

   Office of Administration
   The Office of Administration (OA) provides administrative support for
   the Under Secretary of Economic Affairs and the Economics and
   Statistics Administration's (ESA's) Headquarters program offices. OA is
   responsible for the planning, budget and financial services of ESA
   Headquarters, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). This includes:
   strategic planning, budget formulation and presentation, preparation of
   short-term budget projections and operating plans, overseeing financial
   activities, initiating and processing interagency, cooperative and
   joint project agreements, and advising managers on decisions that
   include budget or financial aspects. OA also provides procurement,
   personal security, training, personal property management, and
   administrative management services in the areas of travel, space,
   records management, and the transportation subsidy program.

   Martin J. Rajk - Chief Financial Officer (CFO) & Director of
   Administration
   Kate D. Hickman - Budget Officer
   Wesley C. Dias - Program Analyst
   Sarah M. Warren - Budget Analyst
   Francine A. McCullough - Budget Analyst
   William G. Marvin - Budget Analyst
   Mary C. Palmer - Budget Analyst
   Lisa Conley - Budget Analyst
   Joseph E. Rollins - Budget Analyst
   Vickey L. Simms - Secretary
   Melva C. Smith - Budget Assistant
   LaSerne R. Davis - Office Automation Clerk


                           You are visitor number:
                            Web-Stat hit counter

        Privacy Statement | FOIA | Calendar | Credits | Accessibility

     US Department of Commerce, Economics and Statistics Administration,
     14th St. & Constitution Ave., NW, Room 4885, Washington D.C. 20230

     © Copyright 2000-2001 Economics and Statistics Administration. All
                              Rights Reserved.

   We are working to provide you with the latest information available. If
    you have any comments or suggestions about our web site, please send
            the webmaster an e-mail at Ileana.gabriel@esa.doc.gov
