http://www.ganb.uscourts.gov/Main.htm



   THE

      UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
            for the Northern District of Georgia -- On The Web
            Stacey W. Cotton, Chief Judge -- W. Yvonne Evans, Clerk of Court

   bluetesta.jpg (897 bytes)

   Welcome To Our Web Site !

                         What's New...

                                Visitors Guide

               The Latest News in the World of ECF (Fall 2001)

                               Test Drive ECF

                               Bankruptcy News
                                  From ABI

                            Consumer Information

                                 Local Rules

                        Publicly Available Resources

                                  Web Tips

   Date Posted

                                    Topic
   January 28, 2002 Judge Mullins has adopted an open calendar procedure
   that is effective February 1, 2002.  This procedure is identical to the
   one used by Judge Massey pursuant to which attorneys must set hearings
   on motions. Click on Chambers and then Mullins, J. in the menu to the
   left for details.
   January 8, 2002 Added a notice about Service of Orders and the
   Bankruptcy Noticing Center .

   You can view it here.
   January 7, 2002


   While many of us enjoyed the New Year Holiday, attorneys filed (via the
   CM/ECF System) a total of 18 new Bankruptcy petitions on January 1,
   2002. Also, on that date, while the Court was closed for the Holiday,
   attorneys, Trustees, and the United States Trustee completed 56
   transactions.
   In addition, on January 3, 2002, while the Court was closed due to
   inclement weather, many of your colleagues were taking advantage of
   CM/ECF. Throughout the District on that day there were 27 new
   Bankruptcy petitions filed. The United States Trustee, Case Trustees,
   and attorneys completed a total of 272 transactions.
   DON'T YOU WANT THAT SAME ADVANTAGE?
   Click on the ECF link on this page for access to the necessary
   registration forms. Complete those forms and deliver them to Gary Drake
   or Irene Wiggins in Atlanta, or the Deputy-in-Charge of the
   Gainesville, Newnan or Rome Divisions, so you can begin taking
   advantage of Electronic Case Filing.
   W. Yvonne Evans
   Clerk of Court


   January 4, 2002


   Judge A. D. Kahn's last official day as an active Judge was December
   31, 2001. As there is an on-going confirmation process for Judge Kahn's
   replacement, we have set up a new generic Judge code for the assignment
   of cases. This new code, "A998", will appear on notices and other court
   documents. When the new Judge begins receiving case assignments, those
   cases will be reassigned to an active Judge.


   Dec 19, 2001


   The merger of data in the BanCAP database into the CM/ECF database was
   successful.  CM/ECF is now available for filing documents.  CM/ECF now
   includes for all active cases pending in this Court, including those
   previously posted in the BanCAP system.  Henceforth, the official
   dockets are those posted in CM/ECF.


   Dec. 14, 2001


   Regarding the computer shutdown coming up next week, the Clerk of Court
   indicated that you may file matters during that period the computers
   are shut down in paper form.


   Dec. 13, 2001


    Two actions are going to occur next week in the automation systems of
   the U. S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Georgia.
   1. On Tuesday, December 18th, at 5:00 p.m., the Court Systems staff
   will be temporarily removing our BanCAP computers from active service.
   These computers serve the entire district, including the Atlanta, Rome,
   Newnan and Gainesville offices. Services rendered unavailable will be
   access to BanCAP itself for information querying; VCIS (which will only
   be current up through the cut-off); and PACER (which will also only be
   current up through the cut-off).
   2. On Wednesday, December 19th, at 5:00 p.m., the Court Systems staff
   will be removing temporarily our CM/ECF computers from active service.
   These computers serve the entire district, including the Atlanta, Rome,
   Newnan and Gainesville offices. Services rendered unavailable will be
   access to filing CM/ECF documents, as well as the querying of that
   system.
   The two systems could possibly be up as early as Saturday, December
   22nd, although it may be as late as Monday, December 24th. All of these
   actions are being undertaken as an important step of moving the 15,000
   active cases in BanCAP over to CM/ECF. This action moves us closer to
   our intended goal of going totally paperless on January 1, 2002.


   More


   Information on Certain Chapter 11 Cases
   Wolf Camera, Inc.  Case No. 01-83470 and Related Cases
   Flooring America, Inc. Case No. 00-68370 and Related Cases


                               Visitor Guide

   Please consult our Visitors Guide to learn about navigating around our
   site and to have a general overview of the information we provide
   here. U.S. Bankruptcy Courts are federal trial courts that handle and
   adjudicate disputes in bankruptcy cases and related proceedings. Our
   court sits in the Northern District of Georgia and operates in four
   geographic divisions with courthouses located in Atlanta, Gainesville,
   Newnan and Rome. We provide this web site as a service to those persons
   having an interest in cases before this court and as a source of
   general information about our operations. We hope that you will find it
   informative and useful.

                           Electronic Case Files
   This court participates in the Electronic Case Files Initiative
   ("ECF"), a case management system being designed by the Administrative
   Office of United States Courts. Using the Netscape Navigator browser,
   attorneys may file pleadings electronically and litigants and the
   public may view and copy pleadings without having to come to the
   courthouse. For more information, including access to user manuals,
   click here on CM/ECF.



   Hits since 01/31/01       Hit Counter
