http://mls.jpl.nasa.gov/joe/um_inst.html

                            The UARS MLS Instrument

   The UARS MLS instrument is described by Barath et al. [ J. Geophys.
   Res., vol. 98, pp. 10,751-10,762, 1993] and its calibration by Jarnot
   et al. [ J. Geophys. Res., vol. 101, pp. 9957-9982, 1995]; these papers
   can be consulted for more information than given in the brief summary
   here.

   [umls_inst_photo.gif] [umls_inst_sketch.gif]
   The figures above show a photo and sketch of UARS MLS. The instrument
   has three assemblies: sensor, spectrometer and power supply. Thermal
   control of the sensor is radiational by louvers, with in-orbit
   temperature stability of approximately 0.01^oC or better, allowing
   "total power" measurements which do not require fast switching to a
   reference. The overall instrument mass is 280 kg, power consumption is
   163 W fully-on, and data rate is 1250 bits/second.

   A signal flow block diagram of the instrument is shown below.
   [umls_inst_sfbd.gif]
   A three-mirror antenna system receives thermal radiation from the
   atmospheric limb and is mechanically scanned to move its field-of-view
   through the atmospheric limb in the vertical plane. A limb scan is
   performed every 65.536 s (a UARS Engineering Major Frame, EMAF, or MLS
   Major Frame, MMAF) during normal operations, and covers limb
   tangent-points having an approximate height range between the surface
   and 90 km. "Oblateness" signals from UARS are used to account for
   variations in the direction to the limb due to Earth oblateness and
   variations in the UARS orbit. The MLS optics are diffraction-limited by
   the aperture of the primary mirror whose dimension is 1.6 meters in the
   vertical and 0.8 meters in the horizontal. A "switching mirror" accepts
   radiation from the scanning antenna system for atmospheric
   measurements, and from an internal ambient-temperature target or `cold'
   space for radiometric calibrations which are performed on each limb
   scan.

   A dichroic plate following the switching mirror separates signals to
   the 63 GHz radiometer (for temperature and pressure measurements); a
   polarization grid then separates signals to the 183 GHz radiometer (for
   water vapor and ozone in the stratosphere and mesosphere) and to the
   205 GHz radiometer (for stratospheric ClO and ozone - and the new
   products of sulfur dioxide injected into the stratosphere by volcanoes,
   lower stratospheric nitric acid, and upper tropospheric water vapor).

   Ambient-temperature Schottky-diode mixer heterodyne radiometers
   down-convert the radiation to intermediate frequency (IF) bands in the
   range of 0-3 GHz; the local oscillator frequencies are 63.283, 184.777
   and 203.267 GHz. The 63 GHz local oscillator is a phase-locked Gunn
   oscillator and is coupled to the atmospheric signals by waveguide. The
   183 and 205 GHz local oscillators are generated by frequency-tripling
   signals from phase-locked Gunn oscillators operating near 60 GHz, and
   are combined quasi-optically with the atmospheric signals. The
   radiometers have approximately, but not exactly, equal responses at IF
   frequencies above and below the local oscillator. The radiometers
   operate at ambient temperature and have double-sideband noise
   temperatures (measured at the switching mirror input) of: 400K for the
   63 GHz radiometer; 990K for the 205 GHz radiometer ClO band and 1530K
   for the O3 band; 1650K for the 183 GHz H2O band and 1820K for the O3
   band. The 63 and 205 GHz radiometers are now in their sixth year of
   in-orbit operation with no degradations detected in their performance
   since they were constructed some 4-5 years before launch; the 183 GHz
   radiometer failed on 18 April 1993 after 19 months of successful
   in-orbit operation.

   The IF signals, after amplification, are further frequency-converted to
   six spectral bands, each centered at 400 MHz with approximately 500 MHz
   instantaneous spectral bandwidth. These bands are input to six filter
   banks which split the signal into 15 separate filter channels,
   simultaneously measure the power in each of these channels, and
   digitize the resulting signals to pass along to UARS for transmission
   to the ground and data processing.

   All measurements are, under normal operation, performed continuously
   day and night. The instrument integration time is approximately 2
   seconds.

   MLS looks in a direction which is 90^o from the UARS orbital velocity,
   and the tangent point of the observation path (where the signals mostly
   originate) is 23 great-circle degrees away from the suborbital path of
   the satellite. The 57^o inclination of the UARS orbit thus allows MLS
   to perform measurements from 34^o on one side of the equator to 80^o on
   the other. UARS performs a 180^o `yaw maneuver' ten times per year,
   allowing MLS to alternate between views of northern and southern high
   latitudes at approximately 36-day intervals (this varies a few days
   through a yearly cycle). Local solar times at measurement locations do
   not vary appreciably with longitude on a given day, but can vary
   greately with latitude on a given day.

   The figures below show a photograph of UARS during ground tests before
   launch, and a sketch of UARS in orbit; MLS is seen in these figures
   near the righthand side of UARS.
   [uars_thermalvac_photo.gif] [uars_color_sketch.gif]

     * To top of this page describing UARS MLS instrument
     * To calendars of MLS daily status throughout UARS mission
     * To log of recent UARS MLS instrument operations
     * To MLS home page
     * To MLS scientific results page
     * To UARS MLS data page
     * To UARS Home Page

      This page maintained by Joe Waters (joe@mls.jpl.nasa.gov). Last updated 15
      November 1996.
