http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/suspiciousmail.htm


                            [cictranshead1.gif]
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page Fun Stuff About Us Page
                                  space
                     Suspicious Mail: What You Can Do
                                  space

   Image of a package and envelopes

   The recent news of anthrax sent through the mail to public figures has
   left consumers wondering if they are at risk and what to look for
   regarding suspicious packages and envelopes. The Centers for Disease
   Control and Prevention, the United States Postal Service, and the
   Federal Protective Service have published guidelines to inform citizens
   of what steps they should take when handling mail. It is important not
   to panic, because false alarms can overload emergency response
   systems-making it difficult for rescue and emergency staff to respond
   to legitimate concerns.

   The following guidelines will help you determine whether you should be
   concerned with the mail you handle and what action to take.
     * Things to look for that might suggest suspicious mail.
     * General precautions for mail handling.
     * How to handle suspicious mail.
     * Opened packages that contain suspicious materials.
     * Whom to contact if you think you have a suspicious mail piece.
     * Additional information.
     * Pass this information along to a friend.

   space

   Things to Look for That Might Suggest Suspicious Mail

       1. Excessive postage, no postage, or non-canceled postage.
       2. No return address or unfamiliar return address.
       3. Misspellings of common words, such as addressee names, title, or
          locations.
       4. Unexpected envelopes from foreign countries.
       5. Suspicious or threatening messages written on packages.
       6. Postmark showing different location than return address.
       7. Distorted handwriting, poorly typed addresses, or cut and paste
          lettering.
       8. Haphazardly wrapped packages or excessive use of tape, string, etc.
       9. Packages marked as "Fragile-Handle with Care," "Rush-Do Not Delay,"
          "Personal," or "Confidential."
      10. Rigid, uneven, irregular, oddly shaped or lopsided packages.
      11. Packages with soft spots, bulges, or excessive weight for their
          size.
      12. Protruding wires or aluminum foil.
      13. Powdery substance on the outside.
      14. Addressed to someone no longer with your organization or otherwise
          outdated.
      15. Strange odors, stains, or discolorations.
      16. Incorrect title (or titles), and no name.
      17. Visual distractions.
      18. Ticking sound.

      Back to top
   space

   Whom to Contact If You Think You Have A Suspicious Mail Piece

       1. Local hotline for public inquiries about suspicious mail (if
          available).
       2. Local law enforcement
       3. 911

      Back to top
   space

   Additional Information*

        * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
        * United States Postal Service
        * Federal Protective Service

      *If you click on these links, you are leaving FCIC's web site. Please
      bookmark us before you leave so you can return easily. FCIC is not
      responsible for the content of these web sites.

      Back to top
   space

    If you found this information helpful, share this link with a friend
                            and spread the word!
                      Enter recipient's e-mail address:
                          _________________________
                [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____________

      We will not retain or use this information for any other purpose.
   space

   General Precautions for Mail Handling

       1. Examine unopened envelopes and packages.
       2. If the envelope or package does not appear to be suspicious as
          outlined above, proceed to open mail.
       3. Use latex gloves and consider using other protective gear such as a
          mask when handling mail.
       4. Restrict access to mail to adults.

      Back to top
   space

   How to Handle Suspicious Mail

       1. DO NOT PANIC.
       2. Do not touch your eyes, nose, or any other part of your body.
       3. Place the envelope or package in a plastic bag or some other type
          of container to prevent leakage of contents. If you do not have a
          container, then cover the envelope or package with anything
          (clothing, paper, trash can, etc.) and do not remove this cover.
       4. Isolate the package by closing all windows and doors before
          leaving, and section off the area to prevent others from entering.
       5. Wash your hands with soap and water to prevent spreading.
       6. Shut off the ventilation system in the room and, if possible, in
          the building.
       7. Call 911 or your local law enforcement. They will contact the local
          public health authorities if necessary.
       8. List all people who had contact with the package. Give the list to
          both the local public health authorities so that proper
          instructions can be given for medical follow-up, and to law
          enforcement officials for further investigation.

      Back to top
   space

   For Opened Packages That Contain Suspicious Material

       1. DO NOT PANIC.
       2. Do not shake or empty the contents of the suspicious package.
       3. Do not try to clean up spilled contents with anything, and do not
          remove the contents.
       4. Do not touch your eyes, nose, or any other part of your body.
       5. Place the envelope or package in a plastic bag or some other type
          of container to prevent leakage of contents. If you do not have a
          container, then cover the envelope or package with anything
          (clothing, paper, trash can, etc.) and do not remove this cover.
       6. Isolate the package by closing all windows and doors before
          leaving, and section off the area to prevent others from entering.
       7. Wash your hands with soap and water to prevent spreading.
       8. Shut off the ventilation system in the room and, if possible, in
          the building.
       9. Call 911 or your local law enforcement. They will contact the local
       public health authorities if necessary.
   10. List all people who had contact with the package. Give the list to
       both the local public health authorities so that proper
       instructions can be given for medical follow-up, and to law
       enforcement officials for further investigation.
   11. Place all items worn when in contact with the suspected mail piece
       in plastic bags, keep them wherever you change your clothes, and
       have them available for law enforcement agents.
   12. Shower with soap and water as soon as practical (Do not use bleach
       or other disinfectant on your skin.)
   13. If prescribed medications by medical personnel, follow instructions
       and take them until instructed not to.

   Back to top

                                   space
       Site Map - Text Version - Privacy Policy - Security Statement
                                   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov

   {Back to FCIC's Main Page} Homepage
