http://allen.senate.gov/PressOffice/WhiteHouseTranscript091301.htm


                               [Masthead3.jpg]

                               [thinline.jpg]

      Senator Allen Addresses Reporters After Meeting With President on
                               Pentagon Attack

   September 13, 2001

   SENATOR ALLEN: Let me just say at the beginning--as they all said, I
   think it's--one of the things is I wanted to stay back and let all the
   folks, senators and members of Congress from Connecticut and New York
   and New Jersey, speak, because the damage and loss of life up there was
   horrendous.

   We have had, obviously, an attack on Virginia at the Pentagon. The
   plane that was hijacked from Virginia--from Dulles Airport had many
   Virginians on it, including someone who lives in our neighborhood.
   Also, the Pentagon is in Virginia, and I just came from the Pentagon.
   The Virginia delegation just visited the Pentagon to see it up front,
   and the extensiveness of the damage there.

   When there are disasters, the federal funding comes to help local and
   state agencies that have no way to handle it. For example, the
   Arlington police are having 16-hour shifts. Their shifts are 16 hours.
   There are rescue efforts from those fire and rescue squads from
   Arlington County, from Fairfax County, from Alexandria, from Prince
   William County, some from Loudoun, from the town of Leesburg, as well
   as some from Tennessee helping out because so many are up in New York
   where the devastation is even greater.

   So at this point, we are just using best estimates; putting a
   number--whether you put $20 billion, $40 billion. If it somehow is less
   than that, I'd be surprised, but if it's more, we will do as Americans
   what is necessary to support local governments, state governments, as
   they're trying to cope with the wrack and the ruin and the loss of
   life, as well as, for the military officers, in those families there
   will be benefits, but also for those families who've been hit by this
   murderous terrorist attack, we want to help them as well, and the local
   governments and the state taxpayers as well, which simply do not have
   the resources to handle the search, the rescue, the medical and other
   transportation needs and infrastructure damage from these attacks. So
   the amount in Virginia, I'll say to you, we don't know; no one really
   knows. I know as governor when we'd have floods or tornado, two or
   three days after you wouldn't know the true figures.

   But what is important here is that Virginians, New Yorkers,
   Californians, people all across the country, no matter what party, no
   matter what philosophy, are all united to help out our folks
   domestically here, and there's that shared resolve to get after the
   perpetrators and have very severe, commensurate justice for them for
   these murderous acts.

   QUESTION: Does the president have the same resolve to make Virginia
   whole that he expressed very specifically in New York?

   ALLEN: Yes. Yes. Right. The New Yorkers, I understand, have the
   concerns they have. The president today--and I thank President Bush for
   declaring Virginia a disaster area, in particular, of course, Arlington
   County, the jurisdiction in which the Pentagon is located.

   So Virginia, and Arlington County in particular, have been declared a
   disaster area. Doing that means money, but it also helps with logistics
   as well on some of the regulations that would be suspended to make sure
   that we are doing everything we can to secure that area.

   And indeed the danger is not over. The danger is not over for the
   workers. Having visited the folks who are going in there with masks
   into the Pentagon, there's asbestos in the air. There are other gases
   and problems that could arise.

   And so this is a very fragile building. It could collapse. We saw the
   collapse obviously in the buildings in New York. The Pentagon's not as
   tall, but it's just as precarious for workers to be wandering around
   trying to get into the cement which is much more brittle and fragile.
   So it's still a very dangerous situation for those search and rescue
   workers at the Pentagon.
   Thank you. I've got to get off to a vote.

                                     ###

                       Office of Senator George Allen
                  Russell Senate Office Building, Room 204
                           Washington, D.C. 20510
                            Phone: (202) 224-4024
                             Fax: (202) 224-5432
                                Send us email


                              [HomeButton.jpg]
                          [PressOfficeButton.jpg]
                           [DistrictOffices.jpg]
                          [ConsituentServices.jpg]
                            [GeorgeAllenBio.jpg]
                              [HTTFButton.jpg]
