http://boat.iac.wa.gov/shellfish.htm

           IAC Home | Washington State Tourism | About This Website
   Washington Dept. of Fish & Wildlife | Washington State Parks | Washington
                         Dept. of Licensing | Email Us

   Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation

                                                             Boating Web Site

   Image linking to Boating Web home page.
                                Boating Home

   Washington Accessible Outdoor Recreation Guide
                       Washington Boating Information
                 Marine Biotoxin Information/Beach Closures
    Clark County Boating Safety Site | Sea Grant Marine Advisory Services
                        US Coast Guard Boater Safety

                Separating line between page header and body.

                Page Index:

     Shellfish Harvesting Regulations

     Beach Ownership

     Treaty Tribes

     Beach Health Classifications

     Shellfish and Human Health

     Steps to prevent the Pollution of Shellfish

     Safe Handling, Storage and Cooking of Shellfish

     Nuisance Species

     Fires on the Beach

     Common Shellfish of Puget Sound

                               [3grlines.gif]


   [uparrow.gif] Harvesting Regulations:

        A Personal Use Shellfish and Seaweed License is required for most
        people before they take shellfish from public beaches or waters.

        You must follow the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife
        shellfish regulations. Consult the sport regulation pamphlet for
        information on license requirements, seasons, harvest limits, size
        and gear restrictions, and other regulations. Check for changes by
        calling the emergency shellfish regulation hotline (360-796-3215).

        It is extremely important to refill the holes you create when
        digging for shellfish. Leaving holes in the beach can create a
        safety hazard for others and may suffocate shellfish that are unable
        to extend their siphons to the surface. Shellfish left exposed on
        the beach are also at risk from predators.


   [uparrow.gif] Beach Ownership:

        Many Puget Sound beaches are privately owned. Be sure to avoid
        trespassing on private property. The absence of posted signs does
        not necessarily mean that the tidelands are public.


   [uparrow.gif] Treaty Tribes:

        Fish and shellfish resources have long been important to Western
        Washington Indian tribes for commercial, cultural, and/or
        subsistence purposes. Under federal treaties of 1854 and 1855,
        Washington tribes reserved the right to harvest fish and shellfish
        at all usual and accustomed grounds and stations. Recent court
        decisions have upheld tribal rights up to 50% of harvestable
        resources.

        The tribes and state agencies work cooperatively to manage shellfish
        resources by developing joint management agreements and plans.
        Tribal and state biologists also participate in shellfish research
        and enhancement projects. Each tribe sets and enforces fishery
        regulations for its fishers or harvesters. Harvest may be for
        commercial, subsistence, or ceremonial uses. Tribal regulations may
        differ from state regulations as to gear types, harvest
        restrictions, harvest limits, and dates of harvest.

        Please contact the Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission
        (360-438-1180) for information on tribal shellfish rights or
        fisheries.


   [uparrow.gif] Beach Health Classifications:

        Classifications for recreational shellfish beaches are provided by
        the Washington Department of Health. Classifications are based on a
        survey to evaluate shoreline pollution sources and nearshore water
        quality. The pollution sources evaluated through the shoreline
        survey process include on-site sewage systems, animal keeping
        practices, industrial and urban runoff, and other contamination
        sources.

        Water quality measurements are primarily evaluated for the presence
        of bacteria but may include other contaminants. Because conditions
        may change rapidly, always check with the local health department
        prior to harvesting.

        These classifications apply to molluscan bivalve shellfish such as
        oysters, clams and mussels. The classifications are not intended for
        crab and shrimp since they migrate in and out of harvesting areas.
        The maps in this booklet contain the following beach
        classifications:
        * OPEN
             + Beaches/areas always meet the state public health standards
               and are approved for recreational shellfish harvest.
        * CONDITIONAL
             + Beaches/areas sometimes meet the state public health standard,
               but often must be closed due to pollution from sources such as
               rain storm runoff or malfunctioning sewage treatment plants.
        * CLOSED
             + Beaches never meet the state public health standards and are
               always unsafe for recreational shellfish harvest.

        Some beaches have not been evaluated for classification. Shellfish
        harvesting is not advised in certain urban and industrialized areas
        of Puget Sound because of potential pollution problems.


   [uparrow.gif] Shellfish and Human Health:

        Bivalve shellfish, such as clams, oysters, mussels, and scallops
        filter their food from the water. Contaminants, when present in the
        water, may concentrate in shellfish tissues making them unsafe to
        eat. There are many different types of contaminants that can be
        concentrated by shellfish:
        * Marine biotoxins
        * Bacteria and viruses
        * Chemicals

        Shellfish areas are routinely monitored by state and local health
        departments, tribes, and volunteers. Even though a beach may be
        closed due to pollution or a marine biotoxin event, the shellfish
        will usually look healthy and normal. However, they are unsafe to
        eat.

   Marine Biotoxins

        In the past, shellfish poisoning events such as Paralytic Shellfish
        Poisoning (PSP), have been inaccurately called red tide. This term
        is wrong because the color of the water does not indicate whether
        toxins are present. In addition, several organisms and toxins have
        been found to cause illness. Instead of red tide, the term marine
        biotoxin is now used.

        Outbreaks of naturally occurring marine biotoxins in Puget Sound are
        unpredictable, usually occurring when environmental conditions and
        other factors are favorable to the growth of organisms that produce
        the toxins. All filter feeders and animals that eat them, such as
        crabs and snails, may concentrate toxins in their bodies.

        Blooms occur rapidly, so make sure to call the Marine Biotoxin
        Hotline (1-800-562-5632) or check the Marine Biotoxin Bulletin at
        http://www.doh.wa.gov/ehp/sf/biotoxin.htm before harvesting
        shellfish. It is important to note that biotoxins are not destroyed
        by cooking. There are no known cures for paralytic shellfish
        poisoning and domoic acid poisoning.

   Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP)

        PSP is produced by a microscopic planktonic organism growing
        naturally in Puget Sound. The organism, Alexandrium catenella,
        produces toxins that, when concentrated in the shellfish can cause
        death to humans and other warm blooded animals that eat the
        shellfish. Certain shellfish may be toxic longer than others.
        Therefore, a PSP closure may be for all shellfish or just certain
        species. It is important to note which shellfish are closed to
        harvest when calling the biotoxin hotline.

        Symptoms may include tingling of the lips, tongue, and fingertips,
        burning, numbness, drowsiness, incoherent speech, and respiratory
        paralysis. If you experience these symptoms after eating shellfish,
        seek medical help immediately.

   Domoic Acid

        Domoic acid is a toxic substance produced by a microscopic marine
        organism called Pseudonitszchia. Human illness known as Amnesic
        Shellfish Poisoning (ASP) or Domoic Acid Poisoning (DAP) is caused
        by eating fish or shellfish containing this toxin.

        Symptoms may include vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, confusion,
        memory loss, disorientation, and seizure. Severe cases may result in
        coma and possibly death. If you experience these symptoms after
        eating shellfish, seek medical help immediately.

   Bacteria and Viruses

        Shellfish living in water contaminated by human or animal sewage can
        accumulate bacteria and viruses. These pathogens do not harm the
        shellfish, but may cause illness in humans.

        Thorough cooking of infected shellfish may reduce the number of
        bacteria and viruses. However, the best protection from contaminated
        shellfish is harvesting from clean areas.

        There are also a variety of naturally occurring marine bacteria that
        can cause illnesses. Vibrio, a group of bacteria found in Puget
        Sound, can contaminate shellfish the same way as bacteria from
        pollution. Vibrios are more common in warmer months. Therefore, fish
        and shellfish are more likely to be contaminated during the summer.
        Symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting,
        headache, fever, and chills. Thorough cooking is the only way to
        prevent Vibrio infection.

   Chemicals

        Shellfish near highly populated or industrial areas, sewer or storm
        water outfalls, or marinas may contain toxic levels of chemicals.
        Some of these areas are indicated on the maps.

        In many areas, warnings are posted on beaches where shellfish
        harvesting is not recommended. However, the absence of a warning
        sign does not mean the shellfish are safe to eat. Contact the local
        health department for current information.


   [uparrow.gif] Steps to Prevent the Pollution of Shellfish:

        Restoring the environment to its natural balance is possible with
        your help. Keep these tips handy, and take as many of these steps as
        you can to help limit pollution and protect our shellfish and
        beaches. Get involved in cleanup activities in your community, and
        you will see how far your actions can reach.

   Maintain Your Septic System

        Failing onsite sewage systems are one of the top causes of shellfish
        contamination in Puget Sound. Regular maintenance can identify and
        avoid problems before your system fails. Maintenance is cheaper than
        replacing your system or a potential decline in property values
        suffered in areas with deteriorated water quality.

        Have your system inspected regularly and pump your tank when needed.
        Check with your local health department to find out how often.

        Keep a record of your tank and drain field location. This will make
        inspections and pumping easier.

   Protect Your Drainfield.

        Keep automobiles and all heavy equipment off the drainfield.

        Use caution and planning when planting trees and shrubs. Their roots
        may clog or damage parts of your system.

        Regularly mown grass helps your drain field function properly.

        Don't cover the soil over the drain field with plastic, asphalt or
        concrete — a drainfield needs air to work best.

   Reduce the Flow

        Excess water can reduce an on-site sewage system's ability to absorb
        and treat wastewater. Contact your local health department to learn
        how to reduce unnecessary flows from: downspout drainage from
        rooftop gutters, basement sump pumps, backflush from water softener
        systems, leaking toilets, dripping faucets, and hot tub drainage.

        Conserve water at home — spread out laundry loads, dishwashing, and
        other water uses throughout the day and week.

        Consider using water-saving models when installing new appliances or
        plumbing fixtures.

   Dispose of Household Items Carefully

        Do not dispose of toxic items through your on-site sewage system —
        this includes paints, varnishes, acids, and some medicines.

        Do not dispose of inert items through your on-site sewage system —
        this includes cat litter, diapers, ash tray contents, dental floss,
        and paper other than toilet paper.

        Use household cleaners sparingly or consider a less toxic
        alternative.

        Use garbage disposals infrequently — consider composting.

        Contact your local health department, Cooperative Extension, or Sea
        Grant office for more information on the proper care and feeding of
        your on-site sewage system.

   Use Best Management Practices With Your Livestock

        Livestock, even just a few horses, can be a significant source of
        pollution if their wastes are not properly managed.

        Fence streams to manage animal access.

        Maintain minimal numbers of livestock to prevent pasture damage.

        Install sewage lagoons to treat waste.

        Plant groundcover on pastures to treat and reduce runoff in the
        rainy season.

        Install gutters on your buildings and channel the water away from
        livestock areas.

        Contact your local conservation district for the best ways to
        prevent water contamination and soil erosion.

   Clean Boating Practices

        Boat wastes can be a considerable source of contamination to
        shellfish harvesting areas.

        Small boats should have a portable toilet on board and larger boats
        should have properly operating sanitation devices.

        All sewage holding devices should be emptied at a pumpout or dump
        station — never pumped overboard.

        Use an oil absorbent pad in the boat bilge to absorb leaked oil.

        Keep oil separate from other waste fluids. Recycle the oil at an
        approved disposal site.

        Catch the paint scrapings and droppings with a drop cloth and never
        dispose of them overboard.

        Stow your trash… don't throw it overboard.

        The maps in this booklet show locations of public boat pumpout
        stations. Many private marinas also have pumpout stations. The
        Washington

        State Parks Boaters Environmental Education Program (360-902-8511)
        can provide you with an up-to date list and guidelines for proper
        boat sewage disposal.

   Maintain Your Automobile

        Just a drop of oil, antifreeze, or lubricant from a leaking car can
        contaminate gallons of water. If a roadway is near a shellfish bed,
        the pollutants on its surface can be washed into the Sound, close
        productive shellfish beds, and harm other marine organisms.

        Repair leaks quickly, even the smallest leak impacts water quality.

        Never dump automotive wastes down a storm drain — always pour into
        containers, never mix them, and recycle if possible.

        Consider taking public transportation or carpooling.

        Call the Recycle Hotline for the nearest recycling facility
        1-800-RECYCLE.

   Properly Dispose of Garbage

        Garbage on the beach is unsightly, against the law, and can injure
        or kill wildlife. Proper disposal of all trash is essential to the
        health and safety of the marine environment.


   [uparrow.gif] Safe Handling, Storage, and Cooking:

   Handling Shellfish

        Keep shellfish cool after harvesting. If the temperature of
        shellfish is allowed to rise, bacteria will grow and the shellfish
        will become unsafe to eat.

   Storage of Shellfish

        If you intend to store your shellfish, do it properly. Here are some
        safe storage guidelines:

        Fresh Shellfish in the Shell: All fresh shellfish should be stored
        in an open container in the refrigerator with a damp towel on top to
        maintain humidity. Never store shellfish in water. They will die and
        may spoil. Shellfish that are gaping open and do not close when
        tapped are dead. They should be thrown out.

        Storage times for shellfish vary:
        * Shellfish that can close their shells completely can be stored for
          up to seven days. This includes oysters, littlenecks, butter clams,
          and cockles.
        * Shellfish that can not completely close their shells can be stored
          for three to four days. This includes horse clams, softshell clams,
          geoducks, and razor clams.
        * Mussels can be stored for three to four days.

        Shucked Shellfish. Shellfish removed from their shells should keep
        in a refrigerator for up to three days. In a freezer they should
        keep for up to three months.

        Cooked Shellfish. Cooked shellfish should keep in a refrigerator for
        up to two days and in a freezer up to three months.

        Thawed Shellfish. Shellfish taken from the freezer and thawed in a
        refrigerator should keep for up to two days. Shellfish that have
        been frozen and thawed must not be refrozen.

   Cooking Shellfish

        There are many ways to prepare shellfish. Below are some recommended
        methods.

        Use small pots when boiling or steaming shellfish. If too many are
        cooked in the pot, the ones in the middle may not get thoroughly
        cooked. Discard any bivalve shellfish that do not open.

        Live bivalve shellfish should be boiled in water for three to five
        minutes or steamed in a preheated steamer for four to nine minutes
        after the shell has opened.

        Live oysters in the shell should be baked at least ten minutes at
        450 degrees.

        Shucked oysters should be cooked for at least three minutes in the
        following ways:

        Boiled or simmered
        Fried in 375 degree oil
        Broiled three inches from the heat

        Shrimp should be cooked for eight minutes once the water has
        returned to a full boil.

        Crab should be cooked for a minimum of 15 minutes once the water has
        returned to a full boil.


   [uparrow.gif] Nuisance Species:

        Many unwanted species have been unknowingly brought to Puget Sound.
        People should not transport marine organisms from one area to
        another. Boaters can unknowingly transfer spores, larvae and whole
        animals into a new area in engines, bilges or on trailers and
        fishing gear. Carefully wash the inside and outside of your boat and
        fishing gear with freshwater before placing the boat or your gear
        back in salt water.

        For example, Spartina, an aggressive salt water weed, is
        establishing itself throughout the Puget Sound region and could
        destroy shellfish beds if not properly controlled. For more
        information about Spartina and other nuisance species, contact
        Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife or Washington Sea Grant
        Program.


   [uparrow.gif] Fires on the Beach:

        Beach fires can be a wonderful part of the beach experience;
        however, please realize that driftwood fires are a genuine concern
        to firefighters and local residents. Because of these dangers, beach
        fires are possible only under strictly controlled circumstances.

        Before lighting ANY fire, call 1-800-323-BURN for instructions
        specific to that day and location.

        Recreational fires require a permit unless they are:

        In a fire pit approved by the DNR or
        In a camp stove or barbecue; or
        Placed on bare soil, gravel bars, beaches, green fields, or other
        nonflammable areas; and smaller than four feet across.

        Do not burn garbage or other materials that emit dense smoke or
        create offensive odors. Before leaving the beach make certain your
        fire is completely out. Remember, you are legally responsible for
        any fire damage you cause. To report a fire, call the Department of
        Natural Resources Fire Hotline at 1-800-562-6010.


   [uparrow.gif] Common Shellfish of Puget Sound:

        The following are descriptions of shellfish commonly harvested in
        Puget Sound. Be sure to consult the current Washington Department of
        Fish and Wildlife sport fishing regulation pamphlet for information
        on license requirements, seasons, harvest limits, size and gear
        restrictions, and other regulations.

   Crabs

        The two main species of crab that are recreationally harvested in
        Washington State are Dungeness and red rock crab. Crab are commonly
        taken with crab pots but are also taken using ring nets, star traps,
        dip nets, and by wading or SCUBA diving.

   Dungeness Crab          Picture of a Dungeness Crab.

        Dungeness crabs have a purple-tinged orange-brown shell with
        white-tipped claws and usually reach six to seven inches across the
        back. They are mainly found north of Seattle, throughout Hood Canal,
        and along the coast. Dungeness are often found in muddy areas, but
        prefer sandy bottoms in or near eelgrass beds. They range from the
        low intertidal down to 750 feet.

   Red Rock Crab          Picture of a Red Rock Crab.

        Red rock crabs have heavy, brick-red shells and black-tipped claws.
        They are smaller than Dungeness crab, ranging in size from five to
        seven inches. They are found throughout Puget Sound and prefer rocky
        bottoms with little silt, often hidden under rocks or partly buried
        under gravel or mud. They range from the mid-intertidal down to 260
        feet.

   Shrimp          Picture of a Shrimp.

        The most common recreationally harvested shrimp in Washington are
        the spot, coonstripe, and humpback. Shrimp are found throughout
        Puget Sound and off the coast, but the most popular sport fishery
        for spot shrimp is in Hood Canal. The size of shrimp varies by
        species. Spot shrimp are the largest, ranging between six to 10
        inches. Shrimp are usually caught using baited shrimp pots placed in
        30 to 300 feet of water. Shrimp are found in a variety of habitats,
        depending on the species, from steep rocky areas to flat muddy
        bottoms.

   Mussels          Picture of a Mussel.

        Mussels have oblong, blue-black or brown shells and are usually
        found in dense mats attached by fine threads. The blue, or "bay",
        mussel of Puget Sound can grow to four inches in length. The
        California mussel, found on the open coast and parts of the Strait
        of Juan de Fuca, can grow to over six inches. Mussels are typically
        found attached to rocks or wooden structures at or near the low-tide
        line.

   Oysters          Picture of an Oyster.

        Oysters have chalky-white shells that are often distorted to conform
        to the shape of the object to which the oyster is attached. Oysters
        are often found in clusters attached to one another or to an object
        such as a rock or shell.

   Pacific Oysters

        The Pacific oyster is now the principle commercial oyster in the
        Pacific Northwest. They have fluted irregular ridges and can grow up
        to ten inches in length. Most recreational oyster harvest occurs in
        Hood Canal. Oysters may become soft and milky during the late summer
        spawning season. Some recreational harvesters may find these
        undesirable to eat.

   Olympia Oysters

        The tiny Olympia oyster is the only oyster native to Puget Sound.
        Prized for their unique flavor, they were once common and of
        commercial importance. They were seriously depleted in the 1950s,
        but now appear to be rebounding in areas with improved water
        quality. They can reach three inches in length and are relatively
        flat in comparison to Pacific oysters. Olympia oysters usually
        inhabit low intertidal areas or small tidal channels where the
        oysters are covered with water at low tide.

   Clams

        Clams are one of the most recreationally harvested shellfish in
        Washington. A variety of clams are found in the intertidal area and
        are dug by hand using forks, rakes, or shovels.

   Native Littleneck Clams          Picture of a Littleneck Clam.

        Native littleneck clams have white-gray shells with well-defined
        circular rings and radiating ridges. They can grow up to three
        inches in length and are often referred to as steamers (the common
        method of cooking). Native littleneck clams are rounder than Manila
        clams and have no purple coloration on the inside of the shell. They
        are found on gravel/sand beaches in the lower half of the intertidal
        area and buried to a depth of 6 inches.

   Manila Clams          Picture of a Manila Clam.

        Manila clams, also called Japanese littleneck clams, have oblong,
        slightly colored, and patterned shells with purple staining inside.
        The shell, like the native littleneck clam, has concentric rings and
        radiating ridges. They can grow up to three inches in length and are
        found higher in the intertidal area than the native littleneck clam.
        Manila clams are found on gravel/sand beaches, 3 to 6 inches below
        the surface.

   Butter Clams          Picture of a Butter Clam.

        Butter clams usually have chalky-white shells with concentric rings.
        They lack the radiating ridges found on the littleneck clam shells.
        The siphon, or neck, can retract completely into the shell. They can
        grow to five inches in length and are common in the middle to lower
        intertidal area. The butter clam is found in sandy/gravelly mud at
        depths between 8 and 12 inches.

   Cockles          Picture of a Cockle.

        Cockles are easily recognized by their prominent, evenly spaced,
        radiating ridges fanning out from the hinge area to the shell
        margin. They have a mottled, light brown shell and can grow to five
        inches. Cockles are found intertidally near or on the surface of
        sand/gravel beaches throughout Puget Sound.

   Horse Clams          Picture of a Horse Clam.

        Horse clams have chalky-white shells with yellow-brown skin-like
        patches. The horse clam is the only Washington clam whose siphon is
        tipped with leathery flaps, often with algae or barnacles attached.
        The siphon cannot be completely withdrawn into the shell. The shell
        can reach a length of eight inches. Horse clams are found in the
        lower intertidal areas of sand/gravel beaches buried one to three
        feet.

   Softshell Clams         Picture of a SoftShell Clam

        Softshell clams have chalky-white, fragile shells that are rounded
        at the foot end and tapered at the siphon end. The siphon cannot be
        completely withdrawn into the shell. They are often mistaken for
        small horse clams. Softshell clams average four to six inches in
        length. They are found in mud/sand beaches near the mouths of
        rivers, buried to a depth of eight to 14 inches.

   Geoducks ("Goo-ee-duck")          Picture of a Geoduck.

        Geoducks are the world's largest burrowing clam and can reach an age
        of 140 to 160 years. Geoduck shells are chalky-white and may reach
        nine inches in length, but do not completely close. Their long
        siphon lacks the leather-like flaps of the horse clam. Geoducks are
        found on sand/gravel to sand/mud beaches, buried two to three feet
        deep. While they are less common intertidally, they are abundant
        subtidally.

   Other Shellfish

        Other types of shellfish commonly harvested in Puget Sound include:
        octopus, pink and spiny scallops, sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and
        squid.

        Recreational harvest of abalone has been closed the past several
        years because of declining numbers. Please review the Washington
        Department of Fish and Wildlife sport fishing regulation pamphlet
        for seasons and harvest limits.

                Separating line between page body and footer.


                             Top | Boating Home


This site brought to you by:


   IAC Logo

   Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation
      1111 Washington Street SE
      PO Box 40917
      Olympia, Washington 98504-0917

   Telephone - (360) 902-3000
   FAX - (360) 902-3026
   TDD - (360) 902-1996
   E-Mail - Info@iac.wa.gov
   Web - www.wa.gov/iac


   Washington State Tourism Office Logo

   Washington State Tourism Office
      101 General Administration Bldg
      PO Box 42500
      Olympia, Washington 98504-2500

   Telephone - (800) 544-1800
   FAX - (360) 753-4470
   TDD - (800) 748-2399
   E-Mail - info@tourism.wa.gov
   Web - www.tourism.wa.gov


                           Access Washington Logo
