http://pacer.njd.uscourts.gov/njdc/hbody.htm

                       Welcome to the Web Site for the

                               [NJTITLE1.GIF]


                   Honorable John W. Bissell, Chief Judge

                      William T. Walsh, Clerk of Court



   The United States District Court for the District of New Jersey was
   established in 1789 and serves 21 counties located throughout northern
   and southern New Jersey. There are eighteen active judgeships in the
   district. Four senior judges are also assigned cases. There are nine
   full-time magistrate judges who serve the district. Court is held in
   three divisions: Camden, Trenton and Newark. (Early History)

                               [bar29red.gif]

               [goldstar.gif] MISSION STATEMENT [goldstar.gif]

    The Clerk's Office of the United States District Court is a service,
      record keeping and collection and disbursement organization that
   provides information and serves as a liaison to the Court, Bar, public
                       and other government agencies.

                            Our Mission is ......

   To provide exceptional customer service in a courteous, respectful and
     expeditious manner to the Court, Court Staff, Bar, public and other
     government agencies; and to accurately and cost effectively create,
       maintain, manage, disseminate and preserve court records while
              providing convenient access to this information.

                               [bar29red.gif]

               This web site has been up since November 1999.

   Powered by counter.bloke.com Since 5-8-2000
   * If you select the link, you will be leaving the web page of the U.S.
   District Court of New Jersey. The hypertext link contains information
   created and maintained by other private organizations. These links are
   provided for the users convenience. The Court does not control or
   guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of this
   information. The inclusion of the links is not intended to endorse or
   express view points on these outside sites or organizations sponsored
   by the sites.


    This site is maintained by the U.S. District Court - District of New
                           Jersey, IT Department.
                       Last updated: November 29, 2001
