http://www.fda.gov/fdac/features/2001/501_food.html

                                             Email this Page
                                                To a Friend email a friend

   U.S. Food and Drug Administration
   FDA Consumer magazine
   September-October 2001
   Table of Contents


Food For Thought: An Interview With Joseph A. Levitt

   by Raymond Formanek Jr.

   Americans enjoy one of the safest food supplies in the world.

   Despite that fact, diseases caused by food in the United States are
   responsible for an estimated 76 million cases of gastrointestinal
   illnesses, 325,000 illnesses resulting in hospitalizations, and 5,000
   deaths each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention.

   As director of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food
   Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN), Joe Levitt is responsible for
   directing programs aimed at ensuring the safety of the nation's food
   supply. Under Levitt's leadership, CFSAN is responsible for a wide
   range of other programs, including food and color additives, food and
   nutrition labeling, dietary supplements, and cosmetics.

   Levitt and the nearly 900 CFSAN scientists, researchers, regulatory
   personnel, and support staff oversee products that account for nearly
   80 percent of what Americans spend on food. Levitt recently discussed
   food safety and other current topics such as bioengineered foods and
   imports with FDA Consumer.

   Q: Food safety remains a top priority with the Center for Food Safety
   and Applied Nutrition. What are the major accomplishments in the
   center's food safety program? Where are the center's food safety
   resources focused?

   A: When I first took this job three and a half years ago, I said our
   top priorities would be: food safety, food safety and food safety. If
   you compare where we are today on food safety to just three or four
   years ago, you will see that we've made fundamental changes that
   increase consumer protection.

   Food safety is a compelling public health issue. As part of the
   Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the FDA's food safety
   programs affect every American, every single day.

   The FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) within
   HHS, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and our state and
   local counterparts, have worked to significantly strengthen the food
   safety system in the United States. Together, we have implemented
   stronger prevention programs, new surveillance systems, faster outbreak
   response, risk-based research and risk assessment, and expanded
   education programs.

   Virtually everything we do in the food safety program has a strong
   scientific underpinning. We work hard to make our policies data-driven
   and science-driven so that they stand the test of time. Our credibility
   comes, in large part, from the fact that objective, scientific evidence
   will lead us in the right direction.

   Prevention is the foundation of our food safety program. The FDA has
   put several new prevention programs in place. We now have prevention
   programs for seafood, juice, fresh fruits and vegetables, and sprouts,
   and we are developing one for eggs. But, we also realize that
   prevention efforts will never be able to eliminate all diseases caused
   by food. Therefore, with our federal and state partners, we've put into
   place a much faster and more effective system of early detection and
   containment that we call "outbreak response." If there is an outbreak
   of foodborne illness, we now are able to jump on that case much more
   quickly--much more effectively--and save lives.

   Probably the single most significant scientific achievement in food
   safety over the last five years is something that's referred to as DNA
   fingerprinting. What that means is we now have the scientific tools to
   take a sample from one patient, and see if the bacteria's DNA
   "fingerprint" matches that of another patient, or food, to identify a
   common source of infection. In other words, DNA fingerprinting speeds
   the "detective work" to determine when an outbreak has occurred. This
   enables us to more quickly respond to the outbreak, and prevent more
   people from getting sick. DNA fingerprinting is literally saving lives.
   The CDC has been instrumental in converting this new technology into a
   nationwide surveillance system called "Pulse Net."

   In terms of resources, we have redirected our entire field inspection
   force to really focus on those food products that present consumers
   with the greatest risk for contamination with potentially harmful
   bacteria. Starting this year, we are conducting annual inspections of
   every company in the United States that makes one of these high-risk
   products so that we can ensure that prevention procedures are adequate
   and in place. This same strategy applies to imported food that arrives
   at U.S. borders. We conducted a survey of 1,000 samples of imported
   fruits and vegetables to identify which products were at highest risk
   for contamination. We then targeted our border surveillance to those
   high-risk products. We are now following up with a similar survey of
   domestic fruits and vegetables to help target our efforts inside the
   United States.

   The bottom line is we are focusing on the highest risks, and we are
   targeting our efforts to be sure that we have them focused on where
   they do the most good for the American consumer.

   Q: Despite the stringent measures already taken to protect people and
   cattle from "mad cow disease," some say that more needs to be done to
   keep nervous system tissue from affected cattle out of the U.S. food
   supply. Is the FDA considering additional steps to ensure that foods
   remain free from prion contamination?

   A: While we have no evidence that bovine spongiform encephalopathy,
   commonly called "mad cow disease," is in the U.S. cattle herd, all of
   us must stay vigilant to be sure that we keep it out of this country,
   if at all possible. Starting seven years ago, the FDA put in place a
   series of programs that are designed to help minimize the risk of mad
   cow disease entering the United States. Over the past year, we have
   been getting reports from around the world that the disease has spread
   into some countries where it hadn't been found before. We, like
   virtually every other country in the world, are taking another look at
   all our programs to see if there are any new safeguards we need to put
   in place based on this new information.

   We continue to work hand-in-hand with the U.S. Department of
   Agriculture to ensure that those guarding our borders have a complete
   listing of any food, supplement, or cosmetic products that may need to
   be screened before coming into the country. In addition, we continually
   re-evaluate our regulations to see if there are areas that can and
   should be strengthened. The bottom line is we want to take any steps
   that we can and should take to ensure that mad cow disease stays out of
   this country and out of any of our foods, supplements, or cosmetics.

   Q: Despite persistent concerns about bioengineered crops, they are
   spreading so rapidly that it has become nearly impossible for consumers
   to avoid them. What steps is the FDA taking to ensure that
   bioengineered foods and animal feeds are as safe as their conventional
   counterparts?

   A: The issue of bioengineered foods certainly has captured the public's
   attention over the last couple of years. In fact, there was so much
   interest that the FDA decided to hold three public meetings around the
   country on this issue. I chaired one of those meetings and we got a lot
   of feedback from them. I think the bottom line is that the public wants
   to make sure that the government is looking out for them and
   scrutinizing these products to ensure their safety. That's a legitimate
   issue. What we've done at the FDA is gone back and looked at our
   processes in light of that feedback.

   In doing so, we decided to make changes that would further strengthen
   our program. Earlier this year, we proposed stronger regulations for
   food derived from biotechnology that would do two basic things: First,
   these regulations would require that all new foods derived from
   biotechnology be reviewed by the FDA before they go on the market.
   While this has been occurring on a voluntary basis, we want to be sure
   that the public has confidence in knowing that this will be a legal
   requirement, and that the FDA will ensure that any bioengineered foods
   are as safe as their conventional counterparts. Second, we proposed to
   increase the openness or transparency of the process so that consumers
   would have more access to what products we are reviewing, what safety
   data has been submitted on these products, what decisions we are
   making, and the reasons behind the decisions. That proposal has had a
   public comment period, and we are now evaluating those comments and
   developing final regulations. I believe that stronger regulations for
   bioengineered foods will ensure that consumers have continued
   confidence in the safety of the U.S. food supply.

   Q: The FDA recently issued a health alert suggesting that pregnant
   women and women of childbearing age avoid four species of
   fish--swordfish, king mackerel, shark and tilefish--because of
   potential methylmercury contamination. Fish and seafood are an
   important part of a healthy diet. What steps have been taken by the FDA
   to ensure seafood is safe to eat?

   A: The first prevention program put into place by the FDA was aimed at
   seafood safety. It's called Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
   or HACCP (há-sip). HACCP focuses on identifying and preventing hazards
   that could cause foodborne illness rather than relying simply on
   spot-checks of manufacturing processes or end-product testing. What
   this means is that seafood processors need to evaluate their systems
   and see where the real sources of contamination are. They should ask
   themselves: What are the potential hazards? Where are the "critical
   points" that need controls to limit those hazards? Then they must put
   in place a monitoring program to ensure that the hazards are, in fact,
   being properly controlled.

   HACCP is the cornerstone of our science-based, modern food safety
   system. It actually is based on a system developed for NASA to ensure
   safe food for astronauts. After the FDA put in place HACCP for seafood,
   the U.S. Department of Agriculture implemented a HACCP program for meat
   and poultry. And the FDA is putting HACCP in place next year for juice
   products. So this really is the cornerstone of a modern prevention
   system. That's the overview.

   Now, what have we done recently? What we have found is, as with any
   program, it's good to start looking at the big picture--but then you've
   got to start homing in on where the biggest problems are. This year we
   issued what we called a "mid-course correction" to our seafood HACCP
   program. We wanted to be sure we were devoting our time to those
   seafood products that potentially--and I emphasize potentially--could
   create the most serious health problems for consumers. Those are
   seafood products that could contain either harmful bacteria or
   histamines that cause allergic-type reactions. We want to be sure we
   inspect processors of the "high risk" products more intensely and make
   sure they have adequate HACCP systems in place.

   We also are focusing on areas where particular groups of consumers may
   be vulnerable. Along these lines we issued an alert this year for
   pregnant women and women of childbearing age who may become pregnant to
   avoid four kinds of seafood: shark, swordfish, king mackerel and
   tilefish. Those are the fish with the highest levels of methylmercury,
   a naturally occurring marine toxin. A steady diet that contains foods
   with high levels of methylmercury could have harmful effects on an
   unborn child. We're taking a "better safe than sorry" approach here.
   And we've tried to get a strong warning out to women who are pregnant,
   and to women of childbearing age who may become pregnant, to avoid
   these kinds of fish to protect their unborn children.

   Methymercury is a good example of how the breadth of the FDA's food
   safety program is expanding. While our food safety program over the
   last several years has focused on foodborne illness associated with
   bacteria, we are expanding the program to address chemical,
   environmental and physical hazards, as well. Typically, these hazards
   tend to be of a more chronic nature than bacterial hazards, but they
   are still very important.

   Q: Imported foods, everything from Swiss chocolate to fresh produce
   from South America, continue to flow into the United States at
   ever-increasing rates. How does the FDA ensure that such foods are
   wholesome and of the same quality as domestically produced products?

   A: Our goal in regulating imported foods is clear. We need to ensure
   that the consumer has the same level of protection and the same level
   of confidence in the food they eat, wherever its origin. A consumer
   shouldn't have to try to figure out which sources of food are safer
   than others. That's the government's job.

   First, we need to realize that imported foods present a unique and
   special challenge to us. Over the last decade, there has been an
   enormous surge in the volume of food that is imported into the United
   States. You can now go to the grocery store, any month of the year, and
   have a variety of products to choose from. For example, you have fruits
   and vegetables year-round that you never had before. Consumers want
   this choice. And it's a good choice. Many of these foods are the types
   we encourage people to eat as part of a healthy diet. However, when
   more and more food is coming from all around the world, not only does
   the sheer volume of the food present a challenge, but it also
   introduces more potential sources of contamination. As the volume of
   imports increases, the percentage of imported foods we are able to
   inspect decreases. Currently, the FDA is actually only able to sample
   and test less than 1 percent of imported products. As I have already
   mentioned, that means we have to target our efforts on those products
   that present the highest risk to consumers. The FDA has developed a
   computerized system over the last several years so that we are now able
   to quickly review import entries and identify products and/or countries
   where we've had trouble in the past. As I mentioned before, we've
   analyzed 1,000 samples of imported fruits and vegetables to see where
   the problems are, and so we're targeting our resources where the
   greatest known risk is.

   Second, we recognize that we can't expect to catch everything at the
   border, so we are increasing our overseas presence. We are now
   conducting more on-site foreign inspections, again, focusing on those
   products that are at highest risk for contamination. We also are
   increasing our foreign food safety outreach and training programs. Our
   food safety experts have traveled literally around the world to teach
   growers and processors what is needed to meet our country's high food
   safety standards. So far we've been to Central America, South America,
   the southern Pacific, and most recently to South Africa. We will also
   be going to the Far East.

   There has been enormous interest in these international outreach
   activities. The good news is that companies that want to export to the
   United States know we have high standards and they want to meet those
   standards, and we're doing our best to get the information to them on
   how to do that.

   In summary, yes, there are a lot more imports. And yes, the growing
   volume of imports is a concern to us. That is why we are shoring up
   border surveillance and increasing our overseas presence.

   Q: An estimated 6 million to 7 million Americans have food allergies.
   And about 150 people die each year in the United States from severe
   allergic reactions to food. What is the FDA doing to increase the
   awareness of food allergens among consumers and food processors?

   A: This is a very important issue. I think we have to start by clearly
   stating the problem. There are a significant number of Americans who
   have food allergies. About 90 percent of these food allergies are
   attributed to eight types of food: milk, eggs, fish, wheat, tree nuts,
   peanuts, soybeans and crustaceans (such as shrimp and crab).

   A couple of years ago, we started to see an increase in product recalls
   due to the presence of food allergens in the product that were not
   included on the label. The rule is: If it's in there, it's supposed to
   be on the label so that allergic consumers can avoid them. We worked
   with the states of Minnesota and Wisconsin to survey food
   manufacturers. What that survey found really caught our attention.
   Twenty-five percent of the samples tested positive for peanut
   allergens, even though peanuts were not supposed to be there and were
   not declared on the product label. And 10 percent of the samples tested
   positive for eggs, although eggs were not declared in the label. That
   is a big problem.

   A consumer with a food allergy is dependent on the food label. So those
   labels have to be reliable. As a result, we've taken a lot of steps to
   ensure that they are. And, just as important, the food industry has
   done a number of things, too, and they are to be commended for that. I
   think that everyone who looks at this problem says: This is something
   we need to fix. And the good news is that we can.

   We have issued a document called a Compliance Policy Guide. It
   articulates very simple rules on food allergens for industry. If you
   have an ingredient that may cause a food allergy in your product, you
   have to label it. And, if you don't label it, it should not be in
   there. By issuing this policy statement, we're telling the industry
   very clearly that we're going to be out there inspecting establishments
   to make sure that these rules are followed. We've also issued clear
   instructions to our field inspectors on what to look for from an
   allergen standpoint at food processing plants. The industry has
   followed suit and has developed their own code of practices for
   preventing cross-contamination with food allergens.

   In conjunction with patient advocacy groups, the food industry has
   developed guidelines to simplify allergen labeling in the food
   ingredient statement. The idea behind this effort is to speak to
   consumers in "plain English." If it is a milk-derived ingredient, for
   example, the ingredient statement will very clearly say "milk"
   ingredient rather than something like "casein" or "whey." This tells a
   consumer allergic to milk not to eat it. Clearer labeling is a
   significant step up for consumers.

   As soon as this issue emerged, everyone--whether on the industry side,
   the consumer side or the government side--agreed that food allergens
   are a real problem and that the problem needs to be addressed today.
   There really has been a lot of positive response and that's good for
   consumers with food allergies.

   Q: What else has the FDA done to improve the labeling of food?

   A: One of the FDA's greatest developments over the past decade was the
   development of the new food nutrition label. The label, which now
   appears on virtually all food products, gives consumers clear and
   reliable information on everything from calories, fat and sodium to
   protein and vitamins. That same principle of clear and reliable
   information to consumers is something we've applied to food labeling
   across the board. If there are claims of a health benefit in the
   labeling, we make sure that they are supported by good scientific
   studies and that they state clearly what the benefit is, without
   over-promising. It applies to clear information on food allergens, and,
   increasingly, it applies to safety information we want consumers to be
   aware of.

   For example, a couple of years ago we required a warning on
   unpasteurized juice products after there was a series of illnesses and
   one death. We wanted to be sure that consumers were aware that our most
   vulnerable populations--children, the elderly, and persons with
   weakened immune systems--could be at risk of serious illness from
   consumption of juice that is not pasteurized.

   Q: The FDA, as part of a cooperative effort with the Federal Trade
   Commission, Health Canada, and state attorneys general recently took
   action against several marketers who fraudulently sold dietary
   supplements and other "health" products on the Internet. What should
   consumers do to ensure that the health products they buy online are
   legal, safe and effective?

   A: The Internet certainly has provided greater access to everything
   from information to products. That includes food products and dietary
   supplements regulated by the FDA. It is much more difficult for the
   agency to regulate products sold over the Internet. It's harder to find
   where the marketers are. And if you are a marketer, it's easier to
   close down one Web site and start up another than to close down one set
   of offices and reopen another. When necessary, we are taking action
   against products sold on the Internet that do not meet applicable
   requirements. We are also partnering with other federal agencies like
   the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies. But consumers need to
   do their part, too. The basic advice is: Do your homework. Talk to your
   health-care professional to make sure that the products you use are
   right for you. That's true whether you're buying a product on the
   Internet, at the grocery store, or at your local health food store.

   Dietary supplements have a lot of positive uses but they also carry
   some potential risks, and every product isn't appropriate for everyone.
   Consumers need to take responsibility for doing the proper research and
   for consulting with health-care professionals to ensure that the
   products they take are right for them. It's also important for those
   who use supplements and take prescription drugs to tell their
   health-care provider what they're taking because we're starting to
   learn more about cross-reactions among different products. If you don't
   tell your health professionals all of the drugs and supplements that
   you're taking, they won't be able to advise you correctly.

   Q: What's the biggest challenge that you and the staff at the Center
   for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition face each day?

   A: The biggest challenge we face in an agency like the FDA is to be
   sure that we stay focused on those problems or issues that most
   directly benefit American consumers. Each year, our center sends out a
   call to consumer groups, industry groups, and to health-care groups,
   asking for input on what we should focus on during the next year. The
   central question is: Where do we do the most good for consumers? That's
   how we stay focused. There are so many issues, and so many groups that
   want us to pay attention to their needs. We need to keep the consumer
   who lives next door first and foremost in our minds. That's why we
   exist.

   Q: What's the take-home message?

   A: First, that the world of food safety has fundamentally changed in
   many ways. The consumer has to change with it and the government has to
   change with it, too. Take computers for example. It's obvious to
   everyone that the world of computers has changed--in barely a
   generation we've gone from electric typewriters to laptop computers and
   ready Internet access. Everybody can see that. The change in the food
   supply is much more subtle. It's harder to see. But the changes are
   just as dramatic. We are now eating a greater variety of foods,
   particularly seafood and fresh fruits and vegetables that are eaten
   raw. On the one hand, these products are nutritious. On the other hand,
   these foods can introduce many more sources of potential contamination,
   since they are not cooked.

   There also are many more kinds of harmful bacteria that can potentially
   contaminate our food. A physician from the American Medical Association
   said recently, "It's not your grandma's kitchen any more." That's true.
   Today, Americans get their food from all around the world, every month
   of the year. We also eat more food prepared outside the home where more
   and more food workers become involved in preparing our food, cooking
   our food, and serving our food. And when food is contaminated, there
   are many more people who are more susceptible to foodborne
   illness--pregnant women, the very young, the elderly, and those with
   impaired immune systems.

   So we now have a food supply that has within it a whole different
   dynamic than the one we grew up with. People need to know that the
   world of food safety has changed. That means increased vigilance all
   around. Does that mean that people need to be scared? No. What it does
   mean is that people need to take proper precautions just like they do
   when they get into their cars and fasten their seatbelts. Our main
   consumer messages are: Keep your hands and cooking surfaces clean; cook
   food to proper temperatures; refrigerate food promptly; and separate
   foods to avoid cross-contamination--in other words, don't put raw
   chicken on the cutting board just before you cut lettuce. "Healthy
   vigilance" for everyone involved should be the take-home message.
     __________________________________________________________________

       Table of Contents | How to Subscribe | Back Issues | Editorial
                                  Questions

                        FDA/Office of Public Affairs
                     Web page created by tg 2001-AUG-24.
