http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/search/search.html


                    LINCSearch
            Search Literacy Information


                                       National LINCS Site Map
                                                      Help
                                                      Home
                                                      LINCSearch

     Collections: high quality resources by subject Discussions: on-line
    lists on literacy issues My LINCS: make LINCS work for you HOT Sites:
                         recommended literacy sites

                                 LINCSearch
    Search for literacy resources, information, and curricula across the
       LINCS Network and major national and international adult basic
                       education and literacy sites.

                      Materials Search Materials Search
   A precise search of human-cataloged research, instructional materials,
   and curriculum resources available through the LINCS network. Use this
   search to find videos, books, journals, and web-based materials. Search
         results include summaries of the resources and other useful
                                information.

                         Global Search Global Search
      Do a broad search of web sites in the LINCS network -- national,
     regional, and in 50 states and territories -- and in 15 other major
    national and international sites. Use this search to locate resources
             available only on the web and to get A LOT of hits.

                 Global Search America's Literacy Directory
   Search this comprehensive on-line directory of local literacy providers
    in all 50 states and U.S. territories to find adult basic education,
   English as a second language, GED preparation, homework assistance, and
                 after school programs in your neighborhood.

                           List Search List Search
     Access ideas and suggestions from any or all of the NIFL and other
      literacy-related online discussion lists by searching across the
                            archived discussions.

                         Grants Search Grants Search
       A precise search of more than 500 current funding opportunities
   available from federal government, state, and local government, private
      industry, foundations, and other funding sources. Search results
      include summaries of the resources and other useful information.

    Contact Us National LINCS About LINCS National Institute for Literacy
      Western/Pacific LINCS Northwest LINCS Midwest LINCS Eastern LINCS
                               Southern LINCS
