http://cancercontrol.cancer.gov/5ad_exec.html

   National Cancer Institute home   [USEMAP:1.gif]

   5 A Day for Better Health Program Evaluation Report: Executive Summary


              In this Section:

           ° Executive Summary
           ° Introduction
           ° The Evidence that Vegetables and Fruit Protect Health
           ° Origins of the 5 A Day Program
           ° Description of the Program as Proposed
           ° The 5 A Day Message Environment
           ° Evaluation of the Program
           ° Recommendations of the Evaluation Group
           ° References
           ° Members of the Evaluation Group
           ° Acknowledgements
           ° Complete Report (PDF)

           5 A Day for Better Health Web site


      5 A Day logo

   Introduction

      The National Cancer Institute's (NCI) 5 A Day for Better Health Program
      (the Program) is a national program that approaches Americans with a
      simple, positive message: Eat 5 or more servings of vegetables and
      fruit daily for better health. In September 1999, the Director of the
      NCI established the 5 A Day Program Evaluation Group (the Evaluation
      Group) to review and evaluate the Program. Specifically, the Evaluation
      Group was asked to review (1) the science underlying the Program, (2)
      the implementation and accomplishments of the Program, and (3) the
      degree to which the Program has achieved its goals and objectives. The
      Evaluation Group also was charged with making recommendations to the
      NCI about the future conduct of the Program and to articulate NCI's
      role in large, coordinated efforts to promote healthy eating. Chapter 1
      of this report provides more detailed information about the charge to,
      and process of, the Evaluation Group.
      Chapter 2 of this report reviews the evidence that vegetables and fruit
      protect health, particularly the protection from cancer. Chapter 3
      describes the origins and early years of the 5 A Day Program and
      includes information about its scientific and programmatic
      justifications.
      Chapter 4 describes the 5 A Day Program as proposed to NCI's Board of
      Scientific Advisors in 1991.
      Chapter 5 describes the media and health- message environment in which
      the Program operated. It reviews the recent expansion of the
      communications infrastructure, the large volume of food and nutrition
      advertising, and the contradictory nature of nutrition-related news.
      Finally, this section explores the effects of this environment on the
      delivery of the 5 A Day message.
      Chapter 6, the Evaluation of the Program, is divided into four
      sections: (1) evaluation of the implementation of the Program; (2)
      evaluation of the Program using process measures (primarily,
      communication of the 5 A Day message); (3) evaluation of the Program
      using outcome measures—namely, measures of dietary change and factors
      that mediate dietary change (such as knowledge of dietary
      recommendations); and (4) evaluation of randomized, controlled trials
      of dietary interventions.
      The conclusions of the Evaluation Group are found throughout the report
      and summarized in the next section. The recommendations of the
      Evaluation Group immediately follow the conclusions.

   Conclusions of the Evaluation Group

   The Evidence That Vegetables and Fruit Protect Health

      When the 5 A Day Program was first developed, the recommendation to
      consume at least 5 servings of vegetables and fruit per day was
      supported by a diverse and convincing body of evidence. No subsequent
      finding has contradicted this conclusion. Indeed, since the start of
      the 5 A Day Program, further evidence has accumulated to support the
      hypothesis that a diet rich in vegetables and fruit reduces the risk of
      cancer and other chronic diseases. Specifically, the evidence for an
      inverse association with the risk of several epithelial cancers has
      been strengthened, evidence has begun to accumulate for
      hormone-dependent cancers, and a variety of mechanisms have emerged for
      the protective effect of specific constituents in vege tables and
      fruit, not only in animal studies, but also in humans.
      Although evidence also has emerged for a role of vegetables and fruit
      in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity, and diabetes,
      the most impressive body of evidence exists for protection against
      cancer. The recommended 5 servings of vegetables and fruit a day is a
      minimum rather than a maximum target for consumption, and any increase
      above current levels of consumption is to be encouraged for individuals
      and populations.

   Implementation and Process Measures

      Collaborations and Partnerships
      NCI's collaboration with private industry had a positive effect on
      expanding the impact of the 5 A Day message and bringing additional
      resources to the task. In addition, this partnership marked the first
      time that the producers and retailers of vegetables and fruit joined to
      undertake a common task. Key elements in ensuring the effectiveness of
      the partnership were the valuable in-kind contributions and the strong
      commitment of the industry. Beneficial outcomes of the partnership
      included an expanded communication base for the 5 A Day message and the
      promotion of national nutritional objectives. The public/private
      partnership, with its identifiable structure and modules, represents a
      model for the implementation of other public health endeavors.
      The industry partnership approach may have been too vulnerable to
      market considerations which, if not balanced by public health
      considerations, could readily lead to ignoring segments of the
      population not viewed as attractive markets. Further, the social
      marketing strategies of the NCI and its media partners tended to
      exclude the most underserved populations. These reasons may explain why
      the Program was less successful in reaching minority and low-income
      populations, even though research indicates clearly that such
      populations can be reached effectively.
      The 5 A Day Program developed successful collaborations with a range of
      Federal, state, and voluntary agencies. These collaborations provided
      mechanisms whereby the 5 A Day message was incorporated into a range of
      programs, from the school lunch program to statewide public-health
      interventions.
      Message Delivery and Environment
      The 5 A Day promotion campaign used a combination of strategies that
      leveraged advertising from its industry partners and developed
      relationships with media outlets to generate and inform news stories
      related to the Program. The media placement data suggest that media
      relations strategies were less successful after the first 1-2 years of
      the campaign, and that advertising strategies dominated.
      Commercial advertisers have learned that a consistent and prominent
      presence in the marketplace is key to achieving and holding market
      share. Expenditures for the marketing of food, fast food, and beverages
      (nearly $10 billion in 1999 alone) dwarf the $1 million spent each year
      by the NCI during the first 10 years of the 5 A Day Program. The
      difference in magnitude is instructive and speaks in support of what
      the 5 A Day Program accomplished with modest means. It also speaks to
      the magnitude of the behavior-change problem in the United States in
      continued overconsumption of total calories and less healthful eating
      patterns.
      Although new channels offer the possibility of more tailored
      communication to specific groups, the fragmentation of the
      communication system makes it more difficult to reach the majority of
      Americans consistently and inexpensively. The volume, inconsistency,
      and often contradictory nature of information in the marketplace have
      created less than ideal conditions for healthful behavior change. The
      effect of these factors is that the public frequently is overwhelmed by
      the sheer volume of information and left confused by the pastiche of
      entertainment, news stories, advertising, and other sources of health
      information about food, diet, and nutrition.
      Other Implementation and Process Measures
      The 5 A Day Program was implemented in ways that differed substantially
      from what was planned; most importantly, neither the central capacity
      for outcome evaluation nor the senior leadership and administrative
      support for the Program was ever established effectively. This may
      explain, in part, why efforts to monitor implementation of the Program,
      particularly at the state level, were not entirely successful.
      Consequently, NCI's ability to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of
      the Program was compromised.
      The redirection of resources from community/state capacity building to
      university-based research strengthened the opportunities to test
      well-designed intervention strategies for specific channels and
      targeted populations. This redirection, however, left little support
      for capacity building at the state and community level.

   Changes in Nutrition Policy and Public Health Practice

      Changes in the focus of dietary intervention research and public health
      nutrition policy have occurred during the period of implementation of
      the 5 A Day Program. Most important, there has been a shift from the
      nutrient-based message—for example, eat more fiber—to the food-based
      message—eat more vegetables and fruit. This has been reflected,
      particularly, in an increased emphasis on eating vegetables and fruit
      in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and in the U.S. Department of
      Agriculture's (USDA) Food Guide Pyramid. Though not necessarily a
      consequence solely of the 5 A Day Program, these shifts reflect the
      incorporation of the 5 A Day message into nutrition-related health
      promotion programs by Federal, state, and private agencies.

   Dietary Change and Related Outcomes

      Knowledge and Awareness
      NCI scientists found that the strongest predictors of dietary change
      were knowledge of the recommendation to eat 5 or more servings per day,
      taste preferences, and self-efficacy (in this con-text, confidence in
      one's ability to eat vegetables and fruit in a variety of situations).
      Changes in these factors can be used as secondary indicators of
      intervention program effectiveness.
      Before the 5 A Day Program, a small proportion (8%) of the American
      public understood at least part of the 5 A Day message. Subsequently,
      there have been increases in knowledge of the 5 A Day Program (18%) and
      its message (20%). The message has reached more women than men, and
      more whites than Latinos or African Americans.
      Consumption
      There has been a slow and steady increase in vegetable and fruit
      consumption in the United States during the period of the
      implementation of the 5 A Day Program and continuing through at least
      1998. Possible inferences from these changes on the effectiveness of
      the 5 A Day Program are limited. Most important, there is no comparison
      group that was not exposed to the Program. The possibility cannot be
      ruled out that, without the 5 A Day Program, there would have been
      substantial decreases in vegetable and fruit consumption, paralleling
      the rapid increase in obesity over the same time period. It is also
      possible that other factors may be influencing dietary behavior change
      in the United States, and that increases in vegetable and fruit intake
      are attributable to other programs. Nevertheless, the results are
      consistent with the inference that the 5 A Day Program has contributed
      to the continuous small increases in vegetable and fruit consumption
      over the past decade.
      Because insufficient capacity existed for monitoring program
      implementation at the state level and for relating program
      implementation to changes in vegetable and fruit consumption, no
      conclusions can be drawn from the extensive data collected on
      state-level implementation intensity.
      Even though safety is not an issue if vegetables and fruit are handled
      properly, the potentially undesirable sensory qualities of some
      vegetables and fruit (e.g., bitterness, sourness, pungency,
      astringency) may act as significant barriers to the adoption of a diet
      that is high in vegetables and fruit, especially among children. The
      dilemma here is that the strong-tasting compounds as a group overlap
      extensively with the compounds that are potentially protective against
      cancer; therefore, removing strong-tasting compounds may reduce the
      protective effect.
      Randomized Trials and Other Experimental Studies
      The NCI-funded randomized trials represent a significant body of
      research and offer a persuasive argument that behavioral interventions
      can have a positive impact on vegetable and fruit consumption.
      Elementary school behavioral and food service interventions had a
      positive impact on student vegetable and fruit consumption. The studies
      proved it is possible to change the elementary school environment and
      to reinforce the healthy dietary practices taught through the classroom
      curricula. The average effect increase was 0.62 servings per day, and
      the largest was 1.68 servings per day.
      Among adults, changes in the worksite, church, or family social
      environment were found to be possible, and these changes led to
      increases in the availability and consumption of vegetables and fruit.
      The average effect size was 0.48 servings per day, and the largest
      effect was 0.85 servings per day. For both school-based and adult
      studies, larger effects were observed in fruit consumption than in
      vegetable consumption.
      Surveillance
      There are inadequacies in the surveillance and monitoring of vegetable
      and fruit intakes in the U.S. population. In particular, these include
      inconsistencies in measurement techniques and assessment methodologies,
      a lack of coordination across surveys such as the Continuing Survey of
      Food Intake by Individuals (CSFII) and the Behavioral Risk Factor
      Surveillance System (BRFSS), and weaknesses in the analyses of the
      resulting data.

   Recommendations of the Evaluation Group

   Overall Recommendations

        * That the NCI continue the 5 A Day Program as a multifaceted program
          to support research and applied public health programs to promote
          increased vegetable and fruit consumption.
        * That the NCI continue to lead the 5 A Day Program and, to
          accomplish this task, ensure that it has a strong senior leader and
          specific scientific expertise in evaluation, intervention methods
          development, media, and community-based interventions, as well as
          nutrition and epidemiology.
        * That the NCI partner more closely with the USDA to focus dietary
          guidelines better and to promote research in agricultural and
          economic policies that encourage vegetable and fruit consumption.
        * That the NCI partner with other National Institutes of Health (NIH)
          institutes to (1) promote research into the role of specific
          vegetables and fruit and their components in lowering disease risk
          more generally, (2) promote methodologic and applied behavioral
          research, (3) expand awareness of the scope of chronic and
          deficiency diseases that may benefit from the increased consumption
          of vegetables and fruit, and (4) develop a comprehensive and
          rigorous surveillance plan to monitor vegetable and fruit
          consumption and the related psychosocial and economic factors. This
          last effort should include the Centers for Disease Control and
          Prevention (CDC) and possibly the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
          (FDA).
        * That the NCI partner with the CDC to develop and manage state-level
          5 A Day programs.

   Implementation

      The Media and Message Delivery
        * That the 5 A Day Program, as part of its continuing public
          relations efforts, seek to prevent the further growth of "dietary
          helplessness," to help the public differentiate between good and
          poor information, to provide a larger context for personal dietary
          decisions, and to help clarify the confusion engendered in the
          message environment. In the dense, fragmented, and competitive
          message environment surrounding diet and behavior, there is a need
          for reliable and credible sources of information.
          Resources
        * That direct expenditures and leveraged resources furthering
          delivery of the 5 A Day message be increased.
          Message Design
        * That the NCI reconsider the design and emphasis of the 5 A Day
          message. Specifically, media process-evaluation data suggest the
          need to "reinvent" the 5 A Day message on a regular basis to
          prevent "wear-out" and to enhance its continuing attractiveness to
          the mass media. In addition, the current strategy seems less
          successful in reaching minorities and low-income groups, which
          suggests that any change in message emphasis should take these
          groups into consideration.
          Media Strategies
        * That the 5 A Day Program devote additional resources to a variety
          of media strategies, including a systematic media relations effort
          to educate reporters, editors, and producers about diet and
          nutrition issues. As part of this approach, program planners should
          consider pursuing partnerships with the media to develop a
          long-term community emphasis on the 5 A Day message. The goal is to
          influence both the quantity and quality of news coverage of the 5 A
          Day Program in particular and of diet and nutrition issues in
          general.
        * That the 5 A Day Program rethink its channel-use strategy, with a
          particular focus on new media, tailored communications, and how
          media channels may be used as part of a collective approach to
          reaching lower socioeconomic groups and the disadvantaged.
          Evaluation of Communication Efforts
        * That the NCI and the 5 A Day Program part- ners pay close attention
          to developing a package of media evaluation approaches that are
          consistent, simple, complete, and affordable.
          Industry
        * That NCI's collaboration with the Produce for Better Health (PBH)
          Foundation be continued and expanded.
        * That the NCI use its relationships with industry specifically to
          ensure that vegetables and fruit become more available to high-risk
          and underserved communities.
          States
        * That the NCI increase the resources, staffing, and expertise made
          available to the states for the dissemination, monitoring, and
          evaluation of the 5 A Day Program.
          Minorities and the Underserved
        * That the NCI, in partnership with relevant organizations, develop
          operational strategies aimed at understanding and reducing
          disparities among ethnic groups and across educational and
          socioeconomic differences.

   Evaluation

        * That the NCI continue to take the lead in evaluating the
          effectiveness of the 5 A Day Program. This evaluation must include
          the extensive involvement of the states.
        * That the NCI undertake a comprehensive evaluation of each of the 5
          A Day Program components: media; research; and industry, private
          nonprofit, state, and Federal partnerships.

   Research

        * That the NCI maintain and support intramural and extramural
          research in the following areas, noting particularly the need to
          modify, where appropriate, available funding and specific
          peer-review expertise:
            1. Research into dissemination methods—how to translate
               small-scale research findings into large-scale, long-term,
               sustainable community programs—with particular emphasis on
               programs of demonstrated efficacy and for underserved
               populations;
            2. Research into behavior change—how to translate established
               data on changes that will plausibly reduce risk into choices
               individuals and communities can make. In particular,
                (a) Research into the development of more effective dietary
                    intervention programs, determining which components of
                    such programs contribute most to program effectiveness;
                    (b) Studies of children and adolescents as the
                    development of food preferences begins;
                    (c) Studies on ways to develop supportive environments
                    and increase the avail-ability of vegetables and fruit;
                    and
                    (d) Randomized controlled trials of school-based
                    interventions targeting middle and high school students.
            3. Policy research—particularly on ways to establish an optimal
               environment for making healthy food choices in a free-market
               economy;
            4. Research into environmental influences on dietary behavior and
               behavior change, including agricultural production, food
               distribution and availability, food labeling, pricing
               structures, taxation and price supports, purchase habits,
               advertising, cultural and social norms, and so on;
            5. Research into the mechanisms by which vegetables and fruit
               reduce cancer risk, particularly in humans;
            6. Research into influences on food choice, particularly genetic
               and environmental influences on taste preferences; early life
               experiences involving exposure to food; and education about
               food, food choice, and food preparation;
            7. Research into methods of measuring dietary behavior,
               particularly the further development of short- and long-term
               biological markers. In these research endeavors, access to
               relevant data collected by industry partners seeking to
               understand human
               preferences, behavior, and biology could prove a significant
               resource.
        * That research focused on vegetable and fruit consumption measure
          and report vegetables and fruit separately, rather than combining
          the two into a single measure.

   Surveillance

        * That the NCI, in partnership with other relevant Federal
          agencies—including the U.S. Public Health Service, the CDC, and the
          USDA— coordinate, facilitate, and strengthen surveillance and
          monitoring of (1) national vegetable and fruit consumption; (2)
          psychosocial mediators of dietary behavior change such as self-
          efficacy, knowledge, and taste preferences; and (3) if future
          research establishes their importance, possible environmental
          mediators of dietary behavior and behavior change, including food
          availability, price structures, taxation policy, and so on.

   [Next]
