http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/sjm0627.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit Photo Gallery


              Congress Debates Extending Online-Tax Moratorium

                            San Jose Mercury News

   June 27, 2001

   By Heather Fleming Phillips
   WASHINGTON--Most House and Senate lawmakers appear to agree that a
   moratorium on e-commerce taxes is good for the Internet and the
   economy. But less than four months before a ban on those taxes is set
   to expire, Congress is still fighting over the details of a bill to
   extend the moratorium.
   Congress in 1998 passed a law that prevented states and other local
   authorities from imposing taxes on e-commerce that don't apply to
   traditional retailers, and it also banned taxes on Internet access. The
   moratorium expires in October and, if not renewed, states would be free
   to impose taxes at will on the Internet.
   "The risk of having the moratorium expire is enormous if we load on
   these admittedly important other issues," Rep. Christopher Cox
   (R-Newport Beach) told the House Judiciary Committee's panel on
   commercial and administrative law at a hearing Tuesday.
   Virginia Governor James Gilmore, chairman of Congress' Advisory
   Commission on Electronic Commerce, told the panel that letting the
   moratorium lapse in the hopes of creating a simplified tax structure
   "is probably not in the interest of the country."
   Richard Comfort, vice president for tax and tax policy for Amazon.com,
   told the Judiciary panel that he was wary of the states' commitment to
   true simplification of their tax structures. "The states have
   repeatedly demonstrated inability or unwillingness to grapple with the
   issues that must be resolved in order to achieve genuine
   simplification," Comfort said.
