http://afs600.faa.gov/default.htm


   Click here to return to home page [spacer.gif]

   AFS-600
   AFS-610
   AFS-620
   AFS-630
   AFS-640
   AFS-650
   Street Address:
   6500 S MacArthur
   Oklahoma City OK
   73169
   Mailing Address:
   PO Box 25082
   Oklahoma City OK
   73125


   Regulatory Support Division Federal Aviation Administration
   Alphabetized Index | Av-Info Site | What's New | Search
    AFS-600 | AFS-610 | AFS-620 | AFS-630 | AFS-640 | AFS-650
   Regulatory Support Division - AFS-600 click to download Adobe's free
                                         Acrobat Reader
   Airworthiness Programs (610)
   • Airworthiness
   Airworthiness Directives
   Amateur-Built Aircraft • PMAs • STCs • TCDS
   TSOs • SAIBs - Alpha • SAIBs - Numeric
   NPRMs • RGL
   • Designees
   Applications • Reference Library
   FAQ • Background/History
   Training • News/Updates
   Aviation Data Systems (620)
   • Data Download
   AID • Air Agency • Air Operators
   Mechanic Schools • Pilot Schools
   PRIA • Repair Stations • SDR • JASC
   Training Centers • Utilization Reports
   • Data Search
   AFS Directory • SDR Info • Repair Station
   Airline Certificate / Fleet Age Info
   FAA Enforcements / Incidents
   Pilot / Maintenance Schools
   Airman Testing Standards (630)
   • Airman Training and Testing
   Advisory Circulars • Test Item Banks
   Testing Centers  • Supplements • Test Guides
   Practical Test Standards
   Test Statistics • Training Handbooks
   Other Test Info
   Automation Infrastructure Management (650)
   • Forms
   Designee Standardization (640)
   • Alerts (AC 43-16)
   • Designee Seminars (FY 2002)
   DPE Schedule  •  DME/DPRE - Schedule
   Airworthiness Standardization Seminar
   Mfg & Maint. Initial Standardization Seminar
   Manufacturing Standardization Seminar
   • Other Designee Information
   DPE List  • DPE Application  •  FDR-1D Kit
   Designee Updates  •  National Examiner Board
   Info & Handbook Bulletins  •  FSDO Locator
   FAQ 14 CFR, Part 61 & 141

      AFS-600 Regulatory Support Division - About



                                                   AFS-600 - Related Links

   • Annual Report
   • Brochure
   • Organizational Chart

      The Regulatory Support Division, AFS-600, is a Federal Aviation
      Administration (FAA), Washington D.C. Headquarters Office located at
      the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

      The Division is composed of five branches who promote safety by
      providing the aviation community with the highest level of services and
      systems. We educate, advise, enlighten, and empower users to save lives
      through the development, implementation, analysis and dissemination of
      technical information. This encompasses airmen testing, designee
      standardization, aircraft certification and maintenance, aviation
      safety data systems, and management of the information technology
      infrastructure.

      Our customers include Flight Standards Service, Aircraft Certification
      Service, private industry, as well as the public. The division actively
      participates in The National Examiner Board (NEB), which screens and
      rates applications of persons who wish to be Designated Pilot Examiners
      (DPEs), Designated Mechanic Examiners (DMEs), Designated Parachute
      Rigger Examiners (DPREs), and ultimately provides the local Flight
      Standards District Offices (FSDO) with lists of qualified candidates
      for selection as examiners.

      N O T I C E

      Unless otherwise specifically stated, the information contained within
      AFS-600s website is made available to the public by the Federal
      Aviation Administration (FAA), an Agency of the Department of
      Transportation (DOT), and the United States Government (USG) for
      information only.

      Neither AFS-600, the FAA, DOT, or USG nor any other agency or entities
      thereof, assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
      accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
      product or process disclosed, or represents that the use of any
      information would not infringe privately owned rights.

      Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, service
      by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
      constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring the
      USG or any entities thereof.

      The views and opinions of the originators expressed therein do not
      necessarily state or reflect those of AFS-600, the FAA, DOT, USG, or
      any agency or entities thereof.

      This web site uses temporary session cookies to help supply information
      to the search engines so that user information requests can be
      satisfied. No session cookies will be kept after users end their
      browser session. Our session cookies have no impact on security or
      privacy.

      The session cookies on this site are used as session variables, that
      are automatically removed from the user's computer at the end of their
      browser session. They are used for:

       1. connectivity to SQL servers
       2. passing values to and from SQL stored procedures (data retrieval)
       3. passing values from one web page to another web page
       4. timeout values
       5. display characteristics
       6. logic flow within a web page
       7. error handling

      For additional information about the use of Cookies on our site, please
      visit (http://www.faa.gov/issuesinfo.htm).

      ** WARNING/DISCLAIMER ON USE OF GOVERNMENT SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION **

      Website Version 3.0 - Published June 20, 2001 ( http://afs600.faa.gov/
      )

      Published online by Aviation Flight Standards (AFS) 600
      A Division of the United States Federal Aviation Administration
