http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/NaturalHazards/



          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                   Natural Hazards

     Natural Hazards

   Gray, rectangular map of the world with various green icons on it.
   Caption explains image.
   The icons on the above map show the locations of natural hazards
   observed by NASA satellites. Choose one to see the latest image
   associated with that natural hazard event, or select one of the
   sections from our topic list to learn more about these extreme events.

   Earth scientists around the world use NASA satellite imagery to better
   understand the causes and effects of natural hazards. The goal in
   sharing these images is to help people visualize where and when natural
   hazards occur, and to help mitigate their effects. All images in this
   section are freely available to the public for re-use or re-publication
   (please use credits as indicated for each image). Check out our related
   links. We also have an archive of older events.

   This Week's Events
   * Volcanoes: Nyiragongo Volcano Erupts in the Congo
     Mount Nyiragongo, located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
     erupted on January 17, 2002, ejecting a large cloud of smoke and ash
     high into the sky and spewing lava down three sides of the volcano. One
     river of lava flowed right through the center of Goma and into Lake
     Kivu, effectively bisecting the city. 3 Images, Updated: January 30,
     2002
   * Volcanoes: Réunion Island Volcano Erupts
     The Piton de la Fournaise volcano on the French island of Réunion
     erupted on January 5, 2002, sending a river of lava running down its
     eastern flank and into the Indian Ocean. 1 Image, Posted: January 25,
     2002
   * Severe Storms: Tropical Cyclone 10s (Dina)
     Tropical Cyclone 10S (Dina) northeast of Mauritius and Reunion Islands.
     4 Images, Updated: January 24, 2002
   Archive | Related Links | Section FAQ   Dust and Smoke Section
   Fires Section
   Floods Section
   Severe Storms Section
   Volcanoes Section
   Unique Imagery Section


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
