http://cwc.anl.gov/ch6.htm




                                  CHAPTER 6

                      LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

                                                      [cwc.jpg]

      Table Of Contents

      CHAPTER 1 -- GIVING THE CWC FORCE AND EFFECT
      CHAPTER 2 -- THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY
      CHAPTER 3 -- DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
      CHAPTER 4 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CHEMICALS
      CHAPTER 5 -- PENAL LEGISLATION

      CHAPTER 6 -- LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION
      6.1 Purpose of the Legal Assistance Obligation

      6.1.1 Law Enforcement Objective
          6.1.2 Scope of Obligation to Provide Legal Assistance

      6.2 Introduction To The Forms of Legal Assistance
      6.2.1 Mutual Legal Assistance
          6.2.2 Immobilization and Forfeiture of Illicit Proceeds

      6.2.2.1 Obligation to Confiscate
          6.2.2.2 Grounds for Refusal

      6.2.3 Extradition
      6.2.4 Transfer of Proceedings
      6.2.5 Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments
   6.2.6 Transfer of Prisoners
   6.3 Suggested Implementing Measures
   6.3.1 Define the Powers of a Government Agency
       6.3.2 Enumerate Individual Rights Affected by a Request for Legal
       Assistance
       6.3.3 Specify Grounds for Refusing or Postponing a Request for
       Assistance

   Conclusions CHAPTER 7 -- DECLARATIONS
   CHAPTER 8 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF SITES AND
   ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS
   CHAPTER 9 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II -- ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND CONDUCT
   OF INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 10 -- CHALLENGE INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 11 -- CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   CHAPTER 12 -- REMEDIES
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation


                                  CHAPTER 6
     __________________________________________________________________

                      LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

   This Chapter discusses the implications of the obligation contained in
   CWC Article VII, para. 2 to cooperate and provide legal assistance to
   other States Parties: "Each State Party shall cooperate with other
   States Parties and afford the appropriate form of legal assistance to
   facilitate the implementation of the obligations under paragraph 1."
   (See Chapter 5.) With this requirement, the CWC applies principles of
   international criminal and administrative law enforcement to arms
   control. Because this application is virtually unprecedented, States
   Parties may find useful an introduction to the principles and
   procedures of legal assistance.

   This Chapter contains three sections. Section 1 discusses the reasons
   for and the nature of the CWC's obligation to provide legal assistance.
   Section 2 offers a quick reference to the various forms of legal
   assistance. Section 3 considers domestic measures typically taken by
   states obligated to provide various forms of legal assistance.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   6.1 Purpose of the Legal Assistance Obligation

   The extent of Article VII's obligation to "cooperate" with other States
   Parties and to provide "the appropriate form of legal assistance"
   should be interpreted in light of the CWC's object and purpose.
   "Cooperate" refers to an obligation of the executive or administrative
   sector of a national government to assist other States Parties to the
   best of its abilities. "Legal assistance" typically involves an
   obligation of the judicial, law enforcement and administrative arms of
   a national government to provide assistance in both criminal and
   administrative penal matters.

   6.1.1 Law Enforcement Objective

   The need for legal assistance arises from the risk of clandestine or
   criminal weapons programs. Production of lethal agents may be split
   among numerous facilities in various nations, complicating detection.
   Thus, CWC inspectors would only detect discrete, seemingly innocuous
   operations in each state but would not detect the overall scheme to
   subvert the CWC's goals. The problem is worsened by the dynamic
   international trade in chemicals; many participants engage in
   transnational activities either by operating affiliates or by extensive
   contractual arrangements with other firms in foreign jurisdictions.

   The obligation to provide legal assistance can activate powerful law
   enforcement measures to restrain chemical weapons. States Parties can
   use the various forms of legal assistance in criminal and
   administrative matters to better investigate suspected CWC violations.
   Because other States Parties will be required to provide legal
   assistance, each will have access to information located in other
   countries. Moreover, effective control of the international chemical
   trade will require application of the many forms of legal assistance to
   acquire information and resolve concerns in the context of
   administrative investigations. This application is unprecedented and
   will require a creative approach to the implementation of the CWC's
   legal assistance obligations.

   6.1.2 Scope of Obligation to Provide Legal Assistance

   The single use of the term "legal assistance" may not create a concrete
   obligation for States Parties to provide one another with all forms of
   legal assistance. The practice of many states is to provide legal
   assistance only pursuant to a treaty obligation. While Article VII
   creates an obligation to cooperate and provide legal assistance, it is
   not tantamount to a multilateral legal assistance treaty covering all
   forms of legal assistance. Its introduction of the concept of legal
   assistance to the CWC neither enumerates which forms a State Party must
   provide nor addresses any of the several procedural issues that legal
   assistance treaties typically cover. Owing to Article VII's lack of
   detail and procedures, it would be difficult to find a binding
   obligation in relation to all of the forms of legal assistance.

   Thus, Article VII does not create an obligation for States Parties to
   provide all forms of legal assistance recognized under international
   law, but States Parties may be obligated to do what they can to fulfill
   a request for assistance. It would, perhaps, be best to view the
   Article VII obligation as the first step to establishing a framework
   within which States Parties may negotiate and conclude agreements to
   provide one another with the various forms of legal assistance. States
   Parties may have to conclude agreements to provide particular forms of
   legal assistance, but they will not be obligated to provide assistance
   (such as extradition) in the absence of such an agreement.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   6.2 Introduction To The Forms of Legal Assistance

   This section introduces six forms of legal assistance so that States
   Parties may better understand what they might be asked to provide.
   Successful CWC enforcement will probably not require the operation of
   all of the various forms of legal assistance. The forms of legal
   assistance most immediately relevant to CWC implementation, and
   therefore most "appropriate" under Article VII, are: (1) mutual legal
   assistance and (2) immobilization and forfeiture of illicit proceeds.
   The remaining forms, in descending order of relevance to the CWC are:
   (3) extradition, (4) transfer of proceedings, (5) recognition of
   foreign penal and administrative judgements, and (6) transfer of
   prisoners. Common principles undergird each form of legal assistance
   despite differences in specific treaty requirements and procedures. The
   details of each form can be ascertained by consulting international
   instruments relating to each.^(81)

   6.2.1 Mutual Legal Assistance

   Detecting activities in violation of the CWC or domestically enacted
   penal statutes may be complicated by the fact that courts and other
   legal authorities usually have only territorial jurisdiction. Law
   enforcement officials in one State Party, seeking information about
   CW-related activities in another State Party that are too speculative
   to justify a challenge inspection, should not have to slow and
   expensive diplomatic methods which rely on comity. Such methods entail
   passing letters rogatory through courts in both countries, their
   respective foreign and justice ministries, and embassies, with no duty
   provide information or assistance.^(82) Moreover, these diplomatic
   channels are bilateral; each nation has dissimilar legal capabilities
   to receive and process requests.^(83)

   To overcome these shortcomings, binding mutual legal assistance
   treaties (MLATs), have been concluded to expedite effective interstate
   legal cooperation in criminal and administrative matters.^(84) MLATs
   enable judicial authorities of the requesting and requested state to
   communicate directly. These formal agreements can be either bilateral
   or multilateral.^(85) Besides rectifying the problems of letters
   rogatory, these agreements specify obligations among States Parties
   instead of functioning merely as a matter of comity. When incorporated
   into a broad agreement such as the CWC, a provision for mutual legal
   assistance could be a powerful tool by clarifying the procedures to be
   followed in making and executing requests for legal assistance.

   MLATs typically provide for the following forms of assistance: (1)
   executing requests related to penal matters; (2) taking of testimony or
   statements; (3) producing documents, records, or articles of evidence;
   (4) serving judicial documents such as writs, summonses and records of
   judgments; (5) summoning of witnesses before the court of the
   requesting state; (6) locating persons; and (7) providing judicial
   records, evidence, and information.^(86)

   The request, with a translation into a language acceptable to the
   requested state, usually includes the name of the requesting office and
   the authority making the request; the purpose of the request and the
   type of assistance sought; a description of the facts alleged to
   constitute an offense; a statement or text of all relevant laws; a
   description and explanation of special procedures or requirements the
   requesting state wishes to be followed; specification of any applicable
   time limit; and any other information necessary to the proper execution
   of the request. If the requested state believes that the information
   contained in the request is insufficient, it may request more.

   Because an MLAT serves to ensure that evidence is obtained from other
   nations in a manner admissible in domestic courts, the procedures for
   gathering information are critical. As a result, MLATs contain many
   provisions concerning service of documents, obtaining evidence,
   searches and seizures, provision of publicly available documents (such
   as criminal records), obtaining evidence from persons already in
   custody, ensuring the appearance of witnesses and experts to give
   evidence (testimony), and the temporary transfer of persons in custody
   to the requested state for the purpose of giving evidence. The law of
   the requested state will apply to the execution of all forms of
   assistance.

   In executing a request, a requested state should keep the request
   confidential as well as any supporting documentation and the fact that
   any assistance was granted. A point of particular relevance to the CWC
   and the concerns over trade secrets and confidential business
   information is that, under some mutual assistance treaties, a
   requesting state must keep any evidence and information it receives
   confidential except if the information is required for investigations
   and proceedings described in the request.^(87) Finally, MLATs typically
   allow a country to postpone or to refuse to provide legal assistance on
   a number of grounds, or to provide assistance subject to certain
   conditions.^(88)

   When faced with a problematic request for legal assistance (e.g., a
   request that could possibly be refused for any of the above reasons), a
   requested state can propose to postpone the provision of legal
   assistance. The accepted grounds for postponement are less clear than
   those for refusal; nevertheless, the state proposing postponement must
   give its reasons. Before a state refuses or postpones a request for
   legal assistance, it should consider whether assistance could be given
   subject to certain conditions. If agreed to by the requesting state,
   assistance can be provided pursuant to these conditions.^(89)

   6.2.2 Immobilization and Forfeiture of Illicit Proceeds

   This latest form of legal assistance^(90) could serve several important
   functions to combat any illicit chemical weapons activities that are
   supported by the temptation of huge profits. Efforts to thwart such
   diabolical gains could significantly deter prohibited activity.
   Moreover, the freezing and seizing of assets makes it difficult for
   those engaged in illicit chemical weapons activities to hide their
   profits through traditional money laundering techniques.

   The Council of Europe Laundering Convention (COE Convention) is
   instructive; it is intended to combat all forms of serious crimes,
   including arms dealing and other offenses that generate large profits.
   The COE Convention: (1) criminalizes the offense of money laundering,
   and (2) provides states the means to confiscate illicit proceeds --
   including provisional measures to immobilize those assets for eventual
   forfeiture. The COE Convention also enumerates each party's duties as
   to international cooperation. Each form of assistance (investigative
   assistance, provisional measures, or confiscation), couples an
   obligation to assist with a method of execution (as governed by the law
   of the requested state). Each party must also enact legislation to
   enable it to comply with requests for investigation, preliminary
   measures, and confiscation.^(91) If CWC-related penal measures in each
   country satisfy the requirements of the COE Convention, it could be
   used to enforce CWC penal legislation abroad.

   6.2.2.1 Obligation to Confiscate

   Parties must afford each other the widest possible measure of
   assistance in identifying and tracing proceeds and instrumentalities
   liable to confiscation, and any assistance must be carried out in
   accordance with the domestic law of the requested state. A party is
   also allowed, without a prior request, to transmit information about
   instrumentalities and proceeds when it believes that information might
   assist another party in carrying out its own investigations or
   proceedings. When requested to confiscate property located within its
   territory, a party must: (1) enforce a confiscation order made by a
   court of a requesting party; or (2) submit the request to its competent
   authorities in order to secure an order for confiscation, and, if such
   an order is granted, enforce it.^(92)

   Execution of a confiscation request must be carried out pursuant to the
   requested state's domestic law. Moreover, the requested party is bound
   by the findings of fact stated or implied in a conviction or judicial
   decision of the requesting party. The COE Convention does not limit the
   amount of assets that are subject to restraint or seizure, but
   confiscation is limited to the amount of the confiscation order. Any
   confiscated property will be disposed of in accordance with the
   domestic law of the requested state.

   Parties are also obligated, upon request of a party that has instituted
   criminal proceedings or proceedings aimed at confiscation, to take
   necessary provisional measures such as freezing or seizing property
   that may be subject to confiscation. Provisional measures shall also be
   conducted in accordance with domestic law, and before any measures may
   be lifted the requesting party must be given an opportunity to give its
   reasons for continuing the measures.

   6.2.2.2 Grounds for Refusal

   A state may refuse to provide investigative assistance or to execute
   provisional measures if those measures could not be taken under
   domestic law under similar circumstances. Requests to confiscate
   property may also be refused for a number of reasons. For example, a
   request may be refused if the requested state's law does not allow
   confiscation in respect of the type of offense to which the request
   relates. Other grounds permit refusal if it would be contrary to the
   laws of the requested state concerning the limits of confiscation or if
   confiscation would be prohibited under the law of the requested state
   due to lapse of time.^(93)

   6.2.3 Extradition

   If a state captures a fugitive charged with a criminal offense against
   another state's laws or in violation of international criminal law, the
   culprit should be extradited for prosecution to where the offense was
   committed or prosecuted where captured. The maxim of aut dedere aut
   judicare ("extradite or prosecute") eliminates safe havens and is
   included in almost all legal cooperation conventions. The "rule of
   speciality" limits the requesting state's authority to prosecute only
   the crime specified in the extradition order unless the that state
   requests and receives a waiver to prosecute for other offenses.

   The extradition process must be carried out in accordance with
   international law and the laws of the respective states. For an
   extradition to proceed legally, three primary elements must be present.
   First, the state seeking the extradition must have jurisdiction over
   the offense charged.^(94) Second, the requested state must have
   jurisdiction over the person to be extradited. Third, the crime for
   which extradition is sought must be one of the offenses for which
   extradition is permitted under the applicable treaty or domestic
   legislation.^(95)

   A limitation on the requested state is the "rule of non-inquiry": it
   may not question the requesting state's decision to seek extradition
   nor how the person was arrested, charged with, or convicted of a crime.
   Similarly, the requested state's courts may not consider the legal
   processes, treatment or penalties that await the individual in the
   requesting state, but a state may deny an extradition request if the
   individual would face arbitrary justice or degrading and inhuman
   treatment. This limitation applies only to the judicial branch and does
   not impinge on the discretion of the executive branch. Moreover, many
   states will not extradite their own nationals, but some extradition
   treaties forbid this refusal or provide that a requested state may
   refuse to extradite its own nationals only if it prosecutes an offender
   in its own courts.

   A requested state may "provisionally arrest" and detain a suspect
   before receipt of an official extradition request in urgent cases if
   the requesting state so requests. Requested states may consider
   petitions for provisional arrest under domestic law. Under most
   extradition treaties, a person under "provisional arrest" can be
   detained for approximately 45 days. If no formal extradition request is
   received within that period, the person must be released but may be
   re-arrested and detained if a formal request is later received. After
   an extradition has been granted, the states must arrange for the actual
   surrender of the person.

   6.2.4 Transfer of Proceedings

   If a suspect commits a crime in one state ("A") but later travels to
   the state where he is a national or an ordinary resident ("B"), state
   "A" may ask state "B" to prosecute the individual for the offense. If
   "B" agrees to the transfer, "A" waives its right to prosecute the
   suspect for the offense. In effect, an agreement to transfer
   proceedings confers upon a state extraterritorial jurisdiction over
   that offense because the requested state's courts derive their
   jurisdiction from that agreement. However, a transfer of proceedings
   does not contemplate the physical delivery of the person. Information
   (or a case file) may be communicated, but the person can be arrested
   and physically delivered to the requested state for prosecution only if
   validly extradited.

   This form of legal assistance has several rationales. First, the
   suspect might prefer to be tried in his own nation and language, and
   according to laws with which he may be more accustomed. Second, if the
   proceedings result in a conviction, the offender might prefer to serve
   his sentence in his own country. Third, the transfer of proceedings
   will allow the requesting state to save court costs and other expenses.
   Fourth, a transfer of proceedings makes it unnecessary for the
   requesting state to try the subject in absentia -- in light of the fact
   that he probably could never be extradited because he is a national of
   the requested state. Finally, the transfer of proceedings may allow the
   requested state to try the suspect for other offenses.

   6.2.5 Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments

   CWC enforcement may require giving force and effect to orders and
   judgments rendered by government bodies, judicial and otherwise,
   concerning CWC-prohibited activities. A domestic court or government
   body should be able to enforce its judgments against legal and natural
   persons located abroad. International penal law has addressed this
   issue through treaties that provide for the enforcement of foreign
   penal and administrative judgments under which a state may be asked to
   enforce any of several types of penal sanctions, including prison
   sentences, fines, confiscations or disqualifications (e.g., the
   suspension of a right -- such as the right to practice law or
   medicine).^(96) This capability is crucial when the extradition of an
   offender is not possible or is refused.

   The principles of dual criminality and ne bis in idem (double jeopardy)
   limit requests to enforce penal judgements. The offense that resulted
   in a sanction or confiscation must not be of a political, military or
   fiscal nature, and the sentenced person must have had an opportunity to
   offer a sufficient defense in a proceeding that recognizes basic
   principles of justice and human rights.

   In making a request, a state must submit: (1) a certified copy of the
   decision or order, (2) a description of the activity that gave rise to
   the sanction, (3) a copy of the provision under which the act or
   omission is considered an offense, (4) a description of the sanction
   (e.g., confiscation of assets), (5) an indication of any portion of the
   sanction that has already been enforced, (6) a statement of the
   identity and location of the person sought, and, (7) in the case of
   confiscation, information relating to the property sought.

   6.2.6 Transfer of Prisoners

   If CWC enforcement leads to a conviction, agreements regulating the
   transfer of sentenced persons might become relevant to permit convicted
   felons serving a sentence in a foreign country to complete their
   sentences in their national, or home, state. The state where the
   offender has been convicted and is serving his/her sentence (the
   "transferring state") must contact the offender's country of
   nationality (the "receiving state") and indicate its willingness to
   transfer the offender. Either the transferring state, the receiving
   state or the offender himself can initiate the process. Once requested,
   the receiving state may determine if it wishes to effect the transfer;
   it may decline. The execution of the sentence will be governed by the
   laws of the receiving state which is bound by the findings of fact of
   the transferring state. As a result, the receiving state cannot
   re-examine the conviction or the sentence imposed, nor may it impose a
   longer or harsher sentence on the transferred offender.^(97)
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   6.3 Suggested Implementing Measures

   The CWC obligates States Parties to cooperate and to provide "legal
   assistance" to other States Parties. As stated, Article VII of the CWC,
   without more, will not require States Parties to provide legal
   assistance, but they can provide legal assistance on the basis of
   comity or reciprocity. States Parties wishing to pursue such a policy
   of voluntary cooperation should consider adopting measures to expedite
   the provision of legal assistance.

   Providing the various forms of legal assistance may be complicated by
   significant differences in the administrative capabilities among States
   Parties. Not every State Party can carry out its CWC obligations in
   relation to legal assistance with the same degree of effectiveness. It
   will be important to develop methods to assure consistent enforcement
   among all States Parties.

   Each State Party should enact domestic measures to allow its government
   to provide the appropriate form of legal assistance when another State
   Party so requests. A State Party might enact domestic measures to
   fulfill its obligations under a specific treaty, or it may enact
   general measures dealing with each form of legal assistance absent a
   treaty so that it could provide requested assistance on the basis of
   comity or reciprocity.^(98) Some nations have enacted comprehensive
   instruments of international cooperation in a single legislative
   act.^(99) The following material examines some components of domestic
   measures that could be taken to guarantee the provision of legal
   assistance under the CWC and identifies and describes provisions that
   are common to many forms of legal assistance.

   6.3.1 Define the Powers of a Government Agency

   Each State Party should establish clear principles and guidelines for
   the government agency primarily responsible for carrying out a State
   Party's CWC-related legal assistance obligations. To expedite requests
   for assistance, the legislation should empower this agency to
   communicate directly with its counterparts in other States Parties and
   with the OPCW as well as answer their requests. This agency should be
   given access to the expertise and assistance of other government
   agencies more adept in the area of legal assistance.

   The implementing legislation need not specify all of the requirements
   for each form of legal assistance. General guidelines and procedures
   may be developed to ensure that a government agency can provide, upon
   request, formal legal assistance and communicate informally with States
   Parties when necessary, without undue interference from other
   ministries or agencies.^(100) The types of information and assistance
   that should be available to regulatory and law enforcement authorities
   include: data in the government's possession, conducting searches,
   examining sites or objects, taking evidence or statements from persons,
   effecting service of judicial papers, and providing documents such as
   financial or business records (without regard to bank secrecy laws).

   6.3.2 Enumerate Individual Rights Affected by a Request for Legal
   Assistance

   Requests for legal assistance may give rise to proceedings in the
   requested State Party that could affect individual rights. Accordingly,
   legal mechanisms could be included in measures implementing the CWC
   legal assistance obligations to ensure that protected rights of
   privacy, due process of law, and other liberties are respected
   consistent with the requested state's law.

   6.3.3 Specify Grounds for Refusing or Postponing a Request for
   Assistance

   Under international law, legal assistance obligations are limited by
   several factors, including: (1) the "rule of speciality"; (2) all
   applicable laws of the requested state;, (3) exceptions for political,
   fiscal, tax, or military offenses; (4) the rule of "double criminality"
   (some legal assistance obligations do not apply if the request concerns
   an offense that is not subject to criminal, penal, or administrative
   sanction under the laws of the requested state); (5) the principle of
   ne bis in idem (legal assistance obligations will not apply if the
   requested state's authorities have rendered a definitive judgement on
   the offense referred to in the request for legal assistance); and (6)
   the variety of reasons to extinguish a cause of action such as grants
   of amnesty, immunity from prosecution, pardons, and the expiry of
   statutes of limitation.

   Depending on how a State Party interprets its CWC obligations, it may
   desire to include in its implementing legislation additional reasons to
   refuse a request for cooperation. Owing to the very nature of offenses
   likely to arise under the CWC, special consideration should be given as
   to whether the military offense exception, the fiscal offense exception
   or the political offense exception should be applied to CWC-related
   requests for legal assistance.

   Conclusions

   Legal assistance can be expected to play an important role in effective
   CWC enforcement. But the obligation contained in Article VII, paragraph
   2 raises two important questions: (1) what is the "appropriate form of
   legal assistance" under the CWC? and (2) what is the extent of a State
   Party's obligation as to legal assistance? This Chapter has not
   presumed to answer either of those difficult questions. Instead, this
   Chapter identifies the various forms of legal assistance and provides a
   brief explanation of how those forms typically function. The
   implementation options described above should be considered in the
   context of international relations and should take into account the
   particular needs of each State Party and their legal systems.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table Of Contents

   Chapter 1 -- Giving the CWC Force and Effect
   Chapter 2 -- The National Authority
   Chapter 3 -- Destruction of Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
   Chapter 4 -- Restrictions on Chemicals
   Chapter 5 -- Penal Legislation
   Chapter 6 -- Legal Assistance and Cooperation
   Chapter 7 -- Declarations
   Chapter 8 -- Routine Inspections I -- Selection of Sites and
   Arrangements for Inspectors
   Chapter 9 -- Routine Inspections II -- Access to Facilities and Conduct
   of Inspections
   Chapter 10 -- Challenge Inspections
   Chapter 11 -- Confidential Information
   Chapter 12 -- Remedies
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation
