http://www.fdic.gov/about/privpol.html

   Skip Global Header FDIC Global Navigation Links

   Privacy Policy Statement

   The FDIC is strongly committed to maintaining the privacy of your
   personal information. The following discloses our information gathering
   and dissemination practices for this site. The information the FDIC
   receives depends upon your actions when visiting the Corporations web
   site.

   Information Collected About Your Visit to the Web Site

   The FDIC automatically collects and stores the following information
   about you when you visit our Web site:
     * The date and time the request was received.
     * Your Internet Protocol (IP) address, or the proxy address of your
       Internet Service Provider (e.g. AOL, CompuServe, and so on).
     * The name and IP address of the FDIC server that received and logged
       the request.
     * The resource on an FDIC server accessed as a result of the request,
       such as the Web page, image, and so on.
     * The query in the request. This field captures any criteria or
       parameters issued with a query, such as a bank name or insurance
       certificate number.
     * The name and version of your Web browser (e.g. Netscape 4.0).
     * The content of any sent or received cookie.
     * The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that was accessed before the
       user made a request for FDICs Web server. The URL may be an outside
       address that is not related to the FDIC server.
     * Other status codes and values resulting from the Web server
       responding to the request received: HTTP status code, Windows NT
       code, number of bytes sent, number of bytes received, duration (in
       seconds) to fulfill the request, server port number addressed, and
       protocol version.
     * For a brief period at the beginning of 2002, FDIC's home page will
       include a small program to collect information on the screen
       resolution setting of your PC (e.g. 800 x 600, 1280 x 1024, etc.).
       This information will be used to adjust FDIC design standards so
       the pages we produce will be as readable as possible on your
       computer display.

   Some parts of the FDIC Web site may use a "cookie", which is a file
   placed on your computer hard drive, that allows the FDIC web server to
   log the pages you use in the FDIC site and to determine if you have
   visited the site before. The cookie captures no personally identifying
   information. The FDIC server uses this information to provide certain
   features during your visit to the Web site. You can set your browser to
   warn you when placement of a cookie is requested, and decide whether or
   not to accept it. By rejecting a cookie some of the features available
   on the site may not function properly.

   Other than the automatic data collection described above, this site
   collects no personally identifying information. The sole exception is
   when you knowingly and voluntarily provide information, such as when
   you fill in your name and address on the FOIA request form.

   The FDIC uses the information we collect for internal system
   administrative purposes to measure the volume of requests for specific
   web site pages, and to continually improve the FDIC Internet site to be
   responsive to the needs of users. Your choice to use the FDIC Web site
   or to send electronic mail to FDIC will be considered your consent for
   the FDIC to use the information collected therefrom as stated in this
   notice.

   Intrusion Detection Monitoring

   This government computer system employs software security programs to
   monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or
   change information, or otherwise cause damage. Such attempts are
   strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the Computer Fraud and
   Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure
   Protection Act. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations,
   no other attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
   habits.

   Information Collected From You

   You may decide to send the FDIC information, including personally
   identifying information. The information you supply whether through a
   secure Web form, a standard Web form, or by sending an electronic mail
   message is maintained by the FDIC for the purpose of processing your
   request or inquiry. The FDIC also uses the information you supply in
   other ways to further the FDICs mission of maintaining stability and
   public confidence in the nations banking system.

   Various employees of the FDIC may see the information you submit in the
   course of their official duties. The information may also be shared by
   the FDIC with third parties to advance the purpose for which you
   provide the information, including other federal or state government
   agencies. For example, if you file a complaint, it may be sent to a
   financial institution for action, or information may be supplied to the
   Department of Justice in the event it appears that federal criminal
   statutes have been violated by an entity you are reporting to the FDIC.
   The primary use of personally identifying information will be to enable
   the government to contact you in the event we have questions regarding
   the information you have reported.

   Under certain circumstances, the FDIC may be required by law to
   disclose information you submit to the Corporation, for example, to
   respond to a Congressional inquiry or subpoena.

   If you register with an FDIC online mailing list, the information you
   provide may also be used to send you FDIC communiqués or notify you
   about updates to our web site.

   When you choose to send e-mail to the FDIC you are consenting to the
   FDIC using the information provided therein, including personally
   identifying information, in accordance with this notice, unless you
   expressly state in the e-mail your objection to any use(s).

   As required by federal law, Privacy Act statements are located
   throughout this web site where the FDIC requests information from you.

   Contacting the FDIC About This Web Site

   If you are concerned about how information about you may have been used
   in connection with this web site, or you have questions about the FDICs
   privacy policy and information practices you should contact:

     FDIC Webmaster
     FDIC
     550 17th Street, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20429

     E-mail: webmaster@fdic.gov

   Electronic mail is not necessarily secure. You should be very cautious
   when sending electronic mail containing sensitive, confidential
   information. As an alternative, you should give consideration to
   sending it by postal mail.

   Last Updated 12/28/2001 webmaster@fdic.gov

   Sitemap | Search | Help | Home
