http://law2.house.gov/about.htm

   #Feedback form

   LRC Home, Search USC, Download USC, Classification Tables, Codification

   Seal

       Office of the Law Revision Counsel

   About the Office and the United States Code

   The Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the U.S. House of
   Representatives prepares and publishes the United States Code pursuant
   to section 285b of title 2 of the Code. The Code is a consolidation and
   codification by subject matter of the general and permanent laws of the
   United States.

   The Code does not include regulations issued by executive branch
   agencies, decisions of the Federal courts, treaties, or laws enacted by
   State or local governments. Regulations issued by executive branch
   agencies are available in the Code of Federal Regulations. Proposed and
   recently adopted regulations may be found in the Federal Register.

   Certain titles of the Code have been enacted into positive law, and
   pursuant to section 204 of title 1 of the Code, the text of those
   titles is legal evidence of the law contained in those titles. The
   other titles of the Code are prima facie evidence of the laws contained
   in those titles. The following titles of the Code have been enacted
   into positive law: 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 17, 18, 23, 28, 31,
   32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 44, 46, and 49.

   Titles 1 to 26 are based on the 2000 edition (January 2, 2001) of the
   Code. Titles 26 appendix to 50, the Table of Popular Names, the Organic
   Laws and Tables I-IX are based on Supplement V (January 23, 2000) to
   the 1994 edition of the Code. Each section of the Code database
   contains a date in the top-right corner indicating that laws enacted as
   of that date and affecting that section are included in the text of
   that section. When a search is made for a specific section of the Code,
   as opposed to a search for certain words appearing in the Code, the hit
   list will include an "Update" item listing any amendments not already
   reflected in the text of that section.

   The Classification Tables include Public Law 106-1 through Public Law
   107-136, approved January 24, 2002. The tables show where recently
   enacted laws will appear in the Code and which sections of the Code
   have been amended by those laws. They provide a separate method of
   identifying any amendments to a section not already reflected in the
   text of that section.

   While every effort has been made to ensure that the Code database on
   the web site is accurate, those using it for legal research should
   verify their results against the printed version of the United States
   Code available through the Government Printing Office.

   Please send your comments by e-mail to usc@mail.house.gov or by using
   the form at http://www.house.gov/lrc/law_comments.html.

   LRC Home, Search USC, Download USC, Classification Tables, Codification
