http://connect.larc.nasa.gov/educators.html

   NASA CONNECT Logo Skip Nav Bar Home " " Educators Parents Index

   2001-2002 Season " " Lesson Guides " " Air Times " " Library of Shows "
   " Get a Mentor " " Resources " " Register " " Feedback " "

   Educators
   NASA Logo WHAT IS NASA CONNECT?

   NASA CONNECT is an annual series of FREE integrated mathematics,
   science, and technology instructional distance learning programs for
   students in grades 6-8. Each program has three components: (1) a
   30-minute television broadcast, which can be viewed live or taped for
   later use; (2) an interactive web activity which provides educators an
   opportunity to use technology in the classroom setting; and (3) a
   lesson guide describing a hands-on activity. These three components —
   television broadcast, web activity, and lesson guide — are designed as
   an integrated instructional package.
   NASA CONNECT is FREE to educators. Registered educators will receive,
   via E-mail, the date of upcoming shows, a show summary, and a PDF
   version of the lesson guide. NASA CONNECT is a U.S. Government product
   and is not subject to copyright. There are no fees or licensing
   agreements. Broadcast and off air rights are unlimited and granted in
   perpetuity.
   Endorsed by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM),
   NASA CONNECT supports national mathematics, science, and technology
   standards. The 2001-2002 series uses proportional reasoning as the
   "integrative thread" that "connects" mathematics topics in each
   program. NASA CONNECT seeks to establish a "connection" between the
   mathematics, science, and technology concepts taught in the classroom
   and the mathematics, science, and technology used everyday by NASA
   researchers. By demonstrating the processes of creativity, critical
   thinking, and problem solving skills, NASA CONNECT enhances and
   enriches mathematics, science, and technology education.

   HOW CAN I GET THE TELEVISION BROADCAST?
     * The shows are broadcast on Ku- and C-band satellite and can be
       downlinked using the satellite coordinates.
     * NASA CONNECT shows are carried by over 130 PBS stations, Channel
       One, and on many Cable Access Channels. Check for viewing in your
       locality.
     * Shows are available on the web through NASA’s Learning Technologies
       Channel.
     * Video copies of the broadcast can be obtained from the NASA
       Educator Resource Center in your state or from the NASA Central
       Operation of Resources for Educators.

   HOW CAN I GET CONNECTED TO NASA CONNECT?

                    1. Register, 2. Access, 3. Integrate

   " "

                                  NASA Logo
   Produced by the NASA LaRC Office of Education. Responsible NASA
   Official: Dr. Thomas E. Pinelli, Distance Learning Officer.
   Privacy Policy. Rights & Use information. Questions or Comments? E-mail
   them to connect@edu.larc.nasa.gov
