http://www.amtrakreformcouncil.gov/testimonies/test092600.pdf

   ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL !!!! !!!! !!!! THE
   COUNCIL BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND T Gilbert E.
   Carmichael RANSPORTATION Chairman Paul M. Weyrich U.S. SENATE Vice
   Chairman ___________________________________________________ Bruce
   Chapman Nancy Rutledge Connery For Release on Delivery James E. Coston
   9:30 a.m. EST Wendell Cox Tuesday, September 26, 2000 Christopher K.
   Gleason S. Lee Kling Charles Moneypenny Hon. John O. Norquist Testimony
   from the Hon. Rodney Slater AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
   Thomas A. Till Statement of Gilbert E. Carmichael, Chairman JM-ARC,
   Room 7105 Phone: (202) 366-0591 400 Seventh Street, SW Fax: (202)
   493-2061 Washington, DC 20590 ! ! ! ! The ARC is an independent federal
   commission established under the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act
   of 1997 (P. L. 105-134) STATEMENT OF GILBERT E. CARMICHAEL, CHAIRMAN OF
   THE AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE,
   AND TRANSPORTATION, UNITED STATES SENATE SEPTEMBER 26, 2000 Mr.
   Chairman, thank you for inviting the Amtrak Reform Council to address
   your Committee's oversight hearing on Amtrak. While I am alone at the
   witness table, I would like to introduce other members of the Reform
   Council who are here today for this important hearing. These members
   include James Coston, appointed by Senate Minority Leader Daschle, and
   the newest member of the Council, Nancy Rutledge Connery, appointed by
   Senate Majority Leader Lott. Also present is a representative of the
   Federal Railroad Administration, representing the Secretary of
   Transportation's ex officio position on the Council. Mr. Chairman, one
   of my key objectives as the Council's Chairman is to focus the
   substantial experience and insight of the Council's members on solid
   analyses and initiatives designed to improve intercity rail passenger
   service. Through the earnest efforts of the Council's members,
   supported by our staff, I believe we have forged a pragmatic bipartisan
   majority that brings a practical and realistic perspective to the
   issues the Congress has charged the Council to address. As you
   requested, the Council has provided to the Committee a statement that
   addresses in detail each of the topics that you raised in your letter
   of invitation. This morning I will summarize for you the Council's view
   on Amtrak's recent performance and the Council's views on the proposed
   High-Speed Rail Investment Act bonds, designed to continue and expand
   the task of developing the federally-designated high-speed rail
   corridors throughout this country. My summary will include: * Results
   of Amtrak's use of new authorities provided by the Reform Act; *
   Comments on financial performance and Amtrak's progress toward
   self-sufficiency; * A brief overview of the Council's perspective on
   where things stand, as context for the Council's views; and * The
   Council's view of the proposed High-Speed Rail Investment bonds. HOW
   AMTRAK HAS USED ITS NEW AUTHORITIES PROVIDED UNDER THE ACT AND WHAT
   COST SAVINGS THE LEGISLATIVE REFORMS HAVE ACTUALLY GENERATED The
   reforms set forth in the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997
   ("the Reform Act" or "ARAA"), among other objectives, were intended to
   eliminate statutory obstacles to essential Amtrak operational,
   financial and productivity improvements and to provide Amtrak with
   additional authority to operate more like a private, for-profit
   business. To this end, the Act, in its major provisions: (1) repealed
   Amtrak's obligation to provide rail passenger service within the "basic
   system" defined by statute and provided Amtrak with complete authority
   to determine its national system of routes and services in response to
   the marketplace [ARAA Sec.101]; (2) repealed the specific statutory
   requirements for labor protection payments for route closures and work
   transfers and placed the disposition of this issue on the
   labor-management collective bargaining table [ARAA Secs. 141, 142]; and
   (3) repealed the statutory prohibition against contracting out work and
   required that this issue be placed on the collective bargaining table
   commencing no later than November 1, 1999 [ARAA Sec.121]. The Act also
   encouraged Amtrak to achieve management efficiencies and revenue
   enhancements. In this regard, it charged the Council with monitoring
   Amtrak's efforts to achieve labor productivity improvements and
   required Amtrak, if it entered into an agreement with its union
   employees after January 1, 1997 involving work-rules intended to
   achieve savings, to report quarterly to the Council both the savings
   realized as a result of the agreement and how the savings are
   allocated. The Act requires the Council to submit an annual report to
   Congress that includes an assessment of Amtrak's progress on the
   resolution of productivity issues or the status of those issues [ARAA
   Sec. 203]. Based on information furnished by Amtrak, it is the
   Council's understanding that Amtrak has utilized its new flexibility
   under the Act as follows. A. Modifications to the National Route System
   To assist Amtrak in identifying economically attractive route closures
   and realignments, as well as to assist in overall business planning,
   Amtrak has developed a new strategic planning methodology called the
   Market Based Network Analysis (MBNA). The MBNA has an associated
   Financial Model that estimates, for alternative packages of rail
   passenger services and revenues, the expected costs and profitability
   of a proposed route or system of routes. Using the MBNA to assess its
   route system, Amtrak developed a plan for realignments and extensions
   of its route system, which it called the Network Growth Strategy (NGS).
   Amtrak announced the NGS in late winter of this fiscal year. The
   Council has not yet had an opportunity to fully analyze it since it was
   not reflected in Amtrak's FY2000 Strategic Business Plan and since many
   of the NGS actions have not been fully implemented. Based on its NGS
   analysis, Amtrak has proposed to add additional routes and frequencies
   to its current service. Accordingly, no cost savings have yet resulted
   from the additional flexibility provided Amtrak to determine its
   national service network free from statutory restrictions. After the
   Council completes its analysis of the NGS, it will examine Amtrak's
   specific route and 2 service proposals. Under the ARAA, the Council is
   charged with making recommendations for changes in Amtrak's route
   structure based on Amtrak's criteria. B. Labor Protection Payments
   Amtrak and its unions chose to address the issue of labor protection as
   required under the Act through binding arbitration. In a November 1999
   decision, the arbitration board modified the pre-existing employee
   protective provisions (as regards major aspects) as follows: (a) Under
   pre-existing law, any affected Amtrak employee was entitled to wage and
   benefit protection for a period equal to the amount of service, not to
   exceed 6 years; under the arbitration award, an Amtrak employee must
   have two years of service to be awarded protection. (b) The maximum
   duration of employee protective benefits was reduced from 6 years to 5
   years, and employees must have more years of service than previously,
   on a sliding scale, to reach maximum benefits. For example, an employee
   with 3-5 years of service would receive 12 months' benefits; an
   employee with 20-25 years of service would receive 48 months' benefits.
   (According to Amtrak, approximately 20 percent of current Amtrak
   employees eligible for labor protection have more than 20 years of
   service and would be entitled to 4-5 years of income protection for a
   "trigger occurrence" if unable to exercise seniority.) (c) The
   arbitration panel agreed that no employee protection would be required
   for the first two years of any new service commenced after the
   arbitration. (d) The issue of whether labor protection would apply to
   the termination of non-commuter contracts for local or state service
   was remanded for further negotiation and re- submission to arbitration
   if there is no agreement. (The arbitration panel found that Amtrak had
   no obligation for labor protection with respect to commuter contracts.)
   According to Amtrak, the issue remanded is still under negotiation and
   there are open issues that may be resubmitted to the arbitration panel.
   (e) The "triggers" for the imposition of employee protective benefits
   remained the same: (1) closure of a route or reduction in frequency
   below three round trips per week; or, as affects shop employees, (2)
   closure of a maintenance shop facility or transfer of work from the
   facility to another facility more than 30 miles away. (f) The
   arbitration award provided that it may be further amended by the
   parties through negotiation after January 1, 2000. Despite the
   improvements achieved by Amtrak through the arbitration award, Amtrak's
   new labor protection obligations to employees, particularly those with
   many years of service, remain significantly higher than those of
   non-railroad corporations in the United States. No widespread "trigger
   occurrence" has taken place on Amtrak as yet that would give rise to
   labor protection payments. Should such an occurrence take place, there
   would be cost savings generated by the arbitration award modifying
   Amtrak's labor protection obligations. 3 C. Contracting Out As of the
   date of the Council's first annual report to Congress (January 2000),
   Amtrak had not undertaken studies to determine whether contracting out
   any of its operations would improve its financial performance. Amtrak
   also had not served Section 6 notices under the Railway Labor Act
   placing the contracting out issue on the bargaining table, which the
   ARAA required Amtrak to do by November 1, 1999. The Council is informed
   by Amtrak that it served Section 6 notices on June 12, 2000 placing the
   contracting out issue on the bargaining table. Amtrak, accordingly,
   considers the contracting out issue to be currently under active
   negotiation with unions representing Amtrak employees. Amtrak considers
   the specific contracting out issues it placed on the bargaining table
   to be confidential. Because Amtrak has not yet contracted out work
   under the new authority provided in the ARAA, there are no cost savings
   as yet to be reported. The Act, moreover, puts no deadline on the
   collective bargaining process with respect to the issue of contracting
   out, nor does it require Amtrak and union representatives to reach
   agreement on the issue of contracting out. D. Productivity Improvements
   Amtrak has achieved some changes in work rules in its recent agreements
   that have the potential to result in labor cost savings. Some of the
   more important changes include: contracting out Amtrak's entire
   Commissary operations to an outside contractor, eliminating
   approximately 244 positions through employee buy-outs (Amtrak has had
   statutory authority to contract out its food service operations since
   1981); extension of the period from 4 hours to 6 hours before a second
   engineer must be added to an engine consist (Amtrak estimates that this
   will permit the elimination of over 50 positions in the short term, and
   another 30 positions in FY1999 and FY2000); and providing Amtrak
   management with additional flexibility to assign work with respect to
   the implementation of high speed service on the NEC (no specific
   savings calculations provided). Under the ARAA, Amtrak is required to
   report quarterly to the Council regarding work rules savings resulting
   from recent agreements, including how the savings are allocated. Under
   recent agreements, Amtrak's labor costs have grown by approximately 10
   percent above the rate of inflation since 1995. (See May 2000 GAO
   Report "Amtrak Will Continue to Have Difficulty Controlling Its Costs
   and Meeting Capital Needs"("GAO Report") at 8.) Amtrak's stated goal is
   to partially (20%) offset recent wage increases through labor
   productivity improvements. Amtrak submitted to the Council a set of
   numbers on a quarter-by-quarter basis stating a "final" total of $21.3
   million in "productivity improvements and work rules and cash savings"
   for FY1999. The report did not show how the savings were allocated and
   provided no analysis of how the numbers were calculated. For the first
   three quarters of FY2000, Amtrak submitted a comparable report stating
   a preliminary total of $19.5 million in "productivity improvements,
   work rule and cash savings from post-January 1, 1997 labor agreements."
   Similarly, the report did not show how the savings were allocated nor
   how the numbers were calculated. 4 As found by both the Council (in its
   January 2000 report) and the General Accounting Office (in its May 2000
   report), there is no way to confirm Amtrak's productivity calculations
   nor to distinguish how much the stated savings are instead attributable
   to internal Amtrak departmental budget cuts. Amtrak has no methodology
   in place by which it can measure work rule savings nor does it maintain
   an audit trail of the information necessary to measure such changes.
   (See Council Report at 20; GAO Report at 27,n.14). Moreover, as further
   noted by the Council and GAO reports, Amtrak currently "does not have
   standard measures of labor productivity for its different lines of
   business (e.g., intercity passenger service, commuter service)."GAO
   Report at 26; Council report at 20. Both the Council and the GAO
   believe that the development of standard measures of productivity is
   critical if Amtrak is to control its labor costs (which constitute over
   50 percent of operating costs).1 Amtrak has stated in response to the
   GAO Report that it intends to develop such measures (GAO Report at 5).
   Under subsection 203(f) of the ARAA, Amtrak is required to make
   available to the Council all information that the Council needs to
   carry out its duties. The Council, in turn, must adopt procedures to
   protect against public disclosure of confidential information. Although
   the Council staff has negotiated a confidentiality agreement with
   Amtrak, Amtrak has to-date declined to provide Council staff with
   information (particularly relating to labor productivity) that it deems
   confidential. The Council is working with Amtrak to secure additional
   productivity data and to agree on acceptable methodologies for
   measuring labor cost savings and monitoring general labor productivity.
   PROGRESS TOWARD SELF-SUFFICIENCY While there is a general understanding
   among people knowledgeable about Amtrak that Amtrak has made some
   improvements in its financial and operating performance, and that
   Amtrak has achieved many of the objectives of its strategic business
   plan through the first half of FY2000, Amtrak needs to achieve
   significantly greater improvements beginning in FY2001 for Amtrak to
   achieve operating self-sufficiency by FY2003 as required by the ARAA.
   A. Key Points From Recent Audits and Reports by the DOT/IG and the GAO.
   This hearing will undoubtedly hear in detail from Kenneth Mead, the
   Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, about his
   office's September 19, 2000, report, "2000 Assessment of Amtrak's
   Financial Performance and Requirements." According to an article in
   last Friday's Washington Post, Amtrak largely agrees with Mr. Mead's
   assessment, as does the Council. We would just like to highlight a few
   of the points that report made, from the perspective of the Council. 1
   Indeed, the Council has not been able to find management or
   benchmarking systems in place at Amtrak to measure the productivity of
   any of Amtrak's endeavors, not just the management of its work force. 5
   Starting from the DOT IG's point that Amtrak has indeed increased its
   ridership and revenue in 1999 and 2000, but that it must curtail its
   expense growth to achieve operating self-sufficiency in 2003, we would
   move on to quote two points: * "Without major corrective action, Amtrak
   will not achieve operating self-sufficiency in 2003." Specifically,
   Amtrak needs to achieve $737 million in savings from undefined
   management actions, and it needs to achieve its revenue forecasts for
   Acela Express and other Northeast Corridor service despite a revenue
   risk identified by the Inspector General's report of $304 million. *
   "Amtrak's capital outlook is grave." Amtrak will face serious capital
   shortfalls beginning in FY2001. Even assuming Amtrak's cash losses are
   no higher than Amtrak projects, Amtrak will face a minimum funding
   shortfall of $91 million, and continued shortfalls through 2004 will
   total $298 million. The Council thinks it is important to note that
   this capital shortfall reflects, in part, a less than optimal use by
   Amtrak of its TRA funds. You also asked the Council, Mr. Chairman, to
   comment on the May 2000 report of the United States General Accounting
   Office, "Intercity Passenger Rail, Amtrak Will Continue To Have
   Difficulty Controlling Its Costs And Meeting Capital Needs." This
   report made a number of findings consistent with the Inspector
   General's report and findings of the Amtrak Reform Council. * While its
   performance has improved in recent years, from 1995 to 1999, Amtrak's
   operating costs were, in total, about $150 million more than planned. *
   Amtrak has no measures of labor productivity for its lines of business
   (e.g., intercity passenger service, commuter service) that could help
   it better manage its labor costs.2 * Because future cost increases can
   be expected, it will be critical for Amtrak to achieve the revenue
   projections for such things as its high-speed rail program on the
   Northeast Corridor. * GAO estimates Amtrak has short- and long-term
   capital investment needs totaling about $9.1 billion through 2015 plus
   additional capital investment needs for which costs estimates have not
   yet been developed. * GAO recommended that Amtrak develop measures of
   labor productivity for its different lines of business and a multiyear
   capital plan. Amtrak agreed to these recommendations. B. Amtrak's
   Recent Financial Performance Although Amtrak's actual financial
   performance as measured by its "Budget Result" was slightly ahead of
   its Strategic Business Plan projections through the second quarter of
   its fiscal year 2 See Footnote 1 6 (March 31, 2000), Amtrak was $9.5
   million below its Budget Result after the third quarter (June 30,
   2000), and its financial performance for the balance of FY2000 is
   likely to be increasingly unfavorable relative to its FY2000 Budget due
   primarily to shortfalls in passenger and mail/express revenues
   attributable to delays in the introduction of Acela Express service and
   lower growth of mail/express revenues. Amtrak's system revenues
   increased 7% from FY1998 to FY1999, and system revenues were up 11% in
   the first nine months of FY2000 relative to FY1999, which was
   essentially consistent with projected revenue levels in the FY2000
   Strategic Business Plan. After increasing 2% in FY1999 over FY1998,
   ridership was up 3.5% during the first nine months of FY2000, but 1.2%
   below the Strategic Business Plan projection. Amtrak achieved its
   Business Plan revenue projections while falling short of its ridership
   levels due to higher average ticket prices than projected. Total system
   expenses increased 7% from FY1998 to FY1999, and they were up 7% in the
   first nine months of FY2000 relative to FY1999, which was approximately
   1% (or $14 million) worse than projected in the FY2000 Strategic
   Business Plan. It is important to note, however, in comparing changes
   in revenues and changes in expenses, that since Amtrak's expenses
   exceed its revenues by a large amount, operating losses were
   approximately $16 million greater than projected in the Strategic
   Business Plan for the first 9 months of FY2000 even though FY2000
   revenues were essentially on Plan. Amtrak's cash losses were $54
   million greater in FY1999 than FY1998. Amtrak's cash losses were $27
   million (6%) lower in the first 9 months of FY2000 than FY1999, but
   they are $22 million (5%) behind its Strategic Business Plan
   projection. We believe, together with the Office of the DOT Inspector
   General and the GAO, that while Amtrak arguably has achieved many of
   its Plan objectives during the past two years, most the "heavy lifting"
   in terms of improving the Corporation's bottom line lies ahead, with
   even greater need for annual improvements starting in FY2001. Although
   the general trend of Amtrak's financial performance has been improving
   in recent months because of increased ridership  due in part to new
   services and to historic levels of congestion in the aviation system,
   particularly in the Northeast Corridor  the delay of Acela has meant
   that Amtrak is going to end this year significantly (approximately $75
   million) below Plan. WHERE DOES THE COUNCIL STAND AND WHAT DOES IT SEE?
   Mr. Chairman, in a recent conversation, Senator Lott told me that he
   wants the Council, as part of its statutory duties of making
   recommendations for improvements, to give the Congress a plan for a new
   modern national rail passenger system and to make sure we include
   recommendations about how to fund it. In the broader context, Mr.
   Chairman, I think Senator Lott's request captures the essence of what
   the Congress in the Reform Act asked the Council to do  regardless of
   whether there is ever a need for a finding as to Amtrak's
   self-sufficiency. 7 After about 18 months of full operations, Mr.
   Chairman, I feel that this Council has come together quite well and
   that it has developed a solid perspective on the situation of intercity
   rail passenger rail service in America today. A. The Situation Today
   Mr. Chairman, we are now looking at a domestic intercity transportation
   picture that for the first time in many years, actually needs the rail
   passenger mode in many important transportation markets in this nation.
   Air and road congestion in critical city pairs and regions have brought
   us to this position. The States, or at least a significant number of
   them that are faced with the need to find additional useful intercity
   transportation capacity, are being aggressive in their pursuit of
   opportunities for improved intercity rail passenger service. The
   Council also sees a federal government  both executive and legislative
   that has: * Provided Amtrak, which by law is now a private,
   federally-chartered District of Columbia corporation, as the sole
   national instrument for operating and improving intercity rail
   passenger service in this nation today; and * Designated 11 emerging
   high-speed rail corridors  to go with two already-established corridors
   (the Northeast Corridor and New York's Empire Corridor). B. Amtrak
   Today, as Analyzed and Reported by the Council Amtrak is a
   conglomerate, trying to carry out many major functions in addition to
   its core mission. That mission is to operate a national system of
   intercity rail passenger, mail and express services, which is what
   Amtrak was established to do. In the Acela delay, which it now seems
   may be coming to an end, Amtrak is facing a critical obstacle to
   self-sufficiency. But it is important to note that Acela  even if it
   achieves the results that Amtrak forecasts  will provide significantly
   less than half of the financial performance improvements that the DOT
   IG's report says that Amtrak needs to achieve. Its Northeast Corridor
   infrastructure is also a problem. The Council has recommended that
   Amtrak keep separate financial statements on it. If it were a separate
   corporate division of Amtrak, it might be able to raise its own funds
   in capital markets. Amtrak has had, and continues to have, major
   problems achieving improvements in all areas of productivity, including
   its use of capital, labor, and materials. That said, the Council does
   not regard labor as the problem at Amtrak. The real problem is the
   overall structure of the corporation's management, exacerbated by
   inadequate information systems, and a lack of accountability  division
   by division and function by function  for bottom line results. Amtrak 8
   is also subject to substantial and continuing political interference,
   which seriously hampers its ability to operate like a business. Amtrak
   operates a fleet of passenger cars that is too old and too small. It
   needs new equipment to provide better service that will attract new
   riders and haul more mail and express traffic. The Council believes
   that much, if not all, of this equipment should be able to be financed
   by private capital markets. It needs better infrastructure on which to
   operate, both in the NEC and throughout the other 12 corridors. But
   this is far from just Amtrak's problem. To do all this, our nation
   needs a new system of financing for rail passenger service, which means
   that the government should put on its policy hat and design one for it,
   looking both at infrastructure and equipment and the roles of
   government financing and private capital markets. This brings me to the
   question as to how the proposed bonds fit into all of this. THE
   PROPOSAL TO AUTHORIZE SPECIAL BONDS TO FINANCE HIGH-SPEED RAIL
   INVESTMENTS When the Council was asked by the Senate Commerce Committee
   to testify at this hearing on Amtrak issues, including providing the
   Council's views on the proposed "High Speed Rail Investment Act"
   (S.1900 and H.R. 3700), I directed the staff to send a memorandum to
   all Council members to determine the views of each Council member as to
   whether the Council should support or oppose the passage of this
   legislation. The results of the poll are as follows. Nine of the eleven
   Council members supported the proposed legislation with certain
   modifications: (1) the Bonds can be issued by "an intercity passenger
   rail carrier," which would include state high speed rail authorities,
   not just by Amtrak; (2) priority should be given to use the Bond
   funding for infrastructure only, and should only be used for equipment
   if private financing is not available3; and (3) Bond funds be
   segregated from the operating bank accounts of Amtrak and other
   intercity passenger rail carriers' that might issue Bonds, and not be
   treated as fungible assets of these corporations. (This would be a
   change from the way that Amtrak dealt with the Taxpayer Relief Act
   funds in terms of interim use and investment.) Several Council members
   believe that the Council has no business taking a position on certain
   tax-related issues that are more appropriately issues for others to
   determine. An example of such issues are the Department of the
   Treasury's current limitations on private activity tax-exempt bonds and
   requirements that proceeds from tax-exempt bonds be expended within
   three years of the time that tax exempt bonds are issued by the States.
   [A summary of the specific issues proposed to the Council members as
   part of their "vote" is found at Attachment I]. The two remaining
   members had different positions. Mr. Moneypenny, the Presidentially-
   designated member representing the views of rail labor, expressed the
   view that the Council should not take a position on the bonds. The
   Administration indicated that it was in the process 3 The Council
   believes passenger equipment can be funded in large part by the private
   sector. 9 of determining its position and that, when its position was
   determined, it would so advise the Council. As of the time of the
   submission of this testimony to the Committee, the Council had not
   received notice of the Administration's position. We are treating that
   as a temporary abstention. Mr. Chairman, should these bonds not pass in
   this session of the Congress, it is likely that other ways could be
   found to finance high-speed rail, including the federally-designated
   high-speed rail corridors. Such proposals might best be developed, I
   believe, from a well-considered effort by experts in transportation
   policy and finance to determine a modern Intermodal Surface
   Transportation Policy and an accompanying array of financing mechanisms
   needed to fund improvements in intercity passenger rail infrastructure
   and equipment. The Council will be ready to participate in any such
   discussion and debate about how to best do the job. This effort would
   have to start with a comprehensive capital needs plan, which Amtrak has
   not provided, aside from its 25-year estimate of capital needs for the
   south end of the Northeast Corridor. Is $10 billion needed? Without a
   doubt. And considerably more, in fact, if we are serious about
   improving and expanding intercity rail passenger service. The Reform
   Act charges the Council with a positive mission  to recommend
   improvements in Amtrak and, if Amtrak cannot improve to the extent the
   Congress requires, to design an improved national intercity rail
   passenger system. The Council was established to determine the best way
   to improve our national rail passenger system, and we see the need for
   a major investment in passenger rail service over the coming years.
   Assuming that, in some form and at some time, $1 billion per year for
   Corridor Development is provided, that amount could easily be matched
   by as much as $1 billion per year for other needs. These other needs
   include additional funding for the NEC and the emerging corridors,
   enhancements to the current national rail passenger system and to
   Amtrak's mail and express operations, and implementation of the Network
   Growth Strategy. Let me preface all this by saying that  on behalf of
   the Council  I think we would not be doing our duty as an independent
   oversight agency if we did not point one thing out. The reason we are
   we are all facing the very difficult issues that these bonds pose  and
   here I quote from the Council's first annual report  is that: "Unlike
   roads and air, however, neither local or state governments nor the
   federal government have determined an institutional and financial
   solution for adding the track and equipment capacity to provide an
   expanded system of intercity rail passenger service. The
   privately-owned rail freight rights-of-way present unique issues
   compared to the publicly-owned and publicly-funded national systems of
   highways, airports, and airways. Rail rights-of-way, unlike other modes
   of transportation, do not have a stable funding mechanism for rail
   passenger corridor development." (Amtrak Reform Council, First Annual
   Report, January 2000, p.1) So we should realize that  under our current
   transportation policy  we are using Amtrak to do what in other modes is
   done by two separate and separately funded types of organizations, one
   focusing on infrastructure, and one focusing on transport operations.
   The first is exemplified by the roles of the Federal Highway
   Administration operating in concert with the state highway departments,
   the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Corps of Engineers. The
   role of 10 transport operations is  in all of these other modes
   carried out by operating companies that carry passengers, mail, and
   express. Companies in modes other than rail are not entangled with huge
   infrastructure funding burdens; they pay a user fee for the
   infrastructure and focus their attention on serving the traveling
   public. I know Mr. Chairman that this committee is much concerned with
   the problems of the aviation system today, and we each have our own
   stories about the stress of contemporary airline travel. But the
   problems of the airlines and the aviation system are the problems of
   success. Each year for the past three years the airlines have been
   adding more intercity passengers than Amtrak carries annually in total.
   And they have been adding each year as many or more employees than
   Amtrak's total complement of agreement employees. The question the
   Council is asking is "What is the best way to get rail passenger
   service to begin to share in the economic bonanza that is causing
   problems for air and highway travel?" Against this backdrop, the
   Council's concern with this legislation has two dimensions  policy and
   practicality. From an overall policy standpoint, has this approach
   really been thought through thoroughly? Is the mechanism of these
   bonds, aside from the matter of who issues them, the best way to
   finance passenger rail capital needs? I would think that it depends on
   what part of those needs you are looking at. It is almost certainly not
   a sound way to fund the capital needs of Amtrak the corporation. But it
   might well be a reasonable way to fund long-term infrastructure
   improvements to the FDHSRCs. That raises these specific policy issues:
   1. Is Amtrak the corporation, from all standpoints the best vehicle for
   issuing these bonds? * It does have about $5 billion in Net Operating
   Loss Carryovers (NOLs), but these exist because historical government
   subsidies were made in the form of preferred stock investments in
   Amtrak by the government, which arguably should have been characterized
   as operating grants rather than capital investments. * What about
   Amtrak's balance sheet? Should it be burdened with $10 billion in debt
   (or contingent liability debt) for improvements to the infrastructure,
   most of which it does not own? What will this do to Amtrak's ability to
   borrow in private markets? * Should we be loading major program and
   financing responsibilities on a corporation which is clearly having
   difficulties getting its core business to run well, and which is facing
   the need to achieve self-sufficiency by December 2, 2002? 2. Has there
   been a clear assessment of the best potential roles of public financing
   and private capital markets? 3. And finally, has there been any solid
   attempt to determine the best possible way for money to be put into the
   infrastructure improvements of America's private railroads in order to
   provide the capacity and speed improvements needed to implement the 11
   Federally-Designated High-Speed Rail Corridors? [Attachment II shows
   that, under the most favorable assumptions, over 30 years the taxpayers
   (federal and state) will pay at least $15 billion (and possibly as much
   as $18 billion) for $10 billion of high speed rail projects]. The
   proposed bond mechanism in effect uses Amtrak as a sort of Fannie Mae
   for the infrastructure of the railroad industry. One reason for the
   choice is clear  the $5 billion in NOLs that the corporation holds
   because of the subsidies it received previously from the government.
   These NOLs shelter the escrow Fund's taxable interest income needed to
   grow on a compounded basis and be available in 20 years to repay the
   bonds. This is where issues of practicality come in. In the event that
   the Congress decides to pass the bond bill in this session, the Council
   believes that it should be done with the following amendments: (a) The
   funds primarily should be used for infrastructure improvements, with 90
   percent for the FDHSRCs and 10 percent for non-FDHSRCs (the 10 percent
   should be allocated to non-Corridor states by DOT) and should only be
   used for equipment expenditures if private-sector financing of
   equipment is not available; (b) There should be adequate criteria for
   evaluating and assigning priority to the candidate projects, with DOT
   and the states playing the major role in the initial selection of
   projects. Amtrak should not be in the business of choosing projects
   outside the NEC. Assets outside the NEC are not Amtrak's assets, nor
   does Amtrak have a monopoly to provide rail passenger transportation in
   those areas; (c) Effective oversight arrangements need to be in place
   for the projects to be funded by the bonds; (d) All funds, including
   both state contributions and bond proceeds, should be under the control
   of the Independent Trustee and should not be able to be borrowed by
   Amtrak (or any other issuer), or otherwise be entangled with its
   internal finances. To do so would be to create a risk of having the
   proceeds entangled in the internal finances of the issuer in a way that
   could put the bond proceeds and the bond escrow account at risk in the
   event of creditors' claims (in Amtrak's case, this would include the
   risk of default on its commercial debt obligations that Amtrak, in
   Appropriations testimony, has stated that it could indeed face).
   Moreover, discussions the Council's staff has had with financial
   experts experienced in bonds indicate that, when the prospectuses for
   these Bonds are issued, if Bond proceeds are to be mixed with Amtrak's
   internal funds, it could raise the perceived financial risks of the
   Bonds. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your invitation to the
   Council. The issues you and the Committee are addressing are critical
   to the future of rail passenger service in this country, which we all
   want responsibly and effectively to promote. 12 ATTACHMENT I BACKGROUND
   PAPER ON PROPOSED CHANGES ACCEPTED AND UNDER DISCUSSION TO S. 1900 AND
   H.R. 3700 I. Issues Discussed With Amtrak and FRA, Annotated by Later
   Changes from the Senate Budget Committee Meeting The Council staff met
   with Sandra Brown (Vice President, Government Affairs) and Bill
   Erkelenz (legal counsel) of Amtrak and Mark Yachmetz (Associate
   Administrator for Railroad Development, Federal Railroad
   Administration). Ken Kolson followed up by telephone on August 24 with
   Bill Erkelenz. On September 8th, the Council staff met with Mitch
   Warren of the Senate Committee on the Budget (SCOB). A. Update on the
   Status of the Legislation. Amtrak indicated that ongoing legislative
   discussions surrounding the High Speed Rail Investment Act are now
   based on the text of H.R. 3700, not S. 1900; that Senator Lautenberg
   has agreed to the more restrictive provisions of H.R.37004; and that
   Amtrak has agreed to support certain amendments and clarifications to
   H.R.3700, which are summarized below: 1. Amtrak would support the House
   language that (a) would allow rail passenger carriers other than Amtrak
   (including specially-established State entities) to issue Bonds and (b)
   would place a 30% cap on proceeds that could be used for any corridor,
   including the NEC. Amtrak noted its interpretation that the Alaska
   Railroad was qualified to issue bonds.5 In the Budget Committee
   meeting, Mr. Warren indicated that the issue of additional potential
   issuers of the bonds had been augmented by a proposal from railway
   labor that Davis-Bacon provisions apply to all projects, regardless of
   the issuer. 2. Amtrak would support statutory criteria for Amtrak and
   DOT to apply in selecting projects (criteria similar to those used by
   the Federal Transit Administration in approving transit grants). Amtrak
   also would support oversight and greater participation by the Secretary
   of Transportation or the DOT Inspector General in the process of
   selecting projects to receive Bond funding. Mr. Warren of the Budget
   Committee indicated that work was underway to develop criteria. 3.
   Amtrak would support adoption of provisions providing for federal and
   state oversight of the projects funded and amounts expended by Amtrak
   under the Bond program, possibly using as guidance the project
   management oversight process from the transit industry with a private
   PMO ("Project Management Oversight") contractor making sure that the
   funds are expended according to the applications and grant agreements
   executed between Amtrak and the States. 4 Amtrak has indicated that it
   is willing to be bound by the additional restrictions of H.R. 3700 (no
   more than 30% of funds invested in any corridor; explicit statement
   that there is no federal guaranty of the bonds; and any "intercity
   passenger rail carrier" can issue the Bonds, not just Amtrak). 5
   Although only 10% of the proceeds of an issue each year can be used to
   improve non-designated high-speed corridors under the language of the
   bills, Amtrak interprets the language as allowing the Alaska Railroad
   to issue bonds for 10% of the maximum allowable $1 billion cap each
   year. Senator Stevens reads it this way too. 13 4. Amtrak would support
   legislation clarifying that States could use tax-exempt project revenue
   bonds to fund the States' 20% matching contributions in whole or in
   part.6 This provision could encounter U.S. Treasury Department
   opposition since it may open the door for others also to get implicit
   federal subsidies by getting authority to issue more tax-exempt project
   financing bonds. 5. Amtrak agreed to have a capital plan in place
   before any bonds are issued. Although Amtrak did not provide the
   specifications of the promised capital plan, Amtrak seemed to suggest
   that it would provide a five-year capital plan rather than a
   longer-term plan. It is expected that Amtrak's capital plan would be
   issued before the end of September. 6. Amtrak believes the 36-month
   period to make qualified expenditures may not be sufficient because it
   will take time before projects can get underway (particularly with a
   requirement for DOT approval of project plans, and possible
   requirements for Environmental Impact Statements). Chairman Shuster
   informed Amtrak that he thinks the 36-month period is too short. FRA
   noted that its experience with the Northeast Corridor Improvement
   Project supports the need for a longer spend-out period.7 Amtrak
   anticipates that approximately 20% of each years' bond funds will be
   invested in the years that the bonds are issued. In the Budget
   Committee meeting the issue was raised that Treasury regulations do not
   permit longer than three years between issuance and expenditure for the
   project to be financed. 7. Amtrak reads the language of the bills as
   requiring a State to put up its 20% match in cash (not just to make a
   written commitment) prior to the issuance of any Bonds. 8. Amtrak noted
   that the issue of who will manage a project must be resolved in each
   case. The entity that would manage the project would be specified in
   agreements among Amtrak, the states, and any freight railroad that
   might be involved. 9. Amtrak will take legal measures, to the extent
   possible, to insulate the funds held by the independent trustee (in
   what Amtrak calls an Escrow Fund) from Amtrak's creditors; Amtrak does
   not envision that a separate taxable entity will be created; Amtrak
   will pick the independent trustee using a competitive process similar
   to the one used to select the advisor to invest the TRA funds; and
   Amtrak expects that the bonds will be paid off through Guaranteed
   Investment Contracts (GICs) purchased by the trustee. Amtrak's legal
   counsel said that, if necessary, perhaps the Escrow Fund could be
   placed in a Grantor Trust to isolate it from Amtrak's general
   creditors, while allowing Amtrak's tax attributes to be used to shelter
   taxable income otherwise earned by the Escrow Fund.8 6 Amtrak noted
   that states can put up their 20% shares of funding by issuing general
   obligation tax-exempt bonds (but the states presumably would prefer to
   issue project financing bonds since such bonds are not full faith and
   credit obligations of the states). Amtrak also noted that the current
   IRS Code allows States to issue tax-exempt project financing bonds for
   high-speed train facilities as long as such trains can travel at speeds
   of 150 mph or faster for appropriate portions of their trips. 7 Mark
   Yachmetz noted during the meeting that in the approximately 19 years
   that funds were administered by the Northeast Corridor Improvement
   Project, first year funds expended never exceeded 15%, and only twice
   did first year funds expended exceed 10%. 8 Legal structures can
   isolate the Escrow Fund from Amtrak, but in an Amtrak bankruptcy
   proceeding, creditors of Amtrak could argue that the Escrow Fund should
   repay Amtrak (a) for the value of any principal payments made with
   Amtrak funds pursuant to Amtrak's guaranty of Bond principal within
   three years of an Amtrak bankruptcy, and (b) for the value of Amtrak
   tax losses used by the Escrow Fund to shelter interest income from
   federal and state income tax liability within three years of an Amtrak
   Bankruptcy. 14 10. When asked about how income taxes on Escrow Fund
   interest earnings would be paid (which Amtrak anticipates will be
   taxable for income tax purposes), Amtrak offered its remaining
   approximately $5 billion of Net Operating Loss Carryovers9 as well as
   future losses (due to depreciation, etc.) to be available to shelter
   any taxable interest income. Presumably, the same Amtrak losses would
   be available to shelter any taxable interest earnings resulting from
   temporary investments of the Bond principal of $1 billion per year
   until the funds are expended for qualified, approved projects. 11. The
   5% of the proceeds that can be used for non-qualified project
   expenditures is expected by Amtrak to be used for "soft costs" (e.g.,
   transaction costs; funds for oversight of projects [Project Management
   Oversight similar to that used for projects funded with transit grants,
   as proposed by OMB and DOT/IG] and other set-asides to ensure that no
   issue arises regarding the qualification of the Bonds).10 B. Other
   Issues Discussed. In addition to the above issues, which Amtrak
   represented as likely legislative amendments, other issues related to
   the Bonds were discussed, as indicated below: 1. When asked if certain
   types of project expenditures such as progressive overhauls could be
   funded with Bond proceeds, Amtrak indicated that they theoretically
   could. Amtrak, however, did not anticipate that the States would agree
   to use Bond funds for progressive overhauls. The FRA concurred, stating
   that although the States may approve using Bond funds and may provide
   matching State funds for capital expenditures on a Generally Accepted
   Accounting Principal (GAAP) basis (i.e., new, long-term assets or
   expenditures which rebuild or significantly increase the useful lives
   of assets), approving Bond funds for progressive overhauls was not
   likely. 2. Amtrak anticipated that the DOT or some other federal agency
   would have to approve project applications before Bond funds would be
   made available. As a result, both Amtrak and Mark Yachmetz did not
   think that Bond funds, unlike TRA funds, would be used for purposes
   that did not advance high-speed rail passenger service. 3. Freight
   railroads and other entities that benefit from the Bond funding would
   have to agree to certain requirements and restrictions pertaining to
   use and maintenance of the assets funded throughout the life cycle of
   the assets (FRA noted that there needs to be an agreement with the
   freight railroads in place prior to approval of the project and
   issuance of the Bonds). 4. The bills do not spell out how the Bond fund
   proceeds can be invested by Amtrak for the 36- month (or greater)
   temporary period before they are used to pay for qualified project
   expenditures. Amtrak intends to invest the money in high-yield
   investments, the earnings from which would go into the Escrow Fund to
   pay off the bonds. Amtrak estimates that the Escrow Fund will have to
   earn a rate of return of approximately 6.25% (rather than the 8.38%
   rate calculated by the Council staff, which assumed that Bond principal
   would be immediately spent on qualified project expenditures). This is
   because Amtrak assumes that a maximum of 20% of 9 Amtrak's audited
   financial statements report a NOL carryover balance of $8.4 billion as
   of December 31, 1998, less a $3.3 billion reduction in fiscal year 1999
   due to the funding received under Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. Since
   the Net Operating Loss (NOL) Carryovers represent losses funded by
   federal investment in Amtrak, primarily through the purchase of
   preferred stock, this approximately $5 billion of NOL Carryovers may
   not be available in the future if there is a financial recapitalization
   of Amtrak. Furthermore, depending upon the income tax treatments
   appropriate for future federal and state funding mechanisms, Amtrak may
   not generate sufficient taxable losses in the future to fully offset
   the interest income earned by the Escrow Fund. 10 The 5% could also
   allow the bonds to be sold at a small discount to their par value and
   still satisfy the statutory requirement that at least 95% of the
   proceeds are used for qualified investments. 15 the bond funds will be
   expended in the first year, not more than 40% in the next year, with
   the balance presumably being spent in the third and following years.
   Before the funds are used for project expenditures, the interest
   earnings on the invested Bond principal will go into the Escrow Fund,
   allowing a lower rate of return to be required on the 20% State
   matching funds in the Escrow Fund.11 5. When asked, Amtrak agreed that,
   under the language of the current bills, it could borrow the money for
   all or part of the 36-month "temporary investment" period at a stated
   rate of interest and deposit the interest payments in the Escrow Fund.
   Amtrak indicated that, prior to this question, no one in the
   Corporation had given any thought to Amtrak's borrowing the funds
   temporarily. 6. Amtrak interprets the bills as allowing a freight
   railroad to reimburse a state for all or part of the 20% match. Amtrak
   (and DOT) believe that any benefit to a freight railroad in improving
   its infrastructure in a high-speed corridor would also benefit Amtrak
   and intercity passenger service, even if only indirectly. 7. Mark
   Yachmetz noted that DOT was in discussions with Amtrak about the bills,
   but, as of August 23, DOT had taken no position yet. DOT may endorse
   the bills (with certain amendments), or it may not. After the meeting,
   he noted to the ARC staff that H.R.3700 was likely to be the last
   legislative opportunity to fund high-speed rail development projects
   until FY2003. II. Staff Suggestions for Improvements to Amendments
   Proposed and Description of Further Amendments Believed to be Needed
   After reviewing the improvements in the proposed legislation as
   discussed with Amtrak and DOT, the Council staff believes that some of
   the proposed amendments need strengthening and additional conditions
   should be imposed. A. Suggested Improvements to Proposed Amendments. 1.
   There should be clear investment criteria for the Secretary of
   Transportation to use in prioritizing and approving projects, and
   Amtrak should be made subject to DOT reporting requirements regarding
   project expenditures. It would be preferable for the Secretary of
   Transportation to make decisions that will shape the Nation's future
   passenger rail infrastructure. In addition: * There should be
   incentives for the states to increase the percentage of matching funds
   contributed to financing projects funded with the Bonds; this should be
   one of the criteria used by the Secretary in reviewing and assigning
   priorities to projects submitted for approval (Amtrak and DOT noted
   that this issue was currently under discussion, and this issue is a
   high priority for the Senate Budget Committee); * There should be
   incentives in place to obtain contributions from freight railroads that
   are beneficiaries of bond-financed projects (DOT and the Senate Budget
   Committee are also working on this issue). 11 Attached to this
   memorandum are analyses which show the amounts that need to be earned
   to repay Bond principal in 20 years with Bond funds (1) immediately
   spent on qualified project expenditures, and (2) invested for a period
   of time before being spent on qualified project expenditures. These
   attachments, showing both after income tax and before income tax cases,
   confirm Amtrak's assertion that an after-tax (or tax exempt) interest
   rate of approximately 6.25% for 20 years will be sufficient for the
   Escrow Fund to repay the loan principal in 20 years. 16 2. Capital
   improvements should meet the standards of Generally Accepted Accounting
   Principles. The bond proceeds would therefore be used only for capital
   expenditures for projects funding infrastructure improvements or
   equipment. Amtrak operating expenses, such as progressive overhauls or
   preventive maintenance, would not be eligible. 3. Amtrak should be
   required, on a permanent basis, to incorporate a rolling five-year
   capital investment expenditure plan into its Strategic Business
   Planning process ("rolling" means that the investment expenditure plan
   would be updated each year for the next five years as part of Amtrak's
   normal business planning process). 4. In addition to the language of
   H.R. 3700, which permits Amtrak and other intercity rail passenger
   carriers to issue Bonds, bona fide high-speed rail authorities should
   also be permitted to issue the Bonds. Rail labor has proposed that
   Davis-Bacon provisions should apply to projects financed by any issuer
   of the bonds. B. Additional Conditions That Should Be Considered 1. DOT
   should be required to maintain annual oversight of the state of good
   repair of the assets improved with investment funds: * Freight
   railroads should be required to issue reports concerning how the funds
   were expended and demonstrating that they have performed normalized
   maintenance on the segments improved with Bond funds. * Amtrak should
   be required to provide annual reports on the financial and physical
   state of good repair of the NEC infrastructure, including improvements
   made with bond funds. 2. To ensure that Bond proceeds are not mixed
   with Amtrak's operating funds in any way that could entangle the
   proceeds with any future creditors' claims, all Bond proceeds and state
   contributions should be placed in separate accounts within the Escrow
   Fund controlled and managed by the independent trustee. The temporary
   investment of the Bond funds should be limited to AAA investment grade
   securities, possibly limited to federal government obligations. 3. The
   statute should require that, within the $3 billion allocated to the
   NEC, the highest priority is to correct the remaining fire and life
   safety problems in Penn Station New York and its associated complex of
   tunnels. At a minimum, safety should be a principal criterion for the
   DOT to use in assigning priority to and selecting projects. 4. States
   should have the right to inspect Amtrak's financial records for
   Bond-funded projects. III. Impact of Changes Accepted by Amtrak and
   those Yet to Be Considered in the Bills In looking at the process that
   has occurred during the past few weeks since the hearing by the House
   Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, it seems that: 1. If, indeed,
   the bonds are intended to fund only the infrastructure improvements of
   the federally- designated high-speed rail corridors (the FDHSRCs,
   which, includes the Northeast Corridor, the Empire Corridor, and the 11
   emerging high-speed rail corridors designated under ISTEA and TEA-21),
   there is probably a better way to structure an infrastructure
   improvement program (e.g., 17 a federal-state variant of the NECIP
   program in which FRA, with assistance from FHWA, would work with the
   state DOTs and the freight railroads to upgrade infrastructure). 2. If
   this were the only vehicle that would ever be possible for funding the
   corridors, additional amendments should be considered (as discussed in
   Section II) that would ensure: (a) Funds could only be used for
   infrastructure improvements to the NEC and the FDHSRCs (plus the 10
   percent for non-FDHSRCs, which should be allocated by DOT); (b)
   Adequate criteria be in place for evaluating and assigning priority to
   the projects, with DOT playing a direct role in initially choosing
   projects. Amtrak should not be in the business of choosing projects
   outside the NEC. Assets outside the NEC are not Amtrak's assets, nor
   does Amtrak have a monopoly to provide rail passenger transportation;
   (c) Amtrak should not be eligible to manage projects, except in the
   NEC, and only there with the agreement of the participating states; (d)
   Effective oversight arrangements be in place; and (e) All funds,
   including both state contributions and bond proceeds, be under the
   control of the Independent Trustee and cannot be borrowed by Amtrak or
   otherwise be entangled with Amtrak's internal finances. The overall
   impact of these changes would be to convert the original bills, which
   appeared to be very simple instruments for providing blanket authority
   without a well-defined program objective or adequate restrictions for
   Amtrak to issue Bonds (based on Amtrak's exclusive comparative
   advantage of having about $5 billion in NOL tax carryforwards), to a
   bill designed to ensure that the Bonds would be used to fund the
   infrastructure improvements necessary to develop the FDHSRCs. The
   Council staff believes that a better approach would be to start with a
   programmatic bill designed effectively to fund the infrastructure
   improvements needed for the FDHSRCs and then to meld onto it any tax
   provisions that might be best- suited to finance the corridor
   development program. The Council clearly stated in its First Annual
   Report that it believed that Amtrak was trying to perform too many
   functions to the detriment of its ability to operate a truly effective
   intercity passenger train operating company, and that, accordingly,
   major responsibilities in such areas as infrastructure improvement
   should be left to others. This view undergirds our assessment of the
   proposed Bond legislation. 18 ATTACHMENT II REPLICATION OF JOINT
   COMMITTEE ON TAXATION ANALYSIS OF REVENUE ESTIMATE OF THE HIGH SPEED
   RAIL INVESTMENT ACT OF 2000 ($ MILLIONS) Calculated Interest Rates
   Assum ing Bonds Interest Paym ents Of 20% Of Annual Am ounts In First
   Year Bonds Are Issued 6.50% 6.50% 6.75% 6.55% 6.55% 6.57% 6.58% 6.59%
   6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60% 6.60%
   Fiscal Bonds Fiscal Years Year Issued 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
   2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
   2001 1,000 13 65 68 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66
   2002 1,000 13 68 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66
   2003 1,000 14 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2004
   1,000 13 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2005 1,000 13
   66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2006 1,000 13 66 66 66 66
   66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2007 1,000 13 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66
   66 66 66 66 2008 1,000 13 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2009
   1,000 13 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 66 2010 1,000 13 66 66 66 66 66
   66 66 66 66 66 Federal 10,000 13 78 149 210 275 342 408 474 541 607 660
   660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 Cum ulative Federal 13 91 240 449
   724 1,066 1,474 1,948 2,489 3,097 3,757 4,417 5,077 5,737 6,397 7,057
   7,717 8,377 9,037 9,697 State 2,000 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200
   200 Federal For Selected Periods Of Tim e 2001-2005 724 2001-2010 3,097
   2001-2030 13,195 TOTAL FEDERAL AND STATE COST IN NOM INAL DOLLARS OF
   SUPPORTING $10 BILLION OF HIGH-SPEED RAIL INVESTM ENT (HSRIA) BONDS
   2001-2005 1,724 2001-2010 5,097 2001-2030 15,195 Calculation Of Net
   Present Value Cost At 6.5% Cost Of Capital For HSRIA Bonds Using Joint
   Com m ittee On Taxation Methodology For Full 30 Year Period Bonds Are
   Outstanding NPV @ 6.5% Federal 5,292 13 78 149 210 275 342 408 474 541
   607 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 State 1,438 200 200 200 200
   200 200 200 200 200 200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 6,730 213 278 349 410
   475 542 608 674 741 807 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660
   Calculation Of Net Present Value Cost At 6.5% Cost Of Capital For
   Direct $1 Billion Grants Funded 80% Federally W ith 20% Matching By
   States NPV @ 6.5% Federal 5,470 160 800 800 800 800 800 800 800 800 800
   640 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 State 1,368 40 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200
   200 160 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 6,838 200 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
   1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 800 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Additional Net Present
   Value Cost (Assum ing a 6.5% Cost Of Capital) Of Direct Grants Versus
   HSRIA Bonds To Federal Taxpayers 108 Total Additional Nom inal Dollar
   Cost of HSRIA Bonds over 30 Year Life Versus Direct Grants Federal
   5,195 [Assum ing Federal Grants of $800 m illion per year for 10 years]
   State 0 [Assum ing State Grants of $200 m illion per year for 10
   years]. Total 5,195 19
