http://www.nysed.gov/COMM/REG0112.htm

                                December 2001

                    Report to the State Board of Regents
              BY STATE EDUCATION COMMISSIONER RICHARD P. MILLS

The Meeting in Brief:

Action

     * Approval of Regents 2002-2003 State Aid to schools proposal.
     * Approval of the 2002-2003 Budget Proposal
     * Charter school applications.
     * Proposed amendment to the regulations relating to educational
       standards for social work programs leading to professional
       licensure.
     * Approval of proposed amendment to Part 200 of the Commissioner’s
       Regulations to align the State and federal regulations implementing
       IDEA.
     * Emergency adoption of proposed amendments to Section 155.22 of the
       Commissioner’s Regulations relating to Qualified Zone Academy Bonds

Discussion

     * High school performance data
     * Continued discussion on 55-65 timeline
     * Middle-level education
     * Technology Planning
     * Teaching Workforce
     * Task Force on Nursing
     * Roosevelt update
     * Focusing on critical needs

State Museum Memorial Exhibit

   The State Museum opened a memorial exhibit to those lost in the attack
   on the World Trade Center. This opening coincided with the opening of
   the new 25,000 square foot gallery that introduces visitors to the
   regions of New York.

       Picture of a memorial exhibit showing the Statue of Liberty, an
                  American Flag and the World Trade Center


Regents State Aid Proposal

   New York’s State aid formula has ceased to function. Fewer than four
   dozen school districts are actually on the formula. All the others are
   subject to complex adjustments. The formula is inflexible and
   inefficient as an instrument of policy and a means to distribute aid.
   After huge effort every year, schools in great need sometimes return
   aid unspent because while the money is there and needed, it is in
   categories that fail to match the need. As Regents have often pointed
   out, the formula is not closing the gaps in student achievement. The
   formula includes so many arcane data items that it has become difficult
   even for very experienced practitioners to verify the data.

   The Regents State aid proposal for 2002-2003 is a dramatic improvement.
   The Regents Subcommittee on State Aid proposes to consolidate 34
   formulas into eight broad categories that treat aid for similar
   purposes in a consistent manner. This provides greater operating
   flexibility, and builds on strategies that work – for example extra
   help for students who need it to meet the standards. The policy goal of
   driving more aid to the highest need districts is applied to the entire
   amount, not just the increase. The proposal would phase out the caps
   and save harmless provisions and replace them with limited maximum loss
   provisions. There is a regional cost index which responds to years of
   recommendations from many close observers of State aid.

   Some people are concerned that their categorical programs will suffer
   if the aid categories are combined. However, it is essential that we
   hold firm in our resolve to simplify the formula and direct more of the
   aid to districts that need it most.

   I recommend that the Regents adopt this landmark proposal. The increase
   will be a reasonable and appropriate amount given the need to support
   local efforts to raise student achievement.

Two Cohorts, Two Regents Exams: Continued Improvement

   The students who entered ninth grade in 1996 faced only the Regents
   English Exam to graduate. They did well – 90 percent of general
   education students scored 55 or above. That group didn’t have to pass
   mathematics but 77.2 percent did so nevertheless. Those who entered in
   1997 held onto the earlier performance in English (89.1 percent scored
   55 or better), and set a new high mark in mathematics (86.6 percent).

   The first chart shows the gains in mathematics across all categories of
   schools. The second chart shows gains at the 65 pass level also.

    Meeting Regents Math Graduation Requirement (55-100) after Four Years

                                [Image1.gif]

                     Meeting Math Graduation Requirement
   Scoring 65 or better after Four Years

                                [Image2.gif]

   Students with disabilities also improved in mathematics from the 1996
   cohort (38.3 percent scored 55 or above) to those entering in 1997
   (50.8 percent at 55 or above).

   English language learners improved their English Regents performance
   from 54.1 percent in the 1996 cohort to 57.4 percent in the 1997
   cohort. New York City showed more rapid improvement than the State as a
   whole among English language learners.

   What should we make of this? The results are going up steadily. The
   widely shared view of some years ago that adding the second Regents
   exam would lead to failure was mistaken. The rising achievement of
   students with disabilities continues to impress those who thought the
   youngsters couldn’t do it. And their achievement is yet another
   reminder of the need for higher education to get ready for increasing
   numbers of high school graduates who are well prepared academically but
   happen to have a disability.

   We still need to look more deeply into the data. The cohort data show
   performance after four years, and we know that there is a long standing
   pattern in some of the urban schools for students to take five or more
   years to graduate. And when we examine individual urban schools, we see
   improvements in some but declines in others.

The Call to Leadership

   Since the November Regents meeting, we have held two more Call to
   Leadership sessions. Regents Bennett and Gardner hosted the ninth
   session in Buffalo, and Regent Johnson the tenth on Long Island. So far
   we have met more than 1700 aspiring leaders.

   It is clear that the challenge is not to find people willing to lead -
   they are there in abundance. Rather the challenge is to guarantee the
   quality of leadership education. Kevin McGuire continues to develop a
   statement of what we know and believe on that subject – based both on
   the literature and the emerging experience among senior practitioners
   and higher education leaders. Regents policy debate on leadership
   education will begin early in the new year.

Accreditation Effort Moves Forward

   In November, the Regents approved accreditation for two institutions:
   The Utica School of Commerce and the Institute of Design and
   Construction. This was an important step toward retaining our status as
   a nationally recognized accrediting agency by the United States
   Department of Education (USDOE).

   In December, two more institutions will be presented for renewal of
   their accreditation. By the end of December, we will submit our revised
   petition to USDOE, for continued recognition as a national accrediting
   agency.

VESID’s Reading and Math Improvement Initiative

   The focus of this initiative is on improving the instruction in reading
   and math for general and special education students in the 37 school
   districts participating. Data are not yet available for some of the
   districts but 25 districts made significant gains in student
   performance.

   Of the 111 buildings involved, 18 were included on our list of most
   improved schools during the past two years on the elementary English
   Language Arts assessment. These most improved schools were located in
   12 of the 37 participating districts.

   VESID is working with the Office of Elementary, Middle, Secondary and
   Continuing Education to share this information and assist with similar
   initiatives.

Federal Special Education Law Review

   The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) and the National
   Governors Association (NGA) have agreed to collaborate on
   reauthorization of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. An
   equal number of chiefs and governors will be appointed to a joint
   committee that will develop a policy statement to be issued early next
   year. I will serve on the panel.

   The committee will identify common issues and concerns and work to
   create a statement that can be ratified by the full memberships of each
   group. CCSSO and NGA then will work together on advocacy efforts during
   the reauthorization debate.

Teacher Shortfall – Getting the Problem Right

   A well prepared teacher for every class is the surest way to raise
   student achievement and meet the standards. We have a serious shortfall
   in meeting that goal, but finding the right strategies depends on
   getting the problem right. To that end we have considered data from
   many sources and sought advice from many partners, including most
   recently the members of the Higher Education Advisory Committee.

   Currently there are 15,000 teachers holding temporary licenses. About
   18 percent of New York State teachers are over age 55 and could retire.
   There are not enough teachers entering mathematics, science, and
   bilingual education. And there are not enough certified teachers
   willing to teach in some urban schools.

   New York has a large teacher education capacity, and those institutions
   prepared 18,000 teachers last year. However, only half of them took
   teaching positions in New York’s public schools. This is consistent
   with the national pattern. Here are some other interesting numbers:

                                                      9,000
   college-recommended 29%

                                                      7,000
   transcript evaluation 23%
    4,000   returning certified 13%

                                                     11,000
   temporary certification 35%

                                                     31,000
   vacancies filled in 1999-2000

   We should consider strategies to recruit candidates to teacher
   education who already have the commitment to teach in the cities. We
   should expand the alternative certification opportunity. Clearly we
   need to know more about why candidates do not accept positions that are
   available, and why so many leave so early. The presidents brought great
   urgency to this issue in a discussion last week, and we will engage
   many others as we shape practical strategies to meet the shortfall.

Monitoring the Regents Passing Score

   The Regents continue to monitor students’ success in meeting the
   standards. Our policy calls for the minimum passing score to rise from
   55 to 65 for the currently enrolled ninth graders. We have new data on
   how those who entered ninth grade in 1997 fared.

   In English, 15.5 percent of the 1996 group scored between 55 and 64.
   That proportion declined to 13.3 percent in the 1997 group. In
   mathematics, the change was in the opposite direction – from 4.4
   percent in the 1996 cohort to 8.6 percent in 1997.

   What do we know about the intensity of the problem? Here is the
   situation on the English Regents exam: Fewer schools (216 v. 229) had
   20 percent or more of their students in the 55-64 gap in the second
   group. But some schools appear on the 1997 list and not in the 1996
   group.

   The most significant finding may be this: "…the students most affected
   by the elimination of the 55-64 safety net are those attending schools
   in the Big 5 districts, many of which have large percentages of
   minority and low-income students."

   Many have urged the Regents to postpone the move to 65. We can see that
   such a change would affect particular children. Would it allow the
   children to continue to improve to meet the standards or would it tend
   to codify a lower standard for some children? In response to proposals
   to delay raising the passing score, shouldn’t we ask what specifically
   would be done to improve the performance of children? Without solid
   answers and the capacity to follow-through, delay would seem likely to
   leave particular groups of children performing at lower levels
   indefinitely, and that is no one’s goal.

How to Improve Middle Grades Results

   Three years of flat data – in the context of steadily rising
   performance elsewhere – should be enough to convince most people. There
   are problems with middle school education and the knowledge and
   experience exists in New York schools to change that situation for the
   better.

   Is there a problem with the conceptual model behind middle grades
   education? Apparently not from what we read in the latest EMSC report
   on research they did in concert with practitioners and the Nassau
   BOCES. Schools that incorporate the elements of middle school to a high
   degree have higher student performance on the middle grades
   assessments. Those that don’t have lower performance. Other factors are
   involved, however. Only the highest performing average and low need
   schools are implementing the model extensively.

   The paper shows that the characteristics and practices of high
   performing middle schools are well known. These elements are not easy
   to put in place, but neither do they appear beyond the reach of any
   group of professionals. Above all, they can be studied and learned.

   The paper calls for a multiyear agenda to put effective practices into
   wider use. I am particularly interested in the series of regional
   meetings that will start in February. There should be no speeches or
   formalities of any kind. It should all be about what high performing
   and rapidly improving middle schools in New York are doing right now to
   get the good results for children. Only they should speak. All the rest
   of us should listen. And then act accordingly so children in middle
   schools everywhere have what their children have.

Middle School Testing

   The Department held a meeting of approximately 30 participants to
   discuss middle school testing issues. The five major issues addressed
   were:
     * Timely reporting of test results;
     * Maximum time for instruction before testing;
     * Ensure that the middle level assessments do not interfere with
       Regents examination schedule;
     * Accommodate various school schedules, particularly non-public
       schools that finish the school year in early June; and
     * Reduce the number of school days given to testing.

   The group made some proposals for the State Education Department to
   consider when establishing future test schedules.

Follow-up on Roosevelt School District

   At the November meeting, the Regents adopted a course of action to
   resolve performance, governance, and finance issues in the Roosevelt
   School District. The Regents took the first of those steps immediately
   by appointing a new member to the Oversight Panel. I directed the Panel
   to take the next step, which was to review the Roosevelt School Board
   in relation to the corrective action plan and the five-year financial
   stabilization plan.

   The Panel has reported their findings and recommendations to the
   Roosevelt School Board and Superintendent and asked for board action by
   December 17. If it is necessary, I will take additional steps
   immediately after that date.

   The Regents have the Panel report. Here are some of the findings:
     * None of the academic performance targets met.
     * Potentially large audited annual dropout rate
     * Not all required special education services provided
     * Board failed to ensure that facilities are maintained
     * Adequate financial practices and controls not in place
     * Board has not provided adequate financial and administrative
       oversight
     * Board has not formally evaluated the superintendent
     * Board has not followed its own five-year financial stabilization
       plan and has not adopted a spending plan consistent with revenues

Summary of the Work of the Regents Blue Ribbon Task Force on the Future of
Nursing

   This month, the Regents will receive an update on the recommendations
   of the Task Force, led by Regent McGivern, to address the nursing
   shortage in New York State. This overview will include a description of
   solutions already under way and specific initiatives undertaken by the
   Department.

Federal Agenda

   The 2002 federal legislative agenda is scheduled for review at your
   December meeting. We have made several substantive revisions to the
   first draft based on comments since the November meeting and
   recommendations from your Public Policy Conference. As you recall,
   there are several federal laws that will be up for review in the near
   future for which we provide recommendations. These include the
   Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Higher Education Act,
   Rehabilitation Act, and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical
   Education Act.

Federal Update

   The congressional conference committee concluded work on the
   reauthorization of the bulk of elementary and secondary education
   programs. The legislation increases funding and services to
   disadvantaged students, provides for expanded teacher preparation and
   development, and supports reading for children in grades K-3. Bilingual
   education and technology programs were consolidated into separate
   formula grants. The growing 21^st Century Community Learning Centers
   program, which funds after-school and summer activities, has become a
   federal-state-local formula grant. The push for full funding of the
   main grant program under the Individuals with Disabilities Education
   Act failed. Advocates promise to pursue the issue during next year’s
   reauthorization debate.

   There are new accountability provisions, including the system to test
   all students in grades 3-8 in reading and mathematics. It appears that
   the federal government will provide sufficient funding to cover our
   costs in developing those tests. While the Congress gave states more
   flexibility in designing accountability processes, there are new
   federal mandates that will have to be addressed.

   The Congress plans to complete work on the legislation and also pass an
   education-funding bill before the holidays.

Focusing on Critical Needs

   How should the Regents focus their efforts in the next year or two
   within the context of the strategic plan? Regents posed that question
   during their 2001 policy retreat. Here is a suggested answer. If
   approved by the Board, it will guide their agenda and challenge the
   Department to align its time, energy and resources while continuing
   other critical services and initiatives.

Achieve better results by:

     * Promoting academic standards for all students from Pre-K to adult
     * Providing guidance on curriculum and practice
     * Identifying shortfalls in the supply of teachers and licensed
       professionals and implementing statewide strategies that will help
       employers to fill these vacancies
     * Proposing a State aid formula that directs a higher percentage of
       aid to the school districts that have the greatest need
     * Completing the renewal of the State Museum and convincing the
       Legislature and the Executive to adopt the New Century Libraries
       proposal
     * Expanding the capacity of vocational rehabilitation and workforce
       development systems to help people with disabilities find
       employment and succeed in higher education

Gain support to get these results by:

     * Strengthening the resources of the University of the State of New
       York and focusing them on these critical needs
     * Building support for this work by communicating more effectively
       with the public, the Executive and the Legislature about our goals,
       results and needs.

   I recommend that Regents adopt the statement "Focusing on Critical
   Needs" as the guide to its agenda and use of time for 2002.
     __________________________________________________________________

           A monthly publication of the State Education Department

                         NYS Education Department Seal
     __________________________________________________________________

             Back to Report Home Page | Return to SED Home Page


    Last Updated: January 04, 2002 (mcf)
    URL: http://www.nysed.gov/comm/reg0112.htm
