http://www.tfhrc.gov/pubrds/pubrds.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu.

   menu bar.

     Public Roads Magazine

     Public Roads Magazine Cover. Public Roads is the bimonthly magazine
     of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). Reading Public Roads
     is the easiest way to keep up-to-date on developments in federal
     highway policies, programs, and research and technology.

     More specifically, the magazine "covers" advances and innovations in
     highway/traffic research and technology, critical national
     transportation issues, important activities and achievements of FHWA
     and others in the highway community, specific FHWA program areas,
     and subjects of interest to highway industry professionals. Each
     issue contains standard departments that include information on
     topics of general interest, notices of recent publications in
     research and development and in technology applications,
     Internet-related information applicable to transportation
     professionals, programs and courses offered by the National Highway
     Institute, and a calendar of major conferences and special events.
     Public Roads also emphasizes the continuing commitment of FHWA to be
     a world leader in promoting highway research and technology
     transfer.

     For almost its entire 80 years, Public Roads was exclusively an
     in-house research journal for engineers, scientists, and economists.
     However, in the summer of 1993, Public Roads broadened its scope to
     represent the entire FHWA and to be relevant to a wider audience.
     The expanded audience includes all FHWA employees; international,
     national, state, and local transportation officials; members of
     highway-related professional societies and associations; researchers
     at technical libraries and technology transfer centers; professors
     and students of engineering and traffic management; members of
     appropriate congressional committees; and others interested in
     highway research and technology and in FHWA policies and programs.
     ....................................




   More Information.

   Current Edition
   Read the latest Public Roads.
   .................

   Past Issues
   Looking for older articles?  Check in the Public Roads archives or the
   index of articles Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader. (PDF - 450K)
   .................

   Ordering Information
   Find out how to order the print version of Public Roads.
   .................

   Instructions for Authors
   Provides information on writing and submitting articles for Public
   Roads.
   .................

      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                   http://www.tfhrc.gov/pubrds/pubrds.htm
