http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/tick-info.html

                                                                Home Index

                                  Tick Talk

   [greenline.gif]

                          by Ranger Barry Breckling

   Once again she started climbing up the deeply furrowed trunk of the
   blue oak tree. This would be her second try to find an animal to land
   on and feast upon. Four hours and forty-two minutes later she reached
   the end of a branch 32 feet above the trail. She jockeyed around on the
   branch until she was directly above the trail.

   With tiny eyes, she patiently watched the terrain below. A mouse
   scurried across the trail and later a jackrabbit ran by, but they were
   too fast, too small, and mostly too far away to be likely victims.
   Finally, two days later, a young male deer wandered slowly along the
   trail, sniffing around for leafy morsels to munch on.

   The famished tick poised herself in readiness. When the timing seemed
   perfect, she leaped into the air and fell towards her unsuspecting
   prey. Her target was the deer's neck, but at the last crucial moment
   the deer turned his head to see what a noisy scrub jay was complaining
   about, and the tick missed by a mere quarter inch. She landed with a
   thud on the hard dirt of the trail. "Darn!" she muttered. But no one
   heard.

   To add insult to injury or, I guess, injury to injury, the young buck
   stepped squarely on top of her as he continued down the trail, looking
   for more greenery. Her tough little body protected her somewhat, and,
   pulling herself together, she began crawling (with a bit of a limp)
   back towards the trunk of the blue oak tree .   .   .   .

     There is much myth and misinformation about ticks.  One commonly
     accepted belief is that ticks climb trees and wait to leap off and
     land on unsuspecting victims who wander by down below.  Although
     ticks may seem to have dropped from out of nowhere and lodged in
     your hairline, it's more likely that they posed on a grass stem,
     hitched a ride on your pants, and diligently climbed up you and your
     clothing until they found a spot they liked.

     It may be that some ticks climb trees and launch themselves into the
     air.  But those that do, in my opinion, must be young
     thrill-seekers, mentally deranged, or suicidal.

    Ticks at Coe Park

     In Coe Park, we find ticks from late fall through late spring, the
     moister months of the year.  The park has three species of ticks
     that bite humans, two common species of hard-bodied ticks and one
     less common soft-bodied tick species.

     The western black-legged tick is often seen early in the tick
     season.  The males have blackish-brown bodies, and the larger
     females have reddish-brown bodies.  They're fairly small ticks and,
     as you might expect, they both have black legs.

     The Pacific Coast tick is also common in the park.  It looks a lot
     like the American dog tick (also called the wood tick), which might
     also inhabit the park.  (It's impossible to tell the two species
     apart in the field.) Both male and female Pacific Coast ticks have
     some gray on their bodies, but the female's gray is confined to the
     shield portion of her back.

     The soft-bodied pajahuello tick is less common in the park.
     Although it's not known to carry human diseases, some people are
     allergic to its bite and can develop a severe reaction, with
     swelling, redness, and pain that take several months to disappear.

     Several much less common species of ticks in the park attach to
     hosts that humans don't often come in contact with, and they don't
     seem to have developed a taste for human blood.

    Catching and Feeding on Prey   (human or otherwise)

     All ticks know when prey is near.  They use sense organs to detect
     animal scent, carbon dioxide, and heat.  The adult western
     black-legged and Pacific Coast ticks are usually found at the end of
     grass stems or other vegetation, often along trails.  They can also
     be found in brush.  Younger stages crawl onto prey from the ground
     and low vegetation.  The adult ticks wait, with their front legs
     outstretched, and when an animal brushes against the vegetation, the
     tick grabs on.  The pajahuello tick lives in gravely soil and
     actually looks like a piece of gravel.  It crawls along the ground
     and onto its prey.

     Ticks cut an opening in the skin and insert their barbed snout.  The
     barbs make it difficult to remove the tick, and they also secrete a
     cement that helps keep them attached.  They inject their saliva into
     the cut.  The saliva contains:

      [gball.gif]    an anesthetic that keeps the prey from feeling the
                     bite until the tick is firmly attached,
      [gball.gif]    anticoagulants that thin the blood to make it easier
                     to slurp up,
      [gball.gif]    blood vessel dilators to increase blood flow,
      [gball.gif]    digestive enzymes to start the digestive process
                     before the meal reaches their gut,
      [gball.gif]    and, on occasion, disease organisms.

     The ticks suck the blood of their victims and drop off when they
     become full.  A female tick, after mating, which often occurs on the
     host animal, lays thousands of eggs on the ground.  The eggs hatch
     into larva, and after they feed for a period of time the larva molt
     into the nymph stage.  Both the larva and nymph stages of our
     hard-bodied ticks feed on the blood of lizards, birds, and small
     mammals.  It's extremely uncommon for the larva and nymph stages of
     our ticks to attach to humans.

    Diseases

     Ticks are vectors, which means that they pass diseases on to other
     animal species, and there are many diseases that ticks can carry and
     pass on to humans.  Lyme disease is the one that's gotten the most
     press though, and rightfully so.  It is the most common
     vector-transmitted disease in the United States.

     In 1982, a scientist identified the bacteria responsible for the
     outbreak of a mysterious disease in Connecticut.  The disease had
     been misdiagnosed as rheumatoid arthritis in 1975 in a small town
     called Old Lyme.  The disease is not a new one.  Researchers believe
     that a similar tick-related disease reported in Europe about a
     hundred years ago was in fact the same disease.  Since the bacteria
     was identified in 1982, Lyme disease has been diagnosed in many
     parts of the world, including Asia, Africa, and Australia.

     The bacteria responsible for the outbreak in Connecticut was
     originally thought to be transmitted by a new species of tick, which
     was given the scientific name Ixodes dammini.  Recently, however,
     the ticks have been identified as northern populations of the
     already described tick Ixodes scapularis, a species that's found in
     every state east of the Rocky Mountains.  The same tick is called a
     black-legged tick in the South, a deer tick in the Northeast, and a
     bear tick in the Midwest.  The only other tick species known to
     carry Lyme disease in the United States is the western black-legged
     tick (Ixodes pacificus), which is found in the Pacific states and in
     certain areas of the Southwest.

     Lyme disease has been recorded in 48 states, and its incidence seems
     to be on the rise.  The disease is caused by a spiral-shaped
     bacterium called a spirochete.  In humans, early symptoms of the
     disease usually begin from 7 to 9 days after an infectious bite, but
     they can occur in as few as 3 days and as many as 30.  In about 60
     percent of the cases, an expanding red rash develops, often with a
     clear center.  This rash, described as a "bull's-eye" rash, can grow
     to several inches in diameter.  The red rash that forms a few hours
     after a tick bite, lasts for a few days, and does not expand is not
     a symptom of Lyme disease.

     During the first stage of the disease, people usually develop
     flulike symptoms, such as fever, chills, muscle and joint pain,
     fatigue, and loss of appetite.  Weeks or months later, during the
     second stage, they often suffer from severe headaches, paralysis of
     facial muscles, and lethargy, symptoms that normally last for
     several weeks and then disappear.  Months or years later, a third
     stage can set in, with symptoms like chronic arthritis of the larger
     joints, fatigue, numbness, and memory loss.

     As if Lyme disease were not bad enough, ticks in California can also
     carry Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tick paralysis, human monocytic
     ehrlichiosis, human granulocytic ehrlichiosis, relapsing fever,
     Babesiosis, Colorado tick fever, and tularemia.

    An Optimistic Outlook

     The prospects are not as bleak as they may seem for outdoor
     enthusiasts in the West.  Although several tickborne diseases can
     cause dreadful illnesses and even death, their occurrences are
     rare.  Even the relatively common Lyme disease is much more common
     in eastern states than it is in the West.  In some New England
     states up to 60 percent of black-legged ticks carry Lyme disease,
     but in most of California the percentage is rarely above 5 percent,
     and in our area it's only about 0.5 percent.

     If a tick with Lyme disease bites you and you remove the tick
     promptly, your chances of getting the disease are slim.  There is
     some disagreement about the amount of time a tick must be attached
     to a human before it can transmit an infectious dose of Lyme disease
     bacteria.  The most conservative estimate I've found is 4 hours, but
     the most common estimates are somewhere around 36 hours.  The reason
     for the delay is that the bacteria doesn't begin to multiply in the
     gut of the tick until the tick starts to take in blood.  Then the
     bacteria must enter the tick's blood system and migrate to its
     saliva, a journey that takes time.

     In the East, humans are commonly bitten by both the adult and the
     nymph stages of black-legged ticks, and the nymphs are so small that
     people often don't know that they've been bitten.  In the West,
     people are rarely bitten by the nymph stage of the western
     black-legged tick, and if you get bitten by an adult tick, you'll
     most likely know it.  When the tick's anesthetic wears off,
     its human host usually feels a sharp sting at the site of the bite.

    Science in Action

     When it became known that western black-legged ticks were
     significantly less likely to carry Lyme disease than their eastern
     relatives, scientists began studying the ticks and their host
     animals to find out why.  Biologists decided that the low infection
     rate found in the western ticks was simply not high enough to keep
     their host animals infected and sustain the disease, so they began
     looking for other possibilities.

     University of California biologists discovered that one of the
     western black-legged tick's hosts is the dusky-footed woodrat.  Then
     they found that the woodrat was also host to another species of tick
     (Ixodes neotomae), one that never bites humans.  That tick has a
     Lyme disease infection rate of about 15 percent, which is high
     enough to sustain the disease in woodrats.

     The woodrat discovery was a definite breakthrough, but it still
     didn't explain why the western black-legged tick's infection rate
     was so low.  The answer to that puzzle became clear very recently.
     Scientists have just discovered that western fence lizards, one of
     the most common hosts for the larval and nymph stages of western
     black-legged ticks, play a major role in reducing the incidence of
     Lyme disease in the West.  The lizard's blood contains a substance
     that kills Lyme disease bacteria.  When a tick bites a lizard, the
     bacteria enters the lizard's bloodstream and dies, and when the
     lizard's blood enters the bloodstream of the feeding tick, the
     tick's body is also cleansed of the bacteria.

     Western black-legged ticks also feed on other rodents, including
     kangaroo rats, and at least one other tick is known to be a part of
     the Lyme disease connection.  What's more, there are different
     strains of the Lyme disease spirochete, another complication (and
     probably not the last) in the highly complex life cycle of a single
     disease.

    Lyme Disease Diagnosis and Treatment

     If you think you might have Lyme disease, see a physician as soon as
     possible.  The disease is usually diagnosed by the bull's-eye rash,
     the flulike symptoms, and knowledge that the person with the
     symptoms may have been bitten by a tick.  Blood tests are often used
     to confirm a diagnosis, but the test results are meaningless during
     the first several weeks following a tick bite.

     Antibiotics administered during the first stage of the disease
     usually eliminate it entirely or at least decrease the intensity of
     later symptoms.  If the disease is left untreated, the later
     symptoms can be debilitating, but those symptoms occur in only about
     10 percent of untreated cases.

     Soon after Lyme disease was discovered, researchers began working on
     potential vaccines.  In May of 1998, the Food and Drug
     Administration approved a vaccine but issued restrictions on its
     use.  The vaccine is not to be used on people with arthritis or on
     children under the age of 15.  Booster shots, which may be required
     to maintain an immunity, are not to be given until more research is
     done.  The company that developed the vaccine is to continue
     long-term safety research.

     The approved vaccine is not 100 percent effective.  A person can
     have an almost 80 percent chance to develop immunity but only after
     completion of a series of three shots taken over the period of a
     year.  And there are still a lot of unanswered questions about the
     vaccine.

    The Best Defense is Good Sense

     Ticks will normally grab on to one of your legs or your feet, climb
     up your body and under your clothes, and search for a suitable place
     to dig in.  To keep ticks from crawling up inside your pants legs,
     wear long pants, rather than shorts, and either wear gators or tuck
     your pants into your socks.  When you hike cross country or on
     narrow trails during tick season, check your legs for ticks every 10
     to 20 minutes and do a full body tick check at the end of the day.
     Using these precautions, you can usually keep ticks from finding
     their way to their preferred destinations.

     For even better protection, you can use repellents containing DEET,
     insecticides containing permethrin, or a combination of the two.
     You can apply a DEET solution on your skin, your clothing, or both
     to repel ticks.  Applying it on your shoes, socks, and lower legs
     will deter most ticks.  Permethrin, sold under brand names like
     Permanone and Duranon is applied to clothing.  It's not effective
     when used on skin because our skin deactivates it rapidly.
     Permethrin will both repel ticks and kill those that come in contact
     with it.  When applied to clothing, permethrin's effectiveness lasts
     for a couple weeks and through a couple washings.

    Removing Ticks

     If a tick does bore into you, it's important that you remove it
     promptly and properly.  Several good tick removal devices are
     available on the market.  If you use one of them, read and carefully
     follow the directions.  If you don't have a removal device, you can
     use a pair of fine-point tweezers.  Grasp the tick as close as
     possible to the point of attachment and slowly and gently pull until
     your skin starts to lift.  Keep up the gentle pressure (without
     lifting farther) until the tick comes loose.  Don't twist or jerk.
     If you do, you might squish the tick or break off its head or mouth
     parts.

     If you leave part of the tick in your skin, you should have it
     removed by a physician.  Otherwise, you may get an infection in the
     bite area.  If the tick's body is squished and its body fluids get
     on you, it's possible that Lyme disease bacteria or other tick borne
     disease microbes could be absorbed through your skin.  If you don't
     have tweezers, you can usually grip the tick with your fingers and
     pull gently until the tick comes out.  If you use your fingers, wear
     thin gloves or hold plastic wrap or paper between your fingers and
     the tick.

     I've made a tick removing tool that works quite well.  I started
     with a small twig about two and a half inches long and an eighth of
     an inch in diameter.  I split the twig down about half its length
     and carved curved notches in the ends so that when you grasp a tick
     with it and lock the two halves together, the tick is caught, but
     not squished, in between.  The tool is designed for spinning, rather
     than pulling.  A quick spin and the tick is out.

     After you remove a tick, use an antiseptic on the wound and wash
     your hands and tools.

     Some people still believe that you can get a tick to back out by
     putting petroleum jelly, nail polish, a drop of kerosene, or other
     chemicals on it, or by lighting a match, blowing it out and applying
     the hot tip to the tick's body.  I've never known any of these
     methods to work.  The only result I've seen when they're used is a
     maimed or dead tick that's still attached.  Research in such methods
     has yielded the same results.

    Take a Hike

     There's no reason to deprive yourself of trips into the Coe
     backcountry.  Knowledge dispels unwarranted fear.  Just remember:

      [gball.gif] You can avoid areas where you might pick up ticks.
      [gball.gif] If ticks gets on you, you can easily pick them off,
   especially if you've dressed to keep ticks outside your clothing.
      [gball.gif] Since ticks normally don't attach for several hours, you
   can usually find any that escaped earlier tick checks by doing a
   full-body tick check at the end of the day.
      [gball.gif] You can greatly reduce the chances a tick will get on
   you by using special repellants and insecticides.
      [gball.gif] In Coe Park, only one in 200 ticks carries Lyme disease,
   and if one of those ticks bites you, prompt and proper removal of the
   tick will keep you from becoming infected.
      [gball.gif] And, finally, even if you do get a tick bite followed by
   Lyme disease symptoms, you can get early treatment to eliminate the
   disease.

     [greenline.gif]

   .   .   .   .  Her long journey continued. She reached an outermost
   branch of the blue oak tree about six hours later. As she gazed down
   she saw the blurry image of a man pausing on the trail right below her.
   He was not too fast, he was not too small, and he wasn't that far away
   (closer than the deer was anyway). She leaped into the air and dived
   towards her unsuspecting prey. Her target was the man's neck, but at
   the very last moment he leaned over to check his legs for ticks. The
   flying tick missed by a mere quarter inch and landed with a thud on the
   hard dirt of the trail. "Curses!" she muttered.  But nobody heard.

                               [greenline.gif]
                      Return  to the Coe Park home page
