http://t8web.lanl.gov/people/salman/

Salman Habib

   Email: habib@lanl.gov
   Phone: (505) 667 5265 (Office)/(505) 665 3700 (FAX)

   I am a member of the Elementary Particles and Field Theory Group (T-8),
   in the Theoretical Division at Los Alamos National Laboratory and
   visiting faculty in Physics at Caltech. My personal home page is
   located off-site.

   My research focuses mainly on the dynamics of classical and quantum
   field theories with applications in particle physics, condensed matter
   systems, atomic and quantum optics, accelerator physics, and cosmology.
   Other areas include quantum dynamics of open systems, astrophysics,
   nonlinear dynamics, and stochastic PDEs. I am interested in the
   intelligent application of supercomputers to solving physics problems.

   I obtained my undergraduate degree at the Indian Institute of
   Technology, Delhi and my Ph. D. from the University of Maryland, both
   in physics. My thesis adviser at Maryland was Bei-Lok Hu. I was a
   post-doctoral fellow with Bill Unruh at the University of British
   Columbia before arriving at Los Alamos, first as a post-doctoral fellow
   in the groups T-6 (Theoretical Astrophysics) and T-8, later becoming a
   staff member in T-8.

   Research
   Accelerator Physics
   Astrophysics/Cosmology
   Classical/Quantum Nonlinear Dynamics
   Experiments
   Noneqlbm. Quantum Field Theory
   Nonlinear Coherent Structures
   Quantum Control
   Quantum Fields in Curved Spaces
   Quantum-Classical Transition
   Stochastic Partial Differential Equations

   Collaborations
   Collaborations

   Publications
   Publications (Sorted by Type)
   Publications (Chronologically Ordered)

   Major Activities/Grants
   T-Division Cosmology Course
   Accelerator Physics (DOE Grand Challenge)
   Nonequilibrium Working Group
   Quantum Feedback Control
   Search for Dark Matter
   T-Division QUEST Initiative

   Miscellaneous
   Research Links

   Conferences/Workshops
   QUEST 2001 Summer Retreat (Santa Fe, Aug '01)
   Structure Formation/Dark Matter (Santa Fe, Jul '01)
   QUEST 2000 (Santa Fe, Jul '00)
   Stochastic Evolutionary Equations (CNLS, Sep '99)
   Structure Formation/Dark Matter (Santa Fe, Jun-Jul '99)
   Noneqlbm. Quantum Fields (ITP, Jan '99)
   Noneqlbm. Phase Transitions (Santa Fe, Jul-Aug '96)

   Supercomputing
   LANL Open Supercomputing Users Group
   Nonequilibrium Field Theory at NERSC
   The Nightshade Cluster


   Salman Habib / LANL / habib@lanl.gov / revised January 02

                                                            Valid HTML 4.0!
