http://buildings.lbl.gov/Commercial_Bldgs.pdf

   High-Performance Commercial Building Systems Commercial buildings
   account for about one-third of all California electricity con-
   sumption, at an annual cost of $9 billion. Although aggressive efforts
   by California to improve building design within the state have led to
   significant increases in commer- cial building energy efficiency over
   the past 20 years, the savings are still well below technical and
   economic potential. A new three-year public-private research ini-
   tiative, which will target substantial reduc- tions in the energy costs
   of commercial buildings, has been launched under the lead- ership of
   scientists from the U.S. Department of Energy's Ernest Orlando Lawrence
   Berkeley National Laboratory. More than $13 million in research,
   development, demonstra- tion and deployment funding has been committed
   by the California Energy Commission through its Public Interest Energy
   Research Program, along with the Department of Energy, Pacific Gas &
   Electric and private sector partners who will provide in-kind
   assistance. A team of 13 public and private sector organizations will
   carry out the many tasks of the program. Program goals Research
   partners Broad program goal: to develop and deploy Berkeley Lab, as
   prime contractor, has assembled a energy saving technologies,
   strategies, and tech- team of institutions to carry out the research,
   niques, and to improve processes for designing, com- including MIT,
   Texas A & M, UC Berkeley, UC San missioning, and operating commercial
   buildings Diego, PECI, and Davis Energy Group. Other while improving
   the health, comfort and productivity partners, including PG&E, DOE,
   Honeywell, Silicon of occupants. A second goal is to routinely and
   cost- Energy, Ove Arup and Partners, Flack + Kurtz, effectively achieve
   energy savings levels that were and Architectural Energy Corp. will
   provide matching previously achieved only in prior RD&D programs:
   support. 70% in new construction and 50% in major retrofits. The
   program is intended to strengthen the state's growing energy efficiency
   industry, providing jobs for companies in hardware, software, design
   and build- Deployment partner ing service. A unique feature of the
   program is the Specific program goal: to produce technolo-
   participation of PG&E in implementing gies and tools that will assist
   the commercial sector market transformation activities to help in
   California to reduce electricity use by 22% by the deploy the products
   of the research and year 2015. These savings of 24,000 GWh per year
   development effort through training, out- would be worth $2.4 billion
   per year to ratepayers reach and demonstration projects. and would
   benefit the environment by reducing carbon emissions 2,260,000 tons per
   year. Five Program Elements The High-Performance Commercial Building
   Systems Program will develop new technologies and design and operations
   practices in five areas: Life-Cycle Tools Integrated building
   performance management systems. Includes software tools, analysis
   techniques, data definitions and schema (e.g. performance metrics),
   data schema for interoperability, and benchmark databases for
   evaluating commercial building energy use and other performance issues.
   Contact: Mary Ann Piette, LBNL, mapiette@lbl.gov, 510.486.6286
   Lighting, Envelope and Daylighting Hardware and software to control and
   monitor conventional lighting and envelope devices for comfort and
   energy efficiency. Control systems operating on a low-cost building
   communications network, allowing for occupant-based and building-wide
   control of lighting and dynamic envelope elements (e.g. elec-
   trochromic glazings). Contact: Steven Blanc, PG&E, slb4@pge.com,
   925.866.5570 Low Energy Cooling Strategies to reduce the energy
   consumption and peak demand associated with the cooling of commercial
   buildings in California climates. Novel space conditioning systems
   (e.g. displacement ventilation, evap- orative cooling, chilled
   ceilings). Demonstration of proven low energy cooling technologies. New
   tools for design, commissioning and operation of systems. Contact:
   Philip Haves, LBNL, phaves@lbl.gov, 510.486.6512 Integrated
   Commissioning and Diagnostics Reliable practices for commissioning
   buildings to operate as designed, and for fine tuning after occupancy.
   Procedures for diagnosing problems that prevent buildings from
   operating at maximum efficiency. Case studies to facilitate
   commissioning as standard practice. Advanced commissioning, including
   supporting software and sensors. Contact: David Claridge, Texas A&M,
   claridge@esl.tamu.edu, 409.834.1280 Indoor Environmental Quality HVAC
   and indoor pollutant source control technologies; information that
   assists state agencies and utilities develop market programs for
   energy-efficient relocatable classrooms (RCs). Demonstration of
   improved indoor environments in RCs and documentation of impacts on
   student health and learning. Contact: Bill Fisk, LBNL, wjfisk@lbl.gov,
   510.486.5910 For more information about the program, contact:
   High-Performance Commercial Building Systems Program Director: Stephen
   Selkowitz, LBNL, seselkowitz@lbl.gov, 510.486.5064 or visit the program
   website (currently under construction) at http://buildings.lbl.gov
   Environmental Energy Technologies Division Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, CA 94720
