http://crapo.senate.gov/pressreleases/2002/January/pr01032002.htm

   [USEMAP:flag_front_page_contents.jpg]

                                 [crapo.gif]

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                                 CONTACTS:      Susan Wheeler

                                                                               (202) 224-5150
January 3, 2002

                                                                              Lindsay Nothern

                                                                               (208) 334-1776

   CRAPO, CRAIG: DO NOT UNDERCUT GOVERNMENT'S NUCLEAR CLEANUP COMMITTMENTS

     Letter to Bush underscores federal budget obligations at DOE sites


   Washington, DC - Idaho Senators Mike Crapo, who co-chairs the Senate
   Nuclear Cleanup Caucus, and Larry Craig, who chairs the Senate
   Republican Policy Committee, have alerted President Bush of the
   necessity of adequate funding for environmental management programs at
   the Department of Energy. In a letter sent to the White House, they
   pointed out the consistent reductions in the budget requests submitted
   by the Administration and noted that the federal government has certain
   legal obligations and deadlines at cleanup sites, including Idaho, that
   must be fully funded.

   The letter, which is also signed by Caucus Co-Chair Patty Murray
   (D-Washington, outlines the current fiscal year budget request and
   points out the importance of meeting cleanup goals throughout the
   country. It states in part, "The DOE EM program supports safe
   treatment, management and disposition of some of the most radioactive
   and hazardous substances known to man. These materials and the
   environmental contamination at DOE facilities across the country are a
   legacy of our victories in World War II and the Cold War that must be
   addressed. In response to the legitimate concerns of communities that
   host DOE facilities, the federal government entered into
   legally-binding agreements with many of the states to clean up DOE
   facilities across the country. Further, the federal government has a
   moral obligation to all states to proceed with cleanup activities. It
   is imperative that your budget request provide enough funding to meet
   these requirements."

   "As Congress works through the yearly budget process, we must ensure
   that the federal government keeps its commitment to nuclear cleanup in
   Idaho and throughout the country," Crapo said. "While the Senate
   Nuclear Waste Cleanup Caucus has been successful in educating the
   Administration and other members of Congress about cleanup concerns,
   this is an ongoing effort to make certain that adequate attention and
   resources are dedicated to cleaning up contaminated DOE sites."

   "It is imperative that we manage nuclear waste properly -- it is a
   commitment our government must fulfill to the American people. Our
   Nuclear Waste Cleanup Caucus will continue working within Congress and
   with the Administration to make certain we deliver the right amount of
   attention and resources to clean up contaminated sites," said Craig.

                                    # # #

      This page was updated on 01/24/2002 .  Contact Webmaster with any
                           comments or suggestions
