http://www.leadership.opm.gov/ljintro.html

   Go to OPM Homepage Skip navigation and go to content Great Leaders for
                                                        Great Government

   Search Back to Homepage Schedule Course Registration Agency Partners
   Contact Us Site Map Help

   General Information
   Courses Offered
   Knowledge Links
   Participant Login
   Privacy Policy
   Hot Links
   Receive a Course Catalog
   Download Course Catalogs in pdf format
   Stay current on new courses.
   Sign up Now!


   The Leadership Journey


                                  [EMBED]

    We have developed a graphic representation of The Leadership Journey,
     which you may find helpful in accessing the breadth of courses and
       services of the Federal Executive Institute and the Management
      Development Centers. Users with newer browsers or with the Flash
       plug-in can view our interactive presentation of The Leadership
                                  Journey.

       If you can see the animation at left, select ENTER to continue.
             Be a little patient, there is a brief loading time.

   If you can't see the animation at left... Get the Flash Plugin or go to
   the HTML version of the Leadership Journey graphic presentation. If you
      would like to print The Leadership Journey, use the HTML version.

                                 Top of Page


   Looking for courses at a specific Center? Select Center logo or link
   below.


   The Federal Executive Institute Western Management Development Center
   Eastern Management Development Center

                                         Federal Executive Institute
                                         in Charlottesville, VA
   Western Management
   Development Center
     in Denver, CO
                      Eastern Management
                      Development Center
                     in Shepherdstown, WV


               More Information? 1-888-676-9632
   Home | Contact Us | Site Map | Help | Course Registration
   General Information | Courses Offered | Knowledge Links
   Participant Login

   Last Updated: Wednesday, July 11, 2001
