http://cox.house.gov/press/speeches/1102narwhalremarks.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.

             U.S. Coast Guard Commissioning Ceremony for NARWHAL
                              November 2, 2001
                     U.S. Representative Christopher Cox

       Thank you, Captain Holmes, Lieutenant Kidwell, and the NARWHAL crew
   for honoring me with the invitation to participate in the official
   inauguration of the United States Coast Guard Cutter NARWHAL.

       The Coast Guard has been fighting America’s wars since 1789. But
   never in our history has the Coast Guard been of greater importance to
   our national security.

       Since September 11th, Coast Guard forces worldwide have been on
   high alert in the largest port security operation since World War II.

       The Coast Guard does not exist solely for the purpose of preparing
   for war—as, for example, the Navy does. It is also a federal law
   enforcement agency. In today’s war—where protection of our own nation
   is paramount—the Coast Guard is truly on the front lines of our
   “Homeland Security.” The Coast Guard is the lead federal agency for
   enforcing all of our nation’s laws on the oceans and seas.

       Today’s threats to our homeland are unprecedented, but maintaining
   our Homeland Security is nothing new to the Coast Guard. You’ve been
   doing it every day of every year since 1790, when the Revenue Cutter
   Service was established under the Treasury Department. This first small
   force of 10 boats was tasked with enforcing the new nation’s laws,
   including tariffs, on our borders and the coastline of every state.

       Today’s Coast Guard is a far cry from that incipient force. Today,
   Coast Guard personnel enforce our customs, anti-drug, environmental,
   immigration, safety and security laws.

       Congress established the Coast Guard as a military service. Under
   the Espionage Act, the Coast Guard has the power to issue and enforce
   regulations to prevent damage to harbors and vessels during a national
   security emergency. In the Dangerous Cargo Act, Congress gave the Coast
   Guard the authority to develop and enforce regulations governing
   explosive and dangerous cargoes on vessels. And under the Magnuson Act,
   the Coast Guard has broad powers to search vessels in U.S. waters, and
   to control the movement of foreign vessels in U.S. ports.

       At the President’s direction, Coast Guard resources have been
   working to help the victims of the recent terrorist attacks, and ensure
   the continued safety and security of all Americans.

       Currently, the Coast Guard is guarding waters around nuclear power
   plants. It is on highest alert for smugglers and possible terrorist
   entries at our ports. Multi-agency teams led by the Coast Guard now
   board all incoming freighters and cruise lines, and patrol the
   waterfront around the clock. And the Coast Guard is protecting the
   bridges over our waterways—such as the Vincent Thomas Bridge here in
   Southern California, which was anonymously threatened this week.

       Your task is formidable. We are looking for needles in haystacks.
   The Coast Guard is responsible for 95,000 miles of coastline—not just
   the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Gulf of Mexico, but the Great Lakes
   and inland waterways as well. Protecting our border means, first and
   foremost, the Coast Guard—because our coastline is, after all, our
   longest border.

       Approximately 10,000 vessels enter the U.S. each year and make
   approximately 68,000 port calls.

       In addition to your critical national security mission, the day-in,
   day-out work of the Coast Guard is to rescue people and ships at sea.
   Every day, the Coast Guard saves 10 lives, assists 200 people in
   distress, and conducts more than 100 search and rescues. Every day,
   enforcing our drug laws, the Coast Guard seizes nearly $10 million in
   marijuana and cocaine. Again, all that was an average day before
   September 11.

       As NARWHAL officially begins her career, she will add invaluable
   patrol and escort capabilities to the missions of homeland security and
   national defense. Lieutenant Kidwell and his fine crew have already
   spent many hours underway, escorting cruise ships, and patrolling the
   Southern California coast. They began this mission with just a few days
   off from their 5000-mile journey from Louisiana. Thank you, all of you,
   for your commitment to our nation.

       NARWHAL is the Coast Guard’s 35th ship of the new marine protector
   class of 87 foot patrol boats. She was built at Bollinger Shipyard in
   Lockport, Louisiana at a cost of more than $3.5 million.

       We can only guess what the future holds for her. Recent history
   must lead us to believe the future may be very different from what we
   imagined in the past. But throughout their history, Coast Guard crews
   have found themselves involved in missions and operations very
   different from what their ships’ designers and builders had originally
   planned. That’s why the protector class is a multi-mission ship,
   designed to perform many duties well.

       To carry out these duties, NARWHAL requires a professional and
   dedicated captain and crew. She is off to a great start. Lieutenant
   Kidwell is as talented a young officer as there is, and I am certain he
   will serve his first command with great diligence. To you and your
   dedicated crew, congratulations and godspeed.
   NARWHAL’s watch, which has just been set, will preserve and protect
   this fine ship without interruption for roughly the next thirty years.
   The last skipper who will command her is probably about the age of my
   son, who is in third grade. Most, if not all, of the members of her
   last crew are yet to be born.

       Despite their differences in ages and the diversity of their
   backgrounds, the hundreds of men and women who will eventually serve
   aboard NARWHAL will be bonded together by their common experiences and
   proud services aboard this ship. Decades from now, I know you will find
   the opportunity to come together to share your stories and enjoy the
   camaraderie that will be yours from having sailed and served on
   NARWHAL.

       I know a little bit about camaraderie in the Coast Guard from a
   very old friend of mine. Captain Jim Fournier is here with us today.
   After his retirement from active duty in the Coast Guard, Captain
   Fournier served as my California Chief of Staff from my first days in
   office. Today, he chairs my Academy Review Board for the 47th
   Congressional District, which recommends appointees to West Point,
   Annapolis, the Air Force Academy, and the Coast Guard Academy. Thanks
   to Captain Fournier, the Coast Guard has always been a part of our
   Congressional family, and in my office, we have always felt a part of
   the Coast Guard family.

       Thank you again for honoring Rebecca and me today by including us
   in this important event.

       Since 1790, the Coast Guard has been, as its motto, Semper Paratus
   (Always Ready). At this critical time in our nation’s history, I know
   you are ready, and in behalf of the U.S. Congress and all of the
   citizens of Orange County whom it is my privilege to represent, thank
   you for serving our country.

       God bless America, and God bless the NARWHAL.
