http://www.midatlantic.gsa.gov/marhome/serv.htm

                    U. S. General Services Administration

                             Mid-Atlantic Region

                             Services We Provide

   Federal Supply Service (FSS)

   The Federal Supply Service helps federal agencies realize significant
   savings on common use supplies and services through commercial product
   and services contracts. More than $13.7 billion in orders are placed
   with FSS annually. In addition to our worldwide supply distribution
   system, FSS negotiates commercial support contracts to provide credit
   card services, low cost travel, fleet vehicle services, overnight
   package delivery and freight services for use by the entire federal
   community.  Federal agencies can also find savings through the FSS
   surplus personal property program by avoiding new procurements.

   Federal Technology Service (FTS)

   The Federal Technology Service provides a wide variety of voice, data,
   and technical support services to federal agencies and eligible state
   and local governments. High quality communications, and equipment and
   services associated with computer data processing and information
   systems, are available through timely, cost-effective, in-place
   contracts administered by FTS. Using advanced digital and satellite
   capabilities to connect telephones, computers, fax machines, and
   videoconference facilities, FTS supports communications for day-to-day
   federal operations and emergency situations. FTS makes it possible to
   meet federal information technology needs simply and effectively.

   Public Buildings Service (PBS)

   The Public Buildings Service provides work environments for more than
   one million federal employees nationwide. PBS serves as a builder,
   developer, lessor, and manager of Federally owned and leased
   properties, managing a national inventory of more than 280 million
   square feet of space. PBS provides a full range of real estate
   services: real estate brokerage, property management, construction and
   repairs, security services, and overall portfolio management.

                            Mid-Atlantic Home Page
