http://www.nsf.gov/home/news.html

   Bypass Top Navigation NSF Home Page
   About NSF
   Funding
   Publications
   News & Media
   Search Site Map

                                  Site Map

   News

                    H    I    G    H    L    I    G    H    T    S

   Bypass Side Navigation


   News
   Quick Links
   Highlights Index
   Special Notices
   Press Releases
   Tip Sheets
   Speeches
   Background Briefings
   Press Statements
   Custom News Service
   Office of Legislative and Public Affairs (OLPA)
   OLPA Directory and Staff
   Search NSF Web
   __________ Submit
   More Search Options
   COOL STUFF
   to Download
   Download this QuickTime Virtual Reality artist's rendering of the
   magnetosphere. Then, read about NSF supported magnetosphere
   researchers.
   See QTVR
   Get QTVR Plug-In
   See related article:
   Magnetic Field Program Attracts Scientific Attention



                              Early Abstract Thinking

      image of Blombos Cave, South Africa Abstract Engravings Show Modern
      Behavior Emerged Earlier Than Previously Thought
      People were able to think abstractly, and accordingly behave as modern
      humans much earlier than previously thought, according to a paper
      appearing in this week's issue of Science.
      Christopher Henshilwood, adjunct professor at the State University of
      New York, Stony Brook, and the Iziko South African Museum in Cape Town
      and his team found abstract representations of two pieces of ochre, two
      and three inches long. The objects, dated to at least 70,000 years ago,
      were recovered from the Middle Stone Age layers at Blombos Cave, a site
      on the southern Cape shore of the Indian Ocean 180 miles east of Cape
      Town, South Africa. Henshilwood's work at the cave is supported by the
      National Science Foundation (NSF).
      More... (posted January 22, 2002)


      image of seal equipped with sealcam Scientists Use Seals as "Underwater
      Eyes"
      By employing one underwater species to "spy" on two others through
      novel use of technology, Antarctic researchers have gained new insights
      into two little-known fish species. The team expanded their knowledge
      base by equipping Weddell seals to follow the fish and record their
      behavior. The fieldwork by an eight-member team at McMurdo Station in
      Antarctica provides a rare glimpse into the habits of two very
      important Southern Ocean species, the Antarctic silverfish and the
      Antarctic toothfish, which is prized by commercial fishing fleets.
      More... (posted January 22, 2002)

                                                                  Back to Top

      image of Canada Glacier in the Wright Valley Pondering a Climate
      Conundrum in Antarctica
      Antarctica overall has cooled measurably during the last 35 years -
      despite a global average increase in air temperature of 0.06 degrees
      Celsius during the 20th century - making it unique among the Earth's
      continental landmasses, according to a paper published today in the
      online version of Nature. Researchers with the National Science
      Foundation (NSF) Long-term Ecological Research (LTER) site in
      Antarctica's Dry Valleys -- a perpetually snow-free, mountainous area
      adjacent to McMurdo Sound -- argue in the paper that long-term data
      from weather stations across the continent, coupled with a separate set
      of measurements from the Dry Valleys, confirm each other and
      corroborate the continental cooling trend.
      More... (posted January 22, 2002)

                                                                  Back to Top

      image of Golgi apparatus Recycled Proteins May Lead to Cellular Drug
      Delivery System
      A team of researchers at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg has uncovered a
      new function of the Golgi apparatus, a subcellular structure that
      prepares proteins for export from the cell. The discovery may have
      implications for medication delivery and pharmaceutical development.
      Researchers were surprised to learn that the Golgi is constantly being
      assembled and disassembled. The disassembled Golgi proteins are then
      reused within the cell. This fundamental discovery could open
      possibilities for attaching drugs to Golgi proteins and using the
      disassembly process to deliver precise amounts of medications to
      specific locations within a cell. More... (posted January 22, 2002)

                                                                  Back to Top


                             More News Highlights for
                      2002 | 2001 | 2000 | 1999 | 1998 | 1997

   Recent NSF Headlines

                        Complete list of current headlines.
   Special Initiatives
   Electronic Signatures
   Effective June 1, 2001, NSF will be requiring the use of electronic
   signatures on proposals. This will eliminate the requirement for
   organizations to submit a paper signed Proposal Cover Sheet. More
   Information...

   Grant Proposal Guide
   The new edition is out. This version supersedes the prior version of
   the GPG (NSF 00-2) and the Proposal Forms Kit (NSF 00-3)

   Engineering News
   Find out the latest news from the world of engineering.

   SBE Science Nuggets
   Learn about the latest research in the behavioral and social sciences
   and NSF's international efforts.

   Bayer/NSF Award
   Find out what's new with NSF's major outreach effort, the Bayer/NSF
   Award.

                            What's New on NSF Web

   Find out about the latest additions to the NSF Web site.

   Last Modified: Jan 22, 2002 Back to Top

   nsf.gov
   | About NSF | Funding | Publications | News & Media | Search | Site Map
   | Help
   NSF Celebrating 50 Years The National Science Foundation
   4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230, USA
   Tel: 703-292-5111, FIRS: 800-877-8339 | TDD: 703-292-5090 Contact NSF
   Customize
