http://www.dcb.uscourts.gov/pdf_files/341_mtg.pdf

   U.S. Department of Justice Office of the United States Trustee Eastern
   District of Virginia Alexandria Division and District of Columbia 115
   S. Union Street (703) 557-7176 Suite 210 Fax: (703) 557-7279
   Alexandria, Virginia 22314 IMPORTANT 341 MEETING POLICY CHANGE To:
   Bankruptcy Practitioners and Pro Se Debtors From: W. Clarkson McDow,
   Jr., United States Trustee Re: Debtor Identification Program Reasons:
   Increased incidence of identity theft and inaccurate social security
   reporting on debtors' schedules Date: January 2, 2002 Effective for all
   creditor meetings scheduled on or after February 1, 2002 all individual
   debtors are required to provide picture identification and proof of
   social security number to the trustee at the 341 meeting. Acceptable
   types of picture identification: Valid state driver license, state
   issued picture identification card, military, passport or legal
   resident alien card. Acceptable proof of social security number("SSN"):
   Social security card, a W-2 form for the most recent tax year or other
   official document which indicates name and SSN. Consequences for
   failure to have required documents: If a debtor does not have
   acceptable documents, the 341 meeting will be held but then continued
   to the trustee's next calendar to allow for the production of the
   required documentation. Failure to produce the documents may result in
   a Motion to Dismiss filed by the United States Trustee. Consequences
   for error in SSN: If there is an error, you will be required to file an
   Amended Petition pursuant to Fed. R. Bankr.P. 1009 within ten days from
   the creditors meeting to correct any incorrect social security number.
   Failure to do so may result in a Motion To Dismiss pursuant to 11
   U.S.C.ยง707(a) filed by the United States Trustee.1 Goal is to protect
   innocent third parties from intentional and inadvertent use of SSN:
   Bankruptcy filings are primarily reported to credit agencies by social
   security number. The cost and hardship to correct an adverse credit
   history can be substantial. With your assistance, we should be able to
   limit the impact. We appreciate your cooperation in implementing this
   new policy. If you have any questions or suggestions, please contact me
   or Dennis J. Early, Assistant United States Trustee. 1Failure to
   correct social security number may result in dismissal. See, In re
   Riccardo, 248 B.R. 717 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 2000)
