http://mentor.lanl.gov/RobotsBeware.html

                    [nobot.gif] Robots Beware [smullnb.gif]

Effective 1 Jan '96: "We attack back."

  millions and billions of distinct URL's

   This www server has been under all-too-frequent attack from
   "intelligent agents" (a.k.a. "robots", and more recently,
   "accelerators", and "link checkers") that mindlessly download every
   link encountered, ultimately trying to access the entire database
   through the listings links. In most cases, these processes are run by
   well-intentioned but thoughtless neophytes, ignorant of common sense
   guidelines.

   (Very few of these same robotrunners would ever dream of downloading
   entire databases via anonymous ftp, but for some reason conceptualize
   www sites as somehow associated only to small and limited databases.
   This mentality must change --- large databases such as this one [which
   has millions of distinct URL's that lead to gigabytes of data] are
   likely to grow ever more commonly exported via www.)

   Following a proposed standard for robot exclusion, this site has
   maintained since early '94 a file /robots.txt that specifies those
   URL's that are off-limits to robots.
   (And this "Robots Beware" page was originally posted March 1994.)

   We are not willing to play sitting duck to nonsensical methods of
   "indexing" information. (Presumably you neither would be terribly
   thrilled if every aspiring encyclopedia editor were to send a gang of
   blind 600 lb gorillas to your library, armed with a photocopy machine.)
   We also have no intention of inconveniencing in any way our many tens
   of thousands of real users, just because a small handful of
   misconfigured miscreants -- with neither interest in, nor understanding
   of, our actual content -- is incapable of abiding by well-posted
   guidelines.

   This server is configured to monitor activity and deny access to sites
   that violate the above guidelines. Continued rapid-fire requests from
   any site after access has been denied (i.e. with 403 Access denied HTTP
   response) will be interpreted as a network attack; and we will respond
   accordingly --- without hesitation, and without further warning.
   (Click here to initiate automated "seek-and-destroy" against your
   site.)

   If some specific application requires relaxation of the above
   guidelines, contact www-admin@arXiv.org in advance of any attempted
   download. This system is not responsible for the consequences of
   automated downloads attempted in violation of the above guidelines.

  return to arXiv form interface


    www-admin@arXiv.org
