http://fire.pppl.gov/ICF_Happer2.PDF

   Review of the Department of Energy's Inertial Confinement Fusion
   Program Final Report Second Review of the Department of Energy's
   Inertial Confinement Fusion Program Final Report Committee for a Second
   Review of the Department of Energy's Inertial Confinement Fusion
   Program Commission on Physical Sciences, Mathematics, and Applications
   National Research Council National Academy of Sciences 2101
   Constitution Avenue Washington, D.C. 204 18 Work Performed under
   Contract DE-AC0 I -89DP20 154 with the Department of Energy NATIONAL
   ACADEMY PRESS 2101 Constitution Avenue Washington, D.C. 204 18
   September 1990 NOTICE: The project that is the subject of this report
   was approved by the Governing Board of the National Research Council,
   whose members are drawn from the councils of the National Academy of
   Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of
   Medicine. The members of the committee responsible for the report were
   chosen for their special competences and with regard for appropriate
   balance. This report has been reviewed by a group other than the
   authors according to procedures approved by a Report Review Committee
   consisting of members of the National Academy of Sciences, the National
   Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine. The National
   Academy of Sciences is a private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society
   of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering
   research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to
   their use for the general welfare. Upon the authority of the charter
   granted to it by the Congress in 1863, the Academy has a mandate that
   requires it to advise the federal government on scientific and
   technical matters. Dr. Frank Press is president of the National Academy
   of Sciences. The National Academy of Engineering was established in
   1964, under the charter of the National Academy of Sciences, as a
   parallel organization of outstanding engineers. It is autonomous in its
   administration and in the selection of its members, sharing with the
   National Academy of Sciences the responsibility for advising the
   federal government. The National Academy of Engineering also sponsors
   engineering programs aimed at meeting national needs, encourages
   education and research, and recognizes the superior achievements of
   engineers. Dr. Robert M. White is president of the National Academy of
   Engineering. The Institute of Medicine was established in 1970 by the
   National Academy of Sciences to secure the services of eminent members
   of appropriate professions in the examination of policy matters
   pertaining to the health of the public. The Institute acts under the
   responsibility given to the National Academy of Sciences by its
   congressional charter to be an adviser to the federal government and,
   upon its own initiative, to identify issues of medical care, research,
   and education. Dr. Samuel O. Thier is president of the Institute of
   Medicine. The National Research Council was organized by the National
   Academy of Sciences in 1916 to associate the broad community of science
   and technology with the Academy's purposes of furthering knowledge and
   advising the federal government. Functioning in accordance with general
   policies determined by the Academy, the Council has become the
   principal operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and
   the National Academy of Engineering in providing services to the
   government, the public, and the scientific and engineering communities.
   The Council is administered jointly by both Academies and the Institute
   of Medicine. Dr. Frank Press and Dr. Robert M. White are chairman and
   vice chairman, respectively, of the National Research Council. This
   work related to Department of Energy Contract DE-AC0 1 -89DP20 154
   issued by the Department of Energy. However, the content does not
   necessarily reflect the position or the policy of the Department of
   Energy or the government, and no official endorsement should be
   inferred. The United States Government has at least a royalty-free,
   nonexclusive, and irrevocable license throughout the world for
   government purposes to publish, translate, reproduce, deliver, perform,
   and dispose of all or any of this work, and to authorize others so to
   do. Copies available from: Naval Studies Board National Research
   Council 2 10 1 Constitution Avenue Washington, D.C. 204 18 Printed in
   the United States of America . ICF Review 111 Commission on Physical
   Sciences, Mathematics, and Applications Norman Hackerman, Robert A.
   Welch Foundation, Chairman Peter J. Bickel, University of California at
   Berkeley George F. Carrier, Harvard University Herbert D. Doan, The Dow
   Chemical Company (retired) Dean E. Eastman, IBM, T.J. Watson Research
   Center Marye Anne Fox, University of Texas Phillip A. Griffiths, Duke
   University Neal F. Lane, Rice University Robert W. Lucky, AT&T Bell
   Laboratories Christopher F. McKee, University of California at Berkeley
   Richard S. Nicholson, American Association for the Advancement of
   Science Jeremiah P. Ostriker, Princeton University Observatory Alan
   Schriesheim, Argonne National Laboratory Roy F. Schwitters,
   Superconducting Super Collider Laboratory Kenneth G. Wilson, Ohio State
   University Staff Norman Metzger, Executive Director iv ICF Review
   Committee for a Review of the Department of Energy's Inertial
   Confinement Fusion Program Steven E. Koonin, California Institute of
   Technology, Chairman George F. Carrier, Harvard University Robert F.
   Christy, California Institute of Technology Robert W. Conn, University
   of California, Los Angeles Ronald C. Davidson, Massachusetts Institute
   of Technology John M. Dawson, University of California, Los Angeles
   Anthony J. DeMaria, United Technologies Corporation Research Center
   Paul M. Doty, Harvard University William Happer, Jr., Princeton
   University Gerald L. Kulcinski, University of Wisconsin Conrad L.
   Longmire, Mission Research Corporation James R. Powell, Jr., Brookhaven
   National Laboratory Marshall N. Rosenbluth, University of California,
   San Diego Jack P. Ruina, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Robert
   L. Sproull, University of Rochester Maury Tigner, Cornell University
   Richard L. Wagner, Kaman Diversified Technologies Corporation DoE
   Liaison Representatives David N. Bixler, Inertial Fusion Division
   Sheldon L. Kahalas, Office of Research and Advanced Technology Marshall
   Sluyter, Inertial Fusion Division Consultants Sidney G. Reed,
   Rockville, Maryland James G. Wilson, Arlington, Virginia Staff Officer
   Lee M. Hunt, National Research Council ICF Review V PREFACE The
   Department of Energy National Security and Military Applications of
   Nuclear Energy Authorization Act of 1985 directed the President to
   establish a "technical review group to review thoroughly the
   accomplishments, management, goals, and anticipated contributions of
   the defense inertial confinement program." The congressional language
   called for an interim report by June 1, 1985, and a final report by May
   I, 1986. The more detailed terms of reference for the study were as
   follows: The Technical Review Group will review the accomplishments,
   management, goals, and anticipated contributions of the Defense
   Inertial Confinement Fusion Program. The Technical Review Group shall
   consist of individuals who are highly qualified in scientific
   disciplines associated with the development and testing of nuclear
   weapons. The Technical Review Group will review all major areas of the
   inertial fusion program. The Technical Review Group shall prioritize
   activities within the present and future [Inertial Confinement Fusion]
   ICF Program and present an appropriate time scale for attaining the
   program goals. In his letter of December 20, 1984, the President's
   Science Advisor called on the National Academy of Sciences to carry out
   the directed review. In response, the Academy established the Committee
   for a Review of the Department of Energy's Inertial Confinement Fusion
   Program under the chairmanship of Dr. William Happer, Jr., of Princeton
   University. The committee, made up of ten carefully chosen scientists,
   conducted its review during 1985 and issued its final report in March
   1986. Prominent among the several findings of that review were the
   following. It is important to recognize that the present state of
   knowledge does not permit a narrow focusing of the ICF Program. At the
   same time, budget limitations require a prioritization of activities.
   We believe that approximately five years at current budget levels is
   required to resolve critical technical issues of ICF feasibility. The
   Committee unanimously recommends that the budget should be stable
   during this five-year period and at a level adequate to achieve the
   highest priority objectives, which, we believe, is approximately at the
   current level ($155 million/year). In considering the findings
   contained in this report, it is important to remember that the five-
   year research and development period set by the Happer, committee will
   not end until March 1991, and that the ICF Program has not been
   level-funded during the 1986-1989 period. Further, congressional
   interest in a second review three years after the Happer, report was
   undoubtedly stimulated by very positive research results obtained
   during the interval and by growing interest within the ICF community in
   selecting and building a driver at the next energy plateau. The present
   review of the ICF program resulted from language contained in the FY89
   authorization and appropriating bills that directed the Secretary of
   Energy to commission an independent review, the interim report of which
   to be due by January 15, 1990, and the final vi ICF Review report by
   September 15, 1990.' On January 21, 1989, representatives of DoE called
   on the Academy to establish a committee to carry out the directed
   review. The task was approved by both the Commission on Physical
   Sciences, Mathematics, and Resources and the Executive Committee of the
   Governing Board on February 10, 1989. The Inertial Confinement Fusion
   Review Committee, chaired by Dr. Steven Koonin of the California
   Institute of Technology, and made up of seven members from the Happer
   committee and ten new members, was formally constituted in May 1989. We
   are most grateful to the representatives from each of the laboratories
   for their extensive briefings and documentation, and for the candor of
   their interactions with us. We would also like to express our
   appreciation to the DoE representatives for their continuing support,
   and to Fusion Power Advisory Committee (FPAC) members W. Hermannsfeldt
   and B. Ripin for their assistance during the latter phases of our
   deliberations. `The General Accounting Office (GAO) was also requested
   by the Congress, in connection with the same authorization bill, to
   conduct a study of the Performance of participants in DOE'S ICF
   Program. Their report, GAO/RCED-90-113BR was issued in March 1990. In
   response to another request, by the Honorable Jon Kyl of the House of
   Representatives, the GAO also did a study of DoE's Acceptance of
   Academy of Sciences' 1986 lnertial Fusion Technical Priorities, with a
   report GAO/RCED-90-115FS in March 1990. ICF Review vii CONTENTS I.
   Introduction 1 II. Technical Background 3 III. ICF and Nuclear Weapons
   5 IV. Nature of the ICF Program 7 V. Overview of the Recommendations 8
   VI. Recommendations 10 VII. Conclusions and Recommendations for the
   Individual Laboratories 17 VII. 1 Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory 17 VII. 1 a. Target Physics 17 VII. 1 b. Advanced Drivers 18
   VII.2 Los Alamos National Laboratory 18 VII.3 Sandia National
   Laboratories 20 VII.4 Naval Research Laboratory 21 VII.5 Laboratory for
   Laser Energetics 21 VII.6 KMS Fusion, Inc. 22 VII.7 Lawrence Berkeley
   Laboratory 23 VIII. Budget Considerations 25 APPENDICES I. Target
   Physics Technical Contract 28 II. Cryogenic Target Development
   Technical Contract 36 III. Technical Contract for the NOVA Upgrade
   Beamlet Demonstration 38 GLOSSARY FOR COMMITTEE REPORT 42 ICF Review 1
   I. INTRODUCTION This report of the second review by the National
   Research Council of inertial confinement fusion (ICF) contains the
   appointed committee's final conclusions and recommendations. An interim
   report was issued in January 1990. The charge to the committee was as
   follows: 1. Determine whether the recommendations of the 1985 NAS
   review are still appropriate to advance the technology efficaciously.
   2. Provide an assessment of the most promising technologies for
   continuation of the program. 3. Assess the potential contributions of
   the program under the following scenarios: (a) a comprehensive test ban
   on underground nuclear testing and (b) prohibition of underground
   nuclear testing to levels of 1 kiloton, 5 kilotons, and 10 kilotons. 4.
   Assess the civilian energy potential of ICICF. 5. Assess the adequacy
   of the ICF target performance data base for supporting program plans
   and decision milestones. 6. Identify major technical and programmatic
   issues facing the program. 7. Determine the status of each major
   candidate inertial fusion driver (including heavy-ion drivers), and
   specify the critical issues involved in the development of each. 8.
   Recommend program priorities, particularly with regard to the
   Centurion/Halite program, driver development, and laboratory
   experiments and theory. Recommend relative priorities of individual
   support laboratory activities. 9. Examine the strategies and plans of
   the ICF Program, comment on their soundness, cohesiveness, and
   programmatic effectiveness, and recommend management initiatives that
   could improve the progress of the program toward achieving of its
   goals. The major difference between the 1985 and 1989 reviews is the
   request for greater attention to the energy potential of the ICF
   Program and to the heavy-ion work being carried out by the Lawrence
   Berkeley Laboratory (LBL) at the University of California. The LBL
   heavy-ion effort is currently supported by DOE'S Basic Energy Sciences
   Program under its Office of Energy Research. The findings contained in
   this interim report are based on the extensive briefings and
   documentation obtained through our organizational meeting (July 18-19,
   1989), writing session (December 4-6, 1989), and site visits to all but
   one of the participating laboratories: Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory (LLNL; August 15-16, 1989), LBL (August 16, 1989), KMS
   Fusion (October 16, 1989), University of Rochester's Laboratory for
   Laser Energetics (LLE; October 23-25, 1989), Los Alamos National
   Laboratory (LANL; November 1-3, 1989), and Sandia National Laboratories
   (SNL; November 3, 1989). The committee did not meet at the Naval
   Research Laboratory (NRL), but the results of that laboratory's
   research were amply briefed at other meetings. A meeting was held at
   DOE Headquarters on June 5-6, 1990, to review comments by the
   representatives of the laboratories and DOE on the Interim Report, and
   to hear a presentation of a new LLNL proposal (NOVA Upgrade) for an
   accelerated effort to achieve ignition and gain in the laboratory,
   Another meeting was held at DOE Headquarters on August 1, 1990, to hear
   comments from the ICF program participants on the NOVA Upgrade
   proposal, and a subsequent meeting was held in La Jolla on August 21,
   1990, to consider future experiments possible with the AURORA facility.
   On August 2 ICF Review 29-30, 1990, a meeting was held at SNL to review
   progress on milestones for the light-ion driver program and to write
   the final report. In addition, the laboratories provided written
   responses to detailed questions from the committee. Although chemical
   lasers are not a part of the current ICF Program, the committee also
   allowed time for two presentations on the hydrogen fluoride (HF) laser
   and reviewed extensive documentation on that approach. Since the ICF
   Interim Report was issued, DOE has constituted the Fusion Power
   Advisory Committee (FPAC) to recommend an overall policy for fusion
   energy, including magnetic confinement and ICF. There has been a strong
   and mutually beneficial interaction between FPAC and our committee.
   This final report has a number of important changes from the interim
   report. The recommendations and associated discussions have been
   revised completely. It should be read as a stand-alone document. ICF
   Review 3 II. TECHNICAL BACKGROUND The technical goal of DOE'S program
   in ICF is to produce small thermonuclear explosions in the laboratory.
   The potential military uses of these explosions include extending
   capabilities to simulate the effects of nuclear weapons on hardware
   that must function in a nuclear environment, exploring the basic atomic
   physics and hydrodynamics important for weapons design, developing
   instrumentation and techniques to study full-scale nuclear tests, and
   exploring advanced weapons concepts. The potential long-term civilian
   application of ICF is energy production. The basic idea in ICF is to
   use a "driver" to compress and heat a small capsule of nuclear fuel
   (the deuterium and tritium isotopes of hydrogen) to the point where the
   fuel ignites', releasing energy and radiation. To do this, a large
   amount of precisely controlled energy must be delivered to the capsule
   in a very short time, and the capsule must be constructed to absorb the
   energy efficiently. Driver performance and capsule design/fabrication
   are thus the major requirements for a successful ICF Program. The
   current ICF Program is pursuing a variety of possible drivers: glass
   lasers, krypton fluoride (KrF) excimer lasers, light-ion beams, and
   heavy-ion beams. Other drivers have been considered and abandoned. The
   current driver options have their relative advantages and drawbacks and
   are in various stages of development. None of the existing facilities
   is powerful enough to achieve ignition. There are two types of ICF
   targets. "Direct-drive" targets absorb the energy of the driver
   directly into the fuel capsule. "Indirect-drive" targets use a cavity
   (hohlraum) to convert the driver energy to x-rays, which are then
   absorbed by the fuel capsule. This latter method can tolerate greater
   inhomogeneities in driver illumination, albeit at the expense of
   efficient delivery of energy to the capsule. The ICF Program has passed
   a number of significant technical milestones since the time of the
   Happer report. Experiments have been done with the NOVA laser operating
   at its full design energy; techniques have been developed for smoothing
   laser beams; new diagnostic techniques and instrumentation have been
   developed; and direct-drive targets have been imploded to densities
   several hundred times that of liquid hydrogen. Further work in the
   Centurion/Halite program of underground experiments has shown
   qualitatively that the basic concept behind ICF is sound. Although
   increasingly sophisticated laboratory experiments and computer models
   have tempered the early optimism that small drivers would be sufficient
   for laboratory ignition, they are also leading toward firmer estimates
   of the minimum driver size required. A significant near-term goal of
   the ICF Program should be to achieve ignition and modest gain' (2-10)
   in the laboratory by a dedicated effort using a largely renovated NOVA.
   Other goals are to construct a laboratory microfusion facility (LMF)
   that would produce high gain and yields exceeding several tens of
   megajoules,and/or development of ICF for energy production (inertial
   fusion energy (IFE). An LMF would have important military applications
   almost immediately. A crucial issue for our panel was whether there is
   now sufficient `By ignition, as used in this context, means that the
   "hot spot" fuel in the center of the implosion attains sufficient
   temperature and density so that its thermonuclear reactions not only
   heat the hot spot further, but also promote burning of the compressed
   pusher fuel. She "gain" is the ratio of the thermonuclear energy
   released (yield) to the energy delivered to the target by the driver. 4
   ICF Review confidence in driver and target technology to proceed
   directly with the LMF, or a large IFE project, or whether the
   intermediate step of demonstrating ignition and modest gain (2-10) with
   a less ambitious facility should be undertaken first. ICF Review III.
   ICF AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS The relationship between ICF and nuclear
   weapons is real and substantial, although complex. Observations on this
   relationship are presented in the following paragraphs. The ICF Program
   is part of the nuclear weapons program because the basic physics of ICF
   capsule heating, implosion, and burn is the same as that in nuclear
   weapons. In addition, many of the radiation/hydrodynamic phenomena
   (e.g., mix and instabilities) that influence nuclear weapon performance
   also influence ICF capsule performance, although there are important
   differences (due largely to the different sizes). Some of these
   phenomena, as well as the more basic physics, can be studied more
   easily in laboratory ICF experiments than in underground tests (UGTs),
   both because many more experiments can be done and because some
   diagnostics can be used in the laboratory that cannot be used
   underground. Sophis- ticated computer codes have been developed to
   model ICF physics and to aid in target design, notably the LASNEX code.
   Results of these theoretical efforts have been of interest to the
   nuclear weapons program, as they have many similarities to weapons work
   addressing similar issues; these developments in the ICF and weapons
   programs have been mutually supportive. Diagnostic methods for UGTs can
   be, and have been, developed using ICF experiments, and challenges
   involved in ICF target fabrication have led to improvements in the
   laboratories' capabilities in materials processing and precision
   finishing, which are now available for use in the weapons program. The
   ICF facilities themselves, apart from capsule implosion experiments,
   have been useful to the weapons program because of their unique
   capabilities and relatively easy availability. Such uses have included
   experiments on hydrodynamic instability phenomena, investigations of
   the opacities and equations of state of matter at high temperatures and
   densities, and studies of physical processes in X-ray lasers. ICF
   facilities have also proved useful in investigating some types of
   nuclear weapons effects and the lethality of directed- energy weapons.
   To date, ICF has had a limited (but real) effect on the weapons design
   program. However, its impact is growing. One measure is that 20 percent
   of the NOVA experiments carried out in FY89 were related to weapons
   physics, and half of those were supported with non-ICF weapons program
   funding and personnel; such weapons. use has increased dramatically in
   the past few years. The target development leading to an LMF will
   increase the benefits to weapons and a working LMF would raise this
   ICF/weapons design interaction to a significantly higher level. These
   increased benefits could be realized even before ignition and burn are
   achieved, as pre-ignition phenomena are also important. Of course,
   ignition would open a new and important way to study thermonuclear
   phenomena in the laboratory. Another important aspect for the weapons
   program is that ICF can attract scientists and engineers, and develop
   and maintain skills directly applicable to weapons design. This benefit
   and the more technical benefits described above are closely related `to
   the amount of data available from underground nuclear testing, which is
   influenced both by funding and by treaty limitations on test yields or
   numbers. Physics understanding gained efficiently from ICF experiments
   can reduce risks of failure in UGTs or allow larger parameter ranges to
   be tested. However, the different sizes, the absence of fission
   phenomena, and many other considerations mean that ICF experiments
   alone cannot provide-today or in any foreseeable circumstance-an
   adequate basis either for the design and production of new nuclear
   weapons or for the complete evaluation of stockpile reliability,
   although ICF would play an important role in maintaining competence
   under severe test limitations. The value and optimal schedule for an
   LMF depends on the status of underground testing. An LMF becomes more
   valuable with greater limitations on underground testing, 6 ICF Review
   whether in number of tests or in yield. Under a limitation by quota,
   while the difference between no tests and even a very few is a
   significant one for the weapons program as a whole, the importance of
   an LMF depends less on the precise testing situation. If there were
   only one or two tests a year, LMF benefits might be almost as great to
   the weapons program as if there were no testing. This may be especially
   true for diagnostics developed in the ICF Program for underground
   tests. If numbers of tests are limited by funding rather than treaty, a
   trade-off is implied against progress toward an LMF, which is also
   funding-limited. We cannot evaluate that trade-off, but suggest that it
   may soon become an important decision criterion. With regard to yield
   threshold treaties, the value of ICF to the weapons program may change
   qualitatively at a few kilotons. Below that level, the importance of
   ICF is expected to increase greatly. Because of the severe trauma that
   would be induced in the weapons program, it is difficult to spell out
   in any detail what normal UGT functions could or should be shifted over
   to an LMF. It is clear, however, that under a complete test ban ICF
   would be extremely important for maintaining vitality and technical
   capability in the weapons program. Another military benefit from ICF is
   the potential to provide above-ground radiation sources for studying
   the effects of nuclear explosions on military hardware. ICF explosions
   emit x-rays and neutrons with a time dependence that is characteristic
   of the fastest nuclear weapon outputs; both can be slowed by external
   means. The energy spectra of the x-rays and neutrons are characteristic
   of the most energetic weapon outputs, but again the energies of both
   can be moderated and fast neutrons can be converted to gamma rays by
   inelastic scattering in an external layer. The simulation fidelity
   achievable for both x-rays and gamma rays should be superior to that
   from present electrically pulsed x-ray simulators. Yields from ICF of
   30 MJ or more would allow exposing electronics boxes to x-rays and
   gamma rays. Larger yields would provide radiation for groups of boxes
   and their interconnecting cables. At 1000 MJ, the upper end of the
   range of ICF yields being considered for an LMF, interesting x-ray and
   gamma ray exposures could be provided for electronic systems with
   dimensions up to several meters. The effects of x-rays on such
   structures as reentry vehicles could also be tested. For example, 1000
   MJ should provide about 100 Cal/cm' of x-rays at a distance of 3 m from
   the ICF source. It is clear that the convenience and repeatability
   provided by an LMF for such tests would be a great advantage. We are
   not advocating the cessation of UGTs, but note that a total nuclear
   weapons test ban would not have to stop radiation testing if an LMF
   were available. If the allowable yield threshold dropped below 1
   kiloton, the need for an LMF would become great. ICF Review 7 IV.
   NATURE OF THE ICF PROGRAM Seven laboratories are involved in the DOE'S
   ICF Program: . Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), pursuing
   a predominantly indirect-drive program (with a small direct-drive
   component), featuring a glass laser system (NOVA) and, until recently,
   also the Halite program of underground experiments; . Los Alamos
   National Laboratory (LANL), pursuing an indirect drive KrF laser
   (AURORA) and, until recently, also the Centurion program of underground
   experiments; . Sandia National Laboratories (SNL), pursuing a light-ion
   driver (PBFA-II); . Naval Research Laboratory (NRL), pursuing the
   direct-drive approach with a KrF laser (NIKE); . Laboratory for Laser
   Energetics (LLE) at the University of Rochester, pursuing the
   direct-drive approach with a glass laser (OMEGA); . KMS Fusion, Inc., a
   commercial organization working on target fabrication; and . Lawrence
   Berkeley Laboratory (LBL), pursuing heavy-ion drivers. The ICF Program
   began formally in 1963. Total funding since that time has amounted to
   $2.52 B. Currently, all efforts except that on heavy-ion drivers are
   funded by the Office of Defense Programs; its total FY90 budget for ICF
   was $169.2 M, divided into "operating" $160.6 M and "capital" $8.6 M.
   Work on heavy-ion drivers is funded out of the DOE'S Office of Energy
   Research and amounted to $6.3 M in FY90. Roughly 1250 scientists and
   engineers are supported by the entire ICF Program. The committee was
   impressed by the high level of science and technology in the ICF
   Program. There is an inherent scientific interest, technological
   spinoffs, and a relevance to weapons physics and weapon effects
   simulation. The ICF Program strengthens related scientific programs in
   the national laboratories by attracting a high calibre of personnel. It
   is the committee's impression that the present ICF Program was somewhat
   distracted from orderly scientific progress by a desire to push ahead
   directly to the LMF. As a consequence, existing facilities were not
   being fully utilized, and important experiments were not being done,
   Recent efforts to exploit NOVA have begun to rectify this situation.
   The Happer panel recommended a five-year program at level funding
   (after correction for inflation) to ascertain the physics credibility
   of ICF, with a subsequent decision about continuing the program. Good
   progress has been made in the intervening years, but because funding
   has fallen significantly short of the recommended level and because the
   ICF effort is divided among six different laboratories with different
   approaches, all program objectives would not be met with the funds
   available. However, the program is now at the point where, with
   adequate funding, the physics and driver technology could be in place
   in a few years for a firm decision whether to proceed with an ignition
   demonstration facility, and subsequently a larger facility, whether for
   defense or IFE. 8 ICF Review V. OVERVIEW OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS The
   committee believes that, after some 27 years and $2.5 B, there is a
   reasonable chance for laboratory ignition and gain with the next major
   ICF facility, given favorable results from a few well-defined crucial
   experiments. This conclusion is based on a number of independent
   elements, which include increasingly sophisticated laboratory
   experiments, the results of the Halite/Centurion program of underground
   tests, and improved theoretical understanding and modeling of hohlraum
   and capsule physics. Ignition and gain in the laboratory represent an
   important milestone for the ICF Program and a necessary first step
   toward fusion applications, be they defense or energy. Only after such
   a demonstration will it be possible to plan realistically and
   quantitatively for the future of ICF. Discussions within the ICF
   community during the past few years have assumed an LMF (with yields to
   1 GJ and immediate defense applications) as the next large project. An
   LMF for defense purposes may indeed be a natural product of the ICF
   program on a lo- to 20-year time scale, but considering the
   extrapolations required in target physics and driver performance, as
   well as the likely $lB cost, the committee believes that an LMF is too
   large a step to take directly from the present program. However, recent
   theoretical arguments, experimental results, and laser designs have
   convinced us that it should be possible to closely approach, and
   probably achieve, ignition and modest gain in the laboratory by the
   intermediate step of a few-megajoule class laser driver, which might be
   constructed for less than $400 M. A successful "ignition demonstration"
   would allow exploration of the drive and target parameters to optimize
   gain, study of the physics of thermonuclear burn in the laboratory, and
   testing of advanced target designs. These programs would form the basis
   for a high-confidence decision on an LMF and would motivate and support
   a concerted effort toward IFE. The committee believes that it is now
   realistic to begin planning for such an ignition demonstration,
   although a final commitment to construction will require several more
   years of experimental and design work. In particular, experiments are
   required to confirm adequate understanding of laser-plasma interactions
   and capsule performance in the relevant regimes. These can be carried
   out with existing facilities, somewhat improved, and with those
   facilities currently proposed. The glass laser is the only candidate
   laser driver that could be used for an ignition demonstration in the
   next decade. Indeed, this demonstration is the natural next step in the
   NOVA program and is referred to by LLNL as the "NOVA Upgrade." The
   committee cannot judge whether, if all drivers were sufficiently
   mature, a glass laser would be the "best" driver; much target work with
   KrF lasers and light- and heavy-ion accelerators would be required to
   match the database of driver and target performance that exists from
   the NOVA and OMEGA programs. The real point is that a glass laser will
   likely allow an ignition demonstration for a reasonable cost, and there
   appears to be no compelling reason to wait for other drivers to "catch
   up." It would be prudent to pursue other driver technologies in
   parallel with an ignition demonstration, even if only at a modest
   level. As the committee has noted, while success with a glass laser
   appears likely, it is not certain. Experiments in the next few years
   might not turn out as expected, or the required driver performance
   might prove to be too costly (or even impossible) to achieve, or
   suitable targets may not be available. Moreover, glass lasers are
   unsuited for IFE; the efficiency and pulse repetition rate of KrF
   lasers and heavy- and light- ion accelerators make them much more
   attractive for this application. Unfortunately, budget realities are
   such that the present level of funding for the ICF Program cannot
   continue to support all candidate drivers in view of the cost of
   planning for, ICF Review and attempting, an ignition demonstration.
   Unless additional funds are made available, our recommendations
   therefore amount to a de facro selection of a driver for an ignition
   demonstration and a focusing of resources to pass the major milestone
   of ignition. 10 ICF Review VI. RECOMMENDATIONS The recommendations
   below are made with an appreciation of the likely very tight federal
   funding situation. The committee wishes it to be understood that the
   ICF Program is regarded overall, in its entirety, as a well-managed and
   well-executed effort that attracts extremely able scientists and
   engineers to a clear and important national objective. Even those parts
   of the program that are deemed to be of lower priority are worthwhile
   and, if they could be funded, would give the ICF effort more
   resilience, strength in depth, and confidence in reaching its goals.
   Recommendations 1 though 3 below have the highest priority in the
   program and are given in priority order. By this the committee means
   that it is more important to respond to the earlier recommendations
   than the later ones. With the very restricted budgets that are
   expected, this could mean that some low-priority programs will be
   funded inadequately or perhaps even not at all. In this connection, it
   is noted that two of the great strengths of the ICF Program have been
   the variety of different approaches pursued and the involvement of six
   different laboratories. A breadth of approach and a diversity of
   viewpoints have been very important. Although this breadth might be
   diminished by budgetary limitations, it would be very unfortunate at
   this stage if the program were to degenerate into a one-laborat- ory
   program pursuing a single approach. On the other hand, the worst future
   for the program would be one in which a multiplicity of approaches
   would all be pursued at subcritical levels. Recommendation 1: The
   expeditious demonstration of ignition and gain should be the highest
   priority of the ICF Program. Adequate funding toward this goal must be
   assured. The committee believes that such a demonstration could be
   achieved by the end of the decade. It is, in any event, a necessary
   preliminary to energy or defense applications of ICF. To achieve this
   goal, concurrent programs in target physics, driver development, and
   target fabrication are required. In target physics, there must be a
   concerted national effort to resolve the most important remaining
   uncertainties about laboratory ignition. It will involve the use of
   some existing facilities to their full potential, the development of
   appropriate instrumentation, andanextensiveexperimentalcampaign with
   multi-laboratory participation. In driver development, there must be a
   concurrent effort to refine and validate an architecture for a glass
   laser driver so that it is available when the physics milestones have
   been met. Finally, there must also be a commensurate concentration on
   advanced target design and fabrication. Optimally designed targets are
   very important for an ignition demonstration and will also allow the
   program to take maximum advantage of the drivers now available; the
   committee suspects that crucial subtleties (or even radical designs)
   remain to be explored. It is also important that targets be fabricated
   with high precision. Recent demonstrations of the beta-layering3
   technique for cryogenic targets have been encouraging, but many
   fabrication challenges remain. In view of the key role of an ignition
   demonstration, the committee urges that it be attempted as a national,
   interlaboratory program, rather than as a single laboratory (LLNL)
   program. In particular, LANL should play a key role in the target
   design and fabrication and `Beta-layering is a process by which, due to
   the heating of Beta particles emitted in tritium decay, layers of
   frozen deuterium-tritium mixtures can be more uniformly deposited in a
   capsule. ICF Review 11 in the experimental program in preparation for
   an ignition demonstration. Such a national program, with greatly
   expanded participation from LANL (and perhaps other laboratories) in
   the experimental campaigns, would accelerate and enhance the
   credibility of the effort. Discussions to define appropriate roles for
   the various laboratories and specify modes of collaboration among them
   should begin promptly to allow for meaningful national input to the
   effort before designs are frozen. To implement this recommendation, the
   following four subrecommendations are suggested: Recommendation 1 .1:
   We recommend that funds be provided for Precision NOVA and the
   associated experimental campaign. A campaign to validate experimentally
   the theoretical and design predictions could be completed in 3 to 4
   years. The important issues to be addressed and milestones to be passed
   are outlined in the LLNL Target Physics and the Cryogenic Target
   Development Technical Contracts. Unclassified excerpts from these
   documents are reproduced in Appendices I and 11, respectively. These
   research plans, endorsed by the committee, have been presented to, and
   scrutinized by, the broad ICF laboratory community. At the conclusion
   of this campaign, the following are expected: a. Precision NOVA (-5%
   beam balance) will have been completed, as will the Hydrodynamically
   Equivalent Physics (HEP)l-4 campaigns, and HEP5 will have demonstrated
   hot spot densities of 40 gm/cc and pusher compressions to a density of
   400 gm/cc The yield degradation compared to idealized one-dimens- ional
   calculations will have been diagnosed and understood as a function of
   Rayleigh-Taylor growths and convergence sufficiently to make a
   confident extrapolation to NOVA Upgrade performance-enough to guarantee
   at least a thorough exploration of the ignition physics, with a high
   probability of ignition. b. The plasma physics and hohlraum issues will
   have been resolved by hohlraum and laser plasma (HLP)l-6, with HLP7 in
   progress, and it will have been shown that no strong stimulated raman
   scattering (SRS), hot electron production, or disastrous geometry
   changes are to be expected under NOVA Upgrade conditions. C. Suitable
   cryogenic target fabrication will have been demonstrated.
   Recommendation 1.2: We recommend that funds be provided to refine and
   validate the laser architecture proposed for the NOVA Upgrade. A 30 cm
   x 30 cm beamlet of the proposed multipass laser architecture should be
   constructed and demonstrated. The only possible technology for a
   near-term ignition demonstration is the mature solid state laser.
   Furthermore, large savings in time and money would accrue if the
   ignition demonstration were to take advantage of the existing
   experience, infrastructure, and building at LLNL. A prototype beamlet
   is essential, as the proposed multipass architecture differs from the
   current NOVA design. The committee endorses LLNL's Laser Technical
   Contract defining milestones for the design and construction process
   (see Appendix III). This plan has been presented to, and scrutinized
   by, the broad ICF laboratory community. LLNL's long experience with
   glass lasers gives us some confidence in success. When the beamlet has
   been successfully tested, we also expect that LLNL's cost estimate
   (concurred with by LLE) of less 12 ICF Review than $400 M (plus
   operating funds) will have been validated. There is also the very
   attractive option (at some added cost) of constructing a full
   (16-beamlet) 150-kJ prototype beamline that could be used for
   experiments in the weapons program. Recommendation 1.3: We recommend
   that the proposed Omega Upgrade be started immediately. It will
   contribute to the technology and physics expertise needed for an
   ignition demonstration through the NOVA Upgrade. It will also be able
   to explore the option that the NOVA Upgrade target chamber be
   configured for direct drive. There has been significant progress in
   recent direct drive experiments and calculations. Indeed, it is
   possible that this approach will ultimately prove to be the best path
   to ICF. LLE and NRL are the main centers in the United States pursuing
   this approach. The LLE program has been very productive, inventive, and
   cost effective; it is also an important university connection to ICF
   efforts in other countries. The present OMEGA laser has met the
   milestones defined for it in the Happer report and has produced a solid
   record of significant additional achievements listed in Section VII.5.
   OMEGA has been almost fully utilized. Construction of the upgrade is
   essential to retaining momentum in the direct drive approach and to
   refining the optimum NOVA Upgrade design. Recommendations 1.1 through
   1.3 imply a focusing of the national ICF Program. Their successful
   implementation would require major changes in the sociology of the
   national laboratories involved. The committee urges the laboratory
   managements and scientific staff to begin discussions promptly to
   define an effective means to proceed. These recommen- dations would
   also require a change in management style for the multi-laboratory
   effort, with clearly defined milestones, and would need to be
   coordinated more closely than is presently the case. It therefore is
   recommended that DoE form an outside, independent committee to oversee
   the program and monitor its progress toward an ignition demonstration.
   (See Recommendation 1.4.) Given a successful implementation of
   Recommendations 1.1 through 1.3, a final decision to proceed with
   construction of the NOVA Upgrade can be made with high confidence.
   Although the proposed time line is tight, this decision could be made
   as early as 1994. However, project authorization and preliminary
   planning must begin immediately. Recommendation I .4: We recommend that
   the DoE management of ICF be focused in a strong headquarters office
   with direct reporting to a senior level such as a Deputy Assistant
   Secretary. Further, we endorse the Happer report recommendation for the
   establishment of an Inertial Confinement Fusion Advisory Committee. The
   elevation in status of the ICF Program will help to assure that the
   important national effort toward an ignition demonstration will receive
   the necessary high-level attention within the D o E The Inertial Fusion
   Advisory Committee should play a role similar to that played by such
   exemplary DoE advisory committees as the High Energy Physics Advisory
   Panel HEPAP and the Nuclear Science Advisory Committee (NSAC). Its
   membership would be drawn from the national laboratories, universities,
   and industry, and it would provide valuable guidance to DoE on a
   regular basis (perhaps quarterly) in response to specific charges
   regarding program priorities and facility upgrades. All but one of the
   members of the present committee also believe that the long time
   horizon and multi-labora- tory character of the ICF Program require
   that it continue to be funded as a line item in the Defense Programs
   budget. ICF Review Recommendation 2: We recommend that the NIKE laser
   be completed at an accelerated pace and that funding for the NRL
   program continue to ensure its vitality. A KrF laser driver is a prime
   backup should the glass laser program falter. It is also attractive for
   direct-drive IFE. NRL has played a valuable role in developing KrF and
   in the ICF Program more generally. Among its important accomplishments
   is the demonstration of echelon-free induced spatial incoherence (ISI)
   for beam smoothing There will be much to explore with NIKE when it
   becomes operational, for example, the effects of bandwidth and
   techniques for beam smoothing. The NRL program using NIKE is a
   cost-effective effort of the appropriate scale for keeping the KrF
   option viable. Recommendation 3: We recommend that the light-ion
   program at SNL continue at the present level of effort for the next two
   years. During this period, the emphasis of the PBFA-II program should
   be on reducing beam divergence and on well-designed and well-diagnosed
   target physics experiments at increasing power concentrations. There
   should be a major review of technical progress in the summer of 1992 to
   determine whether the beam divergence issues have been adequately
   resolved and whether PBFA-II should be upgraded to higher energies for
   greater gain. Low cost makes a light-ion driver attractive, but there
   are many challenges in pursuing this driver option. At the time that
   Interim Report was released, there had been several recent significant
   advances, most notably the increase in the rate of PBFA-II experiments,
   the focusing of proton beams to intensities of 5 terawatts (TW)/cm*,
   the improved understanding of collective instabilities that can induce
   ion beam divergence in the diode, and the advances in Hermes-III pulsed
   power technology. Nonetheless, overall progress in the light-ion
   program had been slower than projected by SNL at the time of the Happer
   report. We therefore deferred any recommendation on the light-ion
   program until this report. By this time, we expected to be able to
   assess technical progress toward selection of the preferred lithium
   source, together with beam characterization and optimization at 10 MV,
   3 MA, and 14 milliradians (mrad) divergence, in preparation for
   focusing experiments in the IO-TW/cm' range. In the eight months since
   our Interim Report, SNL has surpassed four of the five milestones
   established in December 1989, to measure progress in the light-ion
   program. Significant achievements during ihis period include the
   following: . successful testing of a lithium diode at full energy; .
   efficient coupling of a plasma opening switch to an electron diode; .
   the development of time-dependent diagnostics; generation of a
   high-power, high-purity lithium beam at moderate power; and 41n early
   versions of ISI, a broadband laser output beam is split, by external
   stepped echelons, into many effectively incoherent beamlets which are
   then brought to focus on a target. In echelon-free ISI, a spatial
   filter imposes an intensity profile on the output of a broadband
   multimode laser source. This profile, which consists of many small
   independent zones which take the place of the beamlets in ISI, is
   projected through the laser chain to form a symmetric drive pattern on
   a target. 14 ICF Review . analytical and numerical identification of
   the collective instability mechanism that is likely to be responsible
   for increasing beam divergence above acceptable levels. To achieve the
   power concentrations that eventually will be required for moderate gain
   and/or ignition-scale target experiments, it is essential that high
   priority continue to be given in the near term to reducing beam
   divergence. We also recommend that SNL draw upon the expertise of the
   other laboratories in developing advanced target designs with internal
   pulse shaping. Recommendation 4: We recommend that no substantial TCF
   funds be used to upgrade the AURORA facility. There are several
   potential advantages of the KrF laser, but it is clear that the
   development of gas lasers lags significantly behind glass. As noted
   above, an ignition demonstration with a glass laser can be considered
   seriously now, but a multi-facility, multi-decade program would be
   required to reach the multi-megajoule level with a KrF driver. It is
   apparently difficult and costly to configure AURORA for two-sided
   target implosions with adequate brightness, which might bear on an
   ignition demonstration. While further experiments with the facility
   operating at its current potential could add to the basic physics
   database, they would have little bearing on the ignition demonstration.
   Some additional concerns about the AURORA laser facility that arose
   since our Interim Report and led to this recommendation are discussed
   in Section V11.2. The importance of an ignition demonstration warrants
   devoting additional financial resources to its achievement, even at the
   expense of the AURORA program, if necessary. Recommendation 5: Unless
   substantial increased funding becomes available, we recommend against
   further experiments in the Halite/Centurion program. The
   Halite/Centurion program was one of the highest priorities of the
   Happer report. It was recognized to have a finite lifetime, then
   estimated to be about 5 years. Since that time, an outstanding
   interlaboratory cooperative effort has successfully performed some
   complex Halite/Centurion experiments that have provided extremely
   important data. Because of these successes, the committee now believes
   that uncertainties in ignition arise only from considerations of mix,
   symmetry, and laser-plasma interactions-phenomena that can be studied
   best in laboratory experiments. Thus, while further Halite/Centurion
   experiments more directly addressing ignition conditions would be
   reassuring, they would still leave doubts as to whether mix and
   symmetry considerations are really the same as when laser-plasma
   effects were important. Because of the complexity, cost, and longer
   time scale for the next proposed Halite/Centurion experiment, the
   probable need for several such experiments, and the difficulty of
   underground tests, we do not feel that further Halite/Centurion
   experiments should be funded unless a substantial increment is added to
   ICF funding.5 Recommendation 6: We recommend against funding for
   research to investigate the suitability of hydrogen fluoride (HF)
   lasers for ICF. Since this recommendation was made in the Interim
   Report, we understand that the Halite/Centurion program has effectively
   stopped at the laboratories. ICF Review 15 There is no experience with
   pulsed chemical (HF) lasers anywhere near the required scale. The
   committee shares the prevailing view of the ICF laboratory community
   that a retreat to longer wavelengths makes little sense given the bad
   experience with 1-p and 10-p radiation. Although it is claimed that
   longer wavelengths could be tolerated on a large (IOO- MJ) scale, all
   present indications are that a driver at least an order of magnitude
   smaller than this will be adequate for an LMF or IFE. Given the absence
   of compelling arguments or any institutional support, we do not
   recommend starting a new HF driver program. The proponents of an HF
   laser driver have done a remarkable amount of work on a very small
   budget, and while they have made an arguable case, it is far from a
   compelling one. At long wavelengths, in addition to worries about
   filamentation and hot electrons, it seems difficult to avoid large
   undesirable critical surface motions. In such a complex situation, an
   experimental database is essential. Obtaining one would require
   developing a novel large laser, which experience shows to be always
   slower and more costly than is expected at first. At best, the
   committee views an HF driver as a backup to several backups (KrF and
   light ions); it is one of many candidate drivers. In a situation where
   inadequate budgets are forcing us to recommend constriction of other
   driver programs that are considerably more promising and advanced than
   HF, we cannot recommend pursuing the HF option. Indeed, if it did turn
   out that a lOO-MJ driver were required for ignition and gain, one would
   have to rethink the entire approach to, and rationale for, ICF.
   Recommendation 7: Because the most immediate ICF applications are those
   related to defense, we recommend that the DOE continue to recognize ICF
   as primarily a defense program, rather than an energy program. Energy
   applications of ICF are more difficult than defense applications. A
   program to lay the basis for an ICF option for producing a substantial
   fraction of the nation's energy will require development of a major
   driver, different from that for an ignition demonstration or for an
   LMF; this driver would have to be capable of a high pulse repetition
   rate and be reliable and low in cost. The program would include reactor
   design studies and technology and target development. We concur with
   the FPAC outline of the most promising path to an energy option, which
   recommends demonstration and evaluation of driver technologies that
   have the potential of satisfying reactor requirements, specifically an
   enhanced heavy-ion driver research program and, with lower priority,
   KrF and light-ion drivers. (Details can be found in the final FPAC
   report of September 1990.) A heavy-ion driver is unsuited for an
   ignition demonstration, or for an LMF, but is likely the best choice
   for energy production. Good progress has been made in heavy-ion driver
   development, but some important issues are yet to be resolved;
   heavy-ion driver technology is not sufficiently developed to be ready
   if ignition is indeed demonstrated by the end of the decade. The
   committee recommends that a well-developed plan for addressing these
   issues be formulated, perhaps based on LBL's ILSE proposal. Subject to
   a thorough review by independent accelerator experts' and a careful
   comparison with other demands on funds (which our panel has not done),
   consideration should be given to expanding research in heavy-ion
   drivers to incorporate the next ILSE-scale project with enlarged
   institutional participation. LBL estimates that the ILSE project would
   cost a total of $15 M to 20 M/ year for about 4 years. 6Since the
   release of the Interim Report, two such reviews have been held. 16 ICF
   Review Energy applications could be possible only after many years of
   development. Meanwhile, the target physics investigations, the ignition
   demonstration, and the alternative driver research recommended above
   are on the critical path to energy, as well as to defense applications.
   Energy applications should be considered in a major way only after
   ignition has been demonstrated. Since fusion energy is a long-term
   prospect, we believe that alternative energy sources, such as advanced
   fission reactors, must be developed and employed as a bridge between
   the present situation and an ultimate fusion capability. Recommendation
   8: We recommend that the Secretary of Energy form a panel to review
   present ICF classification guidelines and to schedule future target
   physics declassifications. Classification of target physics information
   beyond a level necessary to hinder proliferation of nuclear weapons
   impedes the progress of ICF research. It restricts the size and variety
   of the community that can contribute to, criticize, and evaluate the
   target physics program. This situation is already limiting progress for
   both the defense and energy programs. Classification and concerns about
   critical technology transfer also limit participation by universities
   and industry, as well as international collaboration. The review we
   recommend should also include an evaluation of how to deal with future
   international developments that might result in the publication of
   currently classified material. There are other regulations and
   practices of DOE and the Department of State that go well beyond
   classification in making international interchanges difficult to
   arrange and less productive. These policies should also be reexamined
   and relaxed where possible. Recommendation 9: We recommend that a
   larger fraction of the ICF Program's target fabrication capabilities be
   located at the program's driver facilities. In the face of very
   restricted budgets, it is essential that all ICF funds be used for the
   maximum benefit of the program. As we have explained in Recommendation
   1, target fabrication is as much a part of the ICF research frontier as
   is performing experiments or developing drivers, and advances in target
   fabrication capabilities are essential for an ignition demonstration.
   Currently, some target fabrication activities are performed by an
   outside contractor, and some by the individual laboratories involved.
   Locating a greater fraction of the target fabrication activities at the
   laboratories would allow a closer contact with the experimental
   programs and a better tailoring of targets to the requirements of each
   individual driver. These advantages must be balanced against needless
   duplication of facilities and expertise. ICF Review 17 VII. CONCLUSIONS
   AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE INDIVIDUAL LABORATORIES An important part
   of our charge is to assess the performance and potential of the
   individual laboratories in the ICF Program. We respond to this in the
   following. VII.1 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Experiments,
   design, and upgrading the NOVA laser accounted for about 85 percent of
   the LLNL ICF budget last year. During this time, the laser operated for
   the first time at its design rating of above 100 kJ at 1.06 ~1. This
   accomplishment was delayed by several years because of both faulty
   laser glass, and insufficient funding. Up to 70 kJ can be converted
   into the blue (3w), and intensities up to 5 x 104-TW/cm' range have
   been demonstrated. NOVA is now, by roughly an order of magnitude, the
   world's most powerful ICF laser driver. NOVA has already performed a
   number of key experiments including studies of neutron yield and
   symmetry as a function of convergence and aspect ratio, as well as
   filamentation and SRS studies at various intensities and wavelengths.
   These preliminary experiments are generally in agreement with
   expectations. Most recently, encouraging results on the beneficial
   effects of pulse shaping have been obtained and the experimental
   achievement of high-temperature hohlraums with satisfactory implosions
   has been of particular interest. This latter accomplishment is the
   basis of the ignition demonstration proposal. It is our assessment that
   the technological effort, the experimental expertise, and the
   theoretical and computational support for the NOVA program are all very
   high quality. The accomplishments described above give some confidence
   that NOVA will meet its experimental goals in the next 3 to 4 years if
   an additional $25 M per year is devoted to NOVA experiments and
   operations. These goals include the HEP program, which should produce
   implosions with mix growth factors, convergence, and hotspot and pusher
   compressions in excess of what is now thought to be necessary for high
   gain targets. Further investigations of holhraum physics (the HLP
   program) are also needed and planned, although it may be more difficult
   to establish equivalence in this area. The following sections define
   our expectations for the progress of the LLNL program during the next 4
   years. We estimate a budget of $95 M annually to accomplish the
   objectives set forth. As discussed in Recommendation 1, a large part of
   these funds would be assigned to the proposed national ignition
   demonstration. VII.la. Target physics LLNL has proposed a campaign of 3
   to 4 years to support current predictions of ignition and modest (5-10)
   gain for driver energies of 1 to 2 MJ. We concur with the milestones
   proposed by LLNL, which are elaborated in Appendices I and II. They
   include the following: . Targets with a linear convergence ratio up to
   30, mix growth factors from 20 to 1000, fuel densities greater than 40
   gm/cm', and corresponding pusher compressions. . Attainment of these
   objectives depends on developing "Precision NOVA," characterized by 5
   percent beam power balance in blue light, IO-mrad targeting accuracy,
   and 40: 1 pulse shaping. Further, an impressive set of diagnostics (4-p
   18 ICF Review neutron imaging, neutron time-of-flight adequate for 1-p
   resolution, 30- picosecond x-ray framing, 5-picosecond x-ray streak,
   and lo- to 20-picosecond x-ray) will be needed to successfully diagnose
   these extreme conditions. . Issues of plasma stability and hohlraum
   robustness are more difficult to characterize by quantitative
   milestones. Separate campaigns involving single- beam experiments at
   relevant intensities and plasma scale lengths will be performed, and
   the effects of SSD smoothing will be characterized. Studies of plasma
   behavior in the hohlraum will require extensive simulation to
   extrapolate convincingly to the ignition demonstration. VII.1 b.
   Advanced drivers LLNL has proposed to construct a 30 cm x 30 cm
   beamlet, the basic architectural element of the proposed NOVA Upgrade,
   which will test the new multipass concept. We view this as essential to
   approval of full construction. It would be even more satisfactory if a
   full 4 x 4 beamline could be constructed for an additional $30 M, but
   we don't view this as essential. VII.2 Los Alamos National Laboratory
   Our perspective on the role of LANL in the national ICF Program has
   changed greatly as a result of the proposed ignition demonstration and
   our closer scrutiny of AURORA's capabilities. In our Interim Report, we
   made the following observations and recommendations concerning the LANL
   program: The first KrF laser operated approximately one decade after
   the first glass laser. Development of KrF lasers for ICF was initiated
   considerably later and has received considerably less total funding
   than the glass laser program. Conse- quently, the LANL ICF program lags
   the LLNL program. Additional funding in FY89 allowed the AURORA
   facility to make impressive strides and 100 TW/cm' have been achieved
   on target. As of December 4, 1989, AURORA was putting 1.3 kJ in 36
   beams on target, with spot sizes smaller than 400 p, pulse widths
   ranging from 3 to 7 nanoseconds, and peak irradiance larger that 200
   TW/cm'. Many advantages have been claimed for KrF lasers over glass
   lasers for 1CF:greater electrical efficiency, wider bandwidth, shorter
   wavelength (which couples energy to the capsule more efficiently), and
   superior pulse shaping capability. To evaluate these claims, in the
   next 12 months AURORA should be made fully operational at the original
   specifications, operate reliably, (2 to 3 kJ to target, 5 shots per
   week) and achieve smaller focus. Also of high priority is an upgrade of
   the Intermediate Amplifier, an upgrade of the window for admitting
   electrons to the Large Amplifier, and a modified front end for pulse
   shaping and increased bandwidth. It is also important to initiate work
   on target diagnostics and a backlighter, taking advantage of techniques
   and instrumentation developed at other ICF laboratories. Important
   improvements to AURORA that may take up to two years are to increase
   the energy on target to 10 by optics changes and to 20 kJ ICF Review 19
   to target with the bandwidth increased to 300 cm-`, so that a full
   implosion campaign can be undertaken. Important experiments to carry
   out with AURORA are a study of unstable hydrodynamics in a planar
   system using a variety of temporal pulse shapes and with varying beam
   smoothing techniques. AURORA can also test important questions in
   hohlraum and plasma physics (especially filamentation) including long
   scale lengths, long pulse lengths and various degrees of spatial beam
   smoothing. The effect of modest bandwidth can also be tested. With the
   steps we have outlined above, AURORA will become an excellent implosion
   facility to test the capabilities of KrF lasers for ICF research and
   also to test many essential aspects of KrF laser design. Comparison
   with NOVA (perhaps through a coordinated set of comparable experiments)
   could yield valuable insights on the relative ease and importance of
   smoothing, bandwidth enhancement, and pulse shaping in glass and KrF
   lasers. We urge that LANL weapons and ICF personnel make greater use of
   the NOVA facility. NOVA's growing relevance for the weapons program
   should not be limited to LLNL. LANL experiments on NOVA can help in
   achieving a convergence of understanding between the two laboratories,
   as well as benefit the LANL weapons effort and the AURORA experimental
   program we have recom- mended. It now appears that it would be too
   difficult and expensive to activate the additional 48 beams and enable
   a full implosion program to be implemented. Moreover, the AURORA laser
   cannot be used to prove that the NOVA Upgrade laser will succeed in
   reaching the goal of ignition in an x-ray driven hohlraum target. The
   inverse question, "Can it be used to show significant areas of risk?"
   has been examined by both LLNL and LANL at our request. Informal
   reports from both laboratories pinpoint three areas of interest:
   laser-plasma coupling, x-ray conversion efficiency, and hydrodynamic or
   other hohlraum stability issues. Although there are physics experiments
   that could be done with AURORA, the low peak power limits the
   achievable radiation temperatures to less than one-half of those
   already realized on NOVA; the resulting ablation pressures would be
   smaller by a much larger factor. Additional limitations of AURORA
   include the relatively large spot sizes (0.5 mm or greater) and the
   restriction to single-sided illumination. The proposed NOVA Upgrade
   would operate at 0.35 p while KrF lasers operate at 0.25 p. It is
   probable that the shorter wavelength light would be more effective in
   desirable laser coupling to the plasma, but the parameter range in
   which AURORA could examine this issue has already been surpassed
   significantly by NOVA with only very small SRS being observed.
   Similarly, experiments at NOVA have measured x-ray conversion
   efficiency under conditions that surpass what would be possible at
   AURORA. Also, earlier Novette experiments at 4w demonstrated high x-ray
   conversion efficiency at much higher intensities than are possible with
   AURORA. The single-sided illumination geometry of AURORA limits most
   types of hohlraum experiments. There are some experiments that could be
   done with parameters relevant to the long "foot" on the leading edge of
   a high-intensity pulse. Because the NOVA Upgrade would use fewer beams
   in this part of the pulse, it is important to examine stability and
   conversion issues here as well. We note that the LLNL Target Technical
   Contract (Appendix I) outlines an experimental campaign that will
   examine conditions relevant to this part of the pulse. Given this
   perspective, and the fact that AURORA has just begun doing laser and
   target experiments, the best course for AURORA appears to be a program
   that would define some of the practical requirements for large KrF
   drivers, as well as some comparisons with glass laser 20 ICF Review
   experiments. The effects of bandwidth, pulse shaping, and smoothing
   could also be investigated. While this AURORA program would be a
   significant contribution to the ICF program and very desirable to carry
   out if funding could be found, we now recognize that funding
   limitations may well severely curtail the development and use of the
   AURORA facility if the priorities of our recommendations are followed.
   Of course, we envision that LANL will become a major participant in the
   ignition demonstration program outlined in Recommen- dation 1. VII.3
   Sandia National Laboratories The rate of progress in the light-ion
   pulsed power program has been impressive during the past three years.
   Initially, the overall progress was slower than expected immediately
   following the Happer report. However, in mid-1987 the experiment rate
   in PBFA-II increased to about one shot per day. Although beam
   divergence was initially larger than anticipated, protons were
   successfully focussed to 5 TW/cm* by April 1989. In parallel with beam
   focusing experiments, there have been several advances in the
   development of lithium ion sources and improved plasma opening switch
   configurations. It is the committee's assessment that the SNL staff is
   of very high quality and is a world leader in the areas of advanced
   pulsed power engineering and technology development. The laboratory is
   commended for establishing a high-calibre scientific team that
   integrates experiment, theory, and engineering design in the PBFA-II
   program. The light-ion effort at SNL is augmented by excellent related
   programs in experiment, theory, and system studies at Cornell
   University, NRL, and the University of Wisconsin. There has been a long
   and concentrated development program for lithium ion sources with the
   laser evaporation source (LEVIS) and LiF sources emerging as the most
   promising candidates in mid-1990. Other sources, such as the boil-off
   lithium vapor source/laser ionization based on resonance saturation
   (BOLVAPS/LIBORS) source and the electrohydrody- namic ion source are
   also being investigated for high-repetition rate applications, although
   such a capability is not needed for an ignition experiment or LMF. The
   advances in pulsed power technology since the Happer report have been
   outstanding. The development of HERMES-III (which was completed under
   budget and ahead of schedule) at 20 MV has demonstrated that a ramped
   voltage can be used for beam bunching on a 40 nanosecond time scale.
   The low cost of this technology for an LMF could reduce the driver cost
   relative to a laser driver, if the beam focusing problems can be
   solved. At the time of our Interim Report, we established a series of
   milestones for the light ion program to pass by the end of summer 1990.
   The scientists at SNL met or exceeded four of the five milestones
   (PBFA-II operating at 10 MV, 3 MA, producing a lithium ion beam of at
   least 75 percent purity at an ion production efficiency of 80 percent).
   SNL did not meet the milestone of 14-mrad divergence for the lithium
   beam (best value was 23+2 mrad), although they did develop an
   impressive array of diagnostics and analytical and numerical models
   that identify the likely collective instability mechanism and possible
   ways to reduce the beam divergence. Detailed milestones should be
   established for the next two years of the PBFA-II program, and
   technical progress should be monitored closely. Major emphasis should
   be placed on reducing ion beam divergence and increasing power
   concentrations to acceptable levels. In addition, it is imperative that
   well-diagnosed ion target and hohlraum characterization experiments be
   carried out. The committee strongly recommends that SNL draw on the
   expertise of other laboratories in developing advanced target designs
   with internal pulse shaping. ICF Review 21 VII.4 Naval Research
   Laboratory There is a relatively small but innovative part of the ICF
   Program at the NRL. NRL is a proponent of direct-drive. It has been a
   pioneer in experimental and theoretical studies of Rayleigh-Taylor
   instabilities, and has provided much of our understanding of how
   ablation suppresses the potentially fatal growth of these instabilities
   and makes it possible to contemplate direct-drive targets. The NRL
   group was also the first to demonstrate the value of induced spatial
   and temporal incoherence for ICF lasers. One of their concepts,
   echelon-free TSI, will work particularly well with the large bandwidths
   of KrF lasers. This concept, together with the favorable short
   wavelength of a KrF laser, led NRL to begin construction of the NIKE
   laser. Cooperation between the NRL and LANL laser groups will help to
   ensure that KrF lasers for ICF applications are developed in a sensible
   way. An acceleration of the NIKE construction schedule is appropriate
   to more rapidly explore the potential of KrF lasers; periodic reviews
   of the construction progress by a competent oversight group are
   recommended. Experiments with the NIKE laser can address important
   physics issues of nuclear weapons, for example, growth rates of
   Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities. Like the LLE, NRL has provided informed
   and constructive criticism of the larger ICF efforts at the national
   laboratories. VII.5 Laboratory for Laser Energetics There have been a
   number of significant accomplishments by the LLE at the University of
   Rochester since the Happer report. Among them are the following: .
   Development of smoothing by spectral dispersion (SSD), which reduced
   the overall rms inhomogeneity of illumination from 27 percent to 4.6
   percent. . Improvement in the power balance of the 24 beams of OMEGA to
   I to 3 percent, routinely. . Implosions of cryogenic targets on the
   OMEGA laser to compressions 100 to 300 times liquid hydrogen density. .
   Implosions of gas-filled capsules in good agreement with
   one-dimensional calculations over much of the implosion (up to
   convergence ratios of about 25). . Development of a variety of liquid
   crystal systems, including polarizers (incorporated into OMEGA
   beginning in 1986), apodizers, and polymer systems. Other outstanding
   technical achievements are an ion-assisted deposition technique for
   coatings, high-damage-threshold thin film linear polarizers, and a
   thermal conductivity technique for measuring thin films. . Development
   of a broad array of x-ray diagnostic capabilities. . Development of
   techniques for coating selected KMS microspheres with high-quality
   ablation and metal layers, as well as x-ray and interferometric
   techniques for characterizing capsules. 22 ICF Review . Design of the
   baseline configuration of an upgraded OMEGA system that will provide 30
   kJ of blue light in 60 beams. This is an impressive list of solid
   accomplishments in a focused program exploring direct-drive ICF. In
   addition, LLE has continued to be a valuable source of graduate
   students trained in ICF physics and laser technology. During the next
   five years, we expect that the LLE will continue this track record as
   follows: . Exploring and developing improved SSD as needed. . Pursuing
   further the understanding of the importance of bandwidth in judging the
   relative merits of various laser drivers. . Continuing OMEGA
   experiments to better understand the discrepancies between measurements
   and calculated one-dimensional performance. . Intensifying efforts to
   improve capsule fabrication capability,with special emphasis on using
   advances from the international ICF community. . Constructing the
   upgraded version of the OMEGA laser with a flexible configuration in
   anticipation of experiments that speak to varied and sometimes
   unexpected capsule physics issues, in particular, exploring the
   possibility of operation with green light and alternate smoothing
   schemes. The OMEGA and NOVA Upgrades have some technological aspects in
   common, so that rapid completion of the former would be beneficial to
   the latter. . Initiating hydrodynamically equivalent and ignition
   scaling experiments on the upgraded OMEGA system, with results bearing
   on the possibility of configuring the NOVA Upgrade target chamber for
   direct drive. VII.6 KMS Fusion, Inc. In the course of the ICF Program,
   KMS has developed a capability to routinely supply ICF laboratories
   with quantities of glass microspheres from which to select subsets of
   capsules with those properties (e.g., sphericity, and uniformity of
   thickness and of density) that are required for various experiments.
   They have also developed the beta-layering technique for cryogenic
   targets, which is likely to be of great importance for LMF-scale
   targets. The ICF Program's current capsule fabrication capability and a
   continued effort to invent and implement advanced fabrication
   techniques are of significant value to the ICF Program and continued
   support for these activities is mandatory. It is our understanding that
   KMS now operates under a 3-year DOE contract and that DOE has reopened
   competition for that contract. In the near future, the need for great
   flexibility in capsule design will require even greater imagination and
   skill in capsule fabrication. During the next 5 years, we expect that
   the ICF Program will do the following: . Develop the capability to make
   plastic shells with the required accuracies for the (ever-changing)
   requirements of capsule design. ICF Review 23 . Develop and/or refine
   coating and layering techniques so that both room temperature and
   cryogenic capsules of sophisticated design and adequate uniformity can
   be produced. . Acquire an awareness of those target fabrication
   techniques that are being developed throughout the international ICF
   community and adopt or adapt those relevant to the needs of the U.S.
   ICF Program. VII.7 Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory For more than 10 years
   LBL has been a significant participant in efforts to understand and
   develop systems for commercial ICF energy production using a heavy-ion
   driver. Most recently, LBL has served as the focal point for these
   efforts with continuing interest from LLNL and to some extent from
   LANL, Standard Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC), and the University of
   Wisconsin. Currently, funding support for the program is provided by
   the office of Basic Energy Sciences (BES) within Energy Research. Since
   1985 considerable progress has been made. Demonstrations of sources of
   heavy ions, transport of multiple, space charge dominated beams, and
   current multiplication by shaped acceleration (all with very small
   brightness dilution) have been carried out, albeit at low-beam current.
   A multiple beam source and injector that could serve as a model for a
   HIF driver is also well along in development. In 1987, the Heavy Ion
   Fusion Systems Assessment (HIFSA) study was published. Led by LANL,
   with significant participation from LBL, LLNL, McDonnell Douglas, the
   University of Wisconsin, SNL, and SLAC, the study showed that, given
   the anticipated fusion target performance, the linear induction
   accelerator is a prime candidate for an energy production driver. The
   U.S. program is investigating the induction linear accelerator as a
   heavy-ion driver and there is some work in the USSR using this
   approach; there is substantial work in Germany on the RF linac driver
   option. Achievements in heavy-ion fusion (HIF) at LBL are significant,
   particularly in light of the rather modest resources that have been
   invested to date. However, important issues in beam transport and
   stability, as well as essential component development, need to be
   addressed before the apparent superiority of the induction linac driver
   is confirmed. Some of these can be addressed at modest current in the
   LBL-proposed Induction Linac Systems Experiment (ILSE), or a variant of
   it. High current beam stability under acceleration and transport can be
   dealt with preliminarily using available simulation codes, supplemented
   by three-dimensional field codes that can account for the
   time-dependent fields in the full electromagnetic environment of the
   beam, including focusing and acceleration apparatus. Support for such a
   development program, with its mission, goals, and schedules, is
   unlikely to come through BES; both the size and the nature of the
   program are inapropriate to BES's role of supporting small research
   groups and user facilities. A more appropriate point of attachment in
   DOE would be a new Division of Inertial Fusion Energy within the Office
   of Fusion Energy. Appropriate milestones during the next several years
   would be as follows: . Completion of the Multiple Beam Experiments with
   4 beams (MBE-4). . Completion of the 2-MV, 16-beam injector. 24 ICF
   Review . With high priority, formulation and completion of a simulation
   campaign, perhaps in conjunction with others, to evaluate the whole of
   the heavy-ion driver beam behavior, particularly dynamic space charge
   effects. . Formation of an institutional collaboration to propose a
   follow-on experimental campaign in light of the three efforts above.
   This should envision the eventual transfer of the center of
   larger-scale experimental activity to a more appropriate physical and
   institutional environment. . Reviews of the proposals for this
   collaborative experimental campaign by independent panels of
   accelerator and fusion experts. Relevant and complementary research on
   heavy-ion drivers is also being carried out in Europe, where programs
   are developing rapidly. Soon to be in operation in Germany is a major
   new facility for heavy ion research, SIS/ESR. Experiments using this
   facility, though not fully duplicating conditions in the United States,
   will provide valuable information on the conversion efficiency as a
   function of beam intensity and other parameters; they will also be
   relevant to determining target conditions. Other programs being
   discussed in Europe may result in a renewed heavy-ion driver
   development effort there. It will be important for U.S. workers in
   heavy ions to continue to be well informed of these efforts and, in
   some cases, to collaborate on them. ICF Review 25 VIII. BUDGET
   CONSIDERATIONS Table 1 shows the recent funding history of the Office
   of Defense Program's ICF Program. Actual funding has fallen short of
   the Happer report's recommendation of constant funding at the FY85
   level (after correction for inflation). TABLE 1 ICF Program Operating
   Funds ($M) Happer Report Recommendation Actual Shortfall Integral
   Shortfall FY85 154.8 154.8 0 0 FY86 156.1 137.9 18.2 18.2 FY87 157.3
   142.7 14.6 32.8 FY88 165.2 151.0 14.2 47.0 FY89 173.5 155.5 18.0 65.0
   FY90 187.1 160.6 26.5 91.5 The integral shortfall through FY90 is about
   $91.5 M, or an average of about $18 M per year, about 12 percent of the
   program. This underfunding has contributed to the program's failure to
   progress as rapidly as envisioned in 1986. 26 ICF Review Table 2 shows
   the FY90 ICF operating budget for each of the laboratories. TABLE 2
   FY90 Laboratories' ICF Operating Budgets ($M) LLNL 61.434 LANL 3 1.045
   SNL 27.376 KMSF 17.040 LLE 11.032 NRL 4.753 Other (DOE HQ) 1.937 Total
   160.6 Recommendation 1 should allow the ICF Program to make orderly
   progress toward a decision on the ignition demonstration facility at a
   rate commensurate with time required to resolve the issues remaining
   before a final commitment is made. Implementing Recommen- dation 1
   would require increased funding over present levels, or reductions in
   other components of the ICF Program. To implement the program of
   Recommendation 1, we estimate the following additional costs (averaged
   over a 4-year period): . Precision NOVA Upgrade and experimental
   program, $25 M/year . OMEGA Upgrade, $15 M/year We also recommend a
   small additional expenditure of $2 M/year to complete the NIKE laser on
   an accelerated schedule (Recommendation 2). These additional costs are
   partially offset by an estimated $20 M/year from termination of the
   Halite/Centurion program. We estimate that ICF Review 27 the net result
   of these changes, using 1990 figures for the ICF operating budget,
   would be about $18 1 M, somewhat short of the level recommended by the
   Happer report which would be about $187 M for that year. This budget
   would permit continuation of the SNL light-ion program at a constant
   level of funding, as well as the ICF Program at LANL. The precise
   funding required for the latter will depend on the details of the
   redirecting of the LANL effort discussed in our Recommen- dation 4.
   Some additional funding would be needed to support a final commitment
   to proceed with the ignition demonstration facility (NOVA Upgrade).
   Based on a construction start in FY94, $10 M to $15 M of funding would
   be required in FY92 to demonstrate a prototype laser beamlet, and $9 M
   for final design and other preconstruction activities. Table 3 shows
   the recent history of DOE funding of heavy-ion drivers. Implementation
   of Recommendation 7 concerning heavy-ion driver research would require
   increasing the current level of support to $15 M to $20 M/year. TABLE 3
   OER Funding of HIF Research ($M) FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 5.1 5.6 6.0
   6.0 6.3 28 ICF Review Appendix I Target Physics Technical Contract This
   appendix includes unclassified excerpts from the Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory (LLNL) technical contract specifying the target
   physics milestones to be passed in preparation for an ignition
   demonstration through the NOVA Upgrade. Complete classified or
   unclassified versions of the full document can be obtained from LLNL.'
   Introduction The target physics program has two principal elements: (1)
   hohlraum/plasma physics, which addresses driver-plasma coupling,
   generation and transport of x-rays, and the development of energy
   efficient (i.e., coupling of the driver energy to the capsule)
   hohlraums, which provide the appropriate x-ray drive (spectral,
   temporal, and spatial) to a high- performance capsule; and, (2)
   hydrodynamically equivalent physics (HEP) program which, addresses the
   capsule physics associated with ignition and gain. Elements of this
   program include hydrodynamic stability, the effects of drive
   non-uniformity on capsule performance, and the physics associated with
   ignition (energy gain/loss to the fuel) in the absence of alpha
   deposition. While the demonstration of specific milestones is an
   important aspect of these efforts, the emphasis of the target physics
   program is to demonstrate and refine our ability to model/predict
   target performance, particularly those aspects which scale to and
   influence ignition and gain. The Program is thus directed towards
   instilling confidence in the successful outcome of ICF and of
   specifying the performance and characteristics of both the driver and
   targets required to achieve the objectives. We expect to undertake and
   complete the program described below in 2-3 years, depending upon the
   funding level available. Hohlraum/Plasma Physics (HLP) An extensive
   experimental and modeling hohlraum physics effort has been under way at
   LLNL for over a decade. In particular, substantial progress has been
   made in the past several years on NOVA. As a result, the NOVA Upgrade
   hohlraums are in many aspects, an extension of the ongoing experiments.
   For example, the ignition/moderate gain hohlraums are typically only
   several times larger than that of the nominal NOVA targets. Present
   calculations give performance specifications for the NOVA Upgrade
   hohlraums, including: 1. Drive conditions that generate the necessary
   ablation pressure to implode capsules. 2. Adequate time average drive
   uniformity in energy efficient hohlraums. 3. Acceptable hot electron
   production. The exact levels are dependent on the target. `The document
   numbers are UCRL-TB-104287 and UCRL-TB-104288 for unclassified Parts I
   and II. ICF Review 29 4. The amount of scattered light from Stimulated
   Brillouin and Raman Scattering. The exact values depend primarily on
   the influence of this scattering on drive symmetry control. The
   objectives of the NOVA experiments are to experimentally demonstrate
   and predictively model hohlraum performance in properly scaled targets
   consistent with NOVA's performance limitations and to further develop
   our understanding (experimental and theoretical) of laser-plasma
   interaction physics in the plasmas associated with hohlraums. Where
   appropriate, the hohlraums will also contain capsules to better
   simulate the NOVA Upgrade targets. The hohlraum/plasma physics program
   will also continue to explore, within the capabilities of NOVA, the
   limits of achievable peak temperature in laser driven hohlraums. While
   specific objectives will not presently be assigned to this task, these
   experiments will help define the "operating experimental parameters" of
   the NOVA Upgrade. Specific milestones and objectives of the
   Hohlraum/Plasma Physics Program are the following: (HLPl) Demonstrate
   acceptable hohlraum-plasma coupling and gross hohlraum energetics with
   targets (properly scaled from NOVA Upgrade designs) with temporally
   shaped pulses. The goals and objectives for HLPI are: Acceptable
   hohlraum coupling, with specified values of: . Absorption fraction .
   Stimulated Brillouin fraction . Stimulated Raman fraction . Hot
   electron fraction (HLP2) Demonstration of acceptable hohlraum-plasma
   coupling with peak equivalent radiation temperature appropriate for the
   NOVA Upgrade. As the power (40 TW) of NOVA limits the target scale and
   pulse duration for these high temperatures, specified laser pulse
   formats and appropriately scaled pulses (i.e., shorter overall pulses
   or more limited shaped pulses compared to those utilized in HLPl) will
   be used. The goals and objectives for HLP2 are specified values of: .
   Absorption fraction . Stimulated Brillouin fraction . Stimulated Raman
   fraction . Hot electron fraction 30 ICF Review All of these values are
   to have a peak hohlraum temperature appropriate for the NOVA Upgrade.
   (HLP3) Hohlraum experiments with a range of temperatures obtained with
   a variety of pulse formats and targets. Hohlraums up to ignition scale,
   albeit at lower temperature and shorter pulse duration, will be
   examined. Measurements will focus on the x-ray environment within the
   hohlraum. This task will also include characterization of x-ray and
   laser driven ablation plasmas. The goals and objectives for HLP3 are: .
   Confirmation of our ability to calculate energy balance in a hohlraum
   and to model the details of the plasma within the hohlraum. (HLP4)
   Demonstration of symmetry control with advanced hohlraums. Experiments
   will utilize a variety of x-ray imaging techniques to measure
   time-integrated x-ray drive asymmetry in low order 1 modes. Supporting
   experiments will also be conducted. The goals and objectives for HLP4
   are: . Specified low order l-mode asymmetry in an advanced hohlraum
   with pulse shaping properly scaled to ignition targets. Peak radiation
   tempera- tures will be consistent with NOVA's power and focusing
   capabilities. The achievable flux uniformity is limited by the limited
   number of NOVA's beams (10) and potentially by the individual beam
   quality. Experiments will also establish our understanding of time
   dependent drive asymmetry. The experiments will both achieve the stated
   level of flux uniformity with NOVA and demonstrate our quantitative
   understanding of the limitations (physics and technology) so that flux
   uniformities (both instantaneous and time integrated) required for
   ignition/moderate gain will be achieved on the NOVA Upgrade. .
   Experimental demonstration of time integrated flux asymmetry control.
   These experiments, supported by quantitative modeling, will further
   demonstrate our ability to control and achieve the flux uniformity
   required for ignition/gain targets. (HLPS) Stimulated Brillouin and
   Raman scattering in long scale-length plasmas. This task will quantify
   levels of stimulated Brillouin (back and side scatter) and Raman
   scattering (back, side, and forward) in plasmas. The present NOVA
   hohlraum experiments, in which good laser-plasma coupl
