http://www.nwifc.wa.gov/shellfish/start.htm

                     Tribal Shellfish Resource Management

   Introduction

   Shellfish have been a mainstay of western Washington’s Indian tribes
   for thousands of years. Clams, crab, oysters, shrimp, and many other
   species were readily available year ‘round. The relative ease with
   which large amounts could be harvested, cured, and stored for later
   consumption made shellfish an important source of nutrition – second
   only in importance to salmon.

   [man1.jpg] Shellfish remain important for subsistence, economic, and
   ceremonial purposes. With the rapid decline of many salmon stocks, due
   to habitat loss from western Washington’s unrelenting growth in the
   human population, shellfish harvesting has become a major factor in
   tribal economies.

   The tribes have used shellfish in trade with the non-Indian population
   since the first white settlers came into the region a century and a
   half ago. Newspaper accounts from the earliest days of the Washington
   Territory tell of Indians selling or trading fresh shellfish with
   settlers. Shellfish harvested by members of western Washington’s Indian
   tribes is highly sought after throughout the United States and the Far
   East. Tribal representatives have gone on trade missions to China and
   other Pacific Rim nations where Pacific Northwest shellfish –
   particularly geoduck – is in great demand. Trade with the Far East is
   growing in importance as the tribes struggle to achieve financial
   security through a natural resources-based economy.

   Treaty Shellfish Rights

   As with salmon, the tribes’ guarantees to harvest shellfish lie within
   a series of treaties signed with representatives of the federal
   government in the mid-1850s. Language pertaining to tribal shellfish
   harvesting included this section:

   "The right of taking fish at usual and accustomed grounds and stations
   is further secured to said Indians, in common with all citizens of the
   United States; and of erecting temporary houses for the purposes of
   curing; together with the privilege of hunting and gathering roots and
   berries on open and unclaimed lands. Provided, however, that they not
   take shell-fish from any beds staked or cultivated by citizens."

   (Treaty With the S’Klallam, Jan. 26, 1855)

   In exchange for the peaceful settlement of what is today most of
   western Washington, the tribes reserved the right to continue to
   harvest finfish and shellfish at all of their usual and accustomed
   grounds and stations. The tribes were specifically excluded from
   harvesting shellfish from areas "staked or cultivated" by non-Indian
   citizens.

   Soon after they were signed, the treaties were forgotten or ignored.
   The influx of non-Indian settlers into western Washington continued to
   grow with each passing year, and the tribes were slowly excluded from
   their traditional shellfish and finfish harvest areas.

   Tribal efforts to have the federal government’s treaty promises kept
   began in the first years of the 20^th Century when the United States
   Supreme Court ruled in U.S. v. Winans that where a treaty reserves the
   right to fish at all usual and accustomed places, a state may not
   preclude tribal access to those places.

   Sixty years later, the tribes were again preparing for battle in court.
   After many years of harassment, beatings and arrests for exercising
   their treaty-reserved rights, western Washington tribes took the State
   of Washington to federal court to have their rights legally
   re-affirmed. In 1974, U.S. District Court Judge George Boldt ruled that
   the tribes had reserved the right to half of the harvestable salmon and
   steelhead in western Washington.

   The "Boldt Decision," which was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, also
   re-established the tribes as co-managers of the salmon and steelhead
   resources in western Washington.

   As a result of this ruling, the tribes became responsible for
   establishing fishing seasons, setting harvest limits, and enforcing
   tribal fishing regulations. Professional biological staffs, enforcement
   officers, and managerial staff were assembled to ensure orderly,
   biologically-sound fisheries.

   Beginning in the late 1970s, tribal and state staff have worked
   together to develop comprehensive fisheries that ensure harvest
   opportunity for Indian and non-Indian like, and also preserve the
   resource for generations to come.

   It was within this new atmosphere of cooperative management that the
   tribes sought to restore their treaty-reserved rights to manage and
   harvest shellfish from all usual and accustomed areas. Talks with their
   state counterparts began in the mid-1980s, but were unsuccessful. The
   tribes filed suit in federal court in May 1989 to have their shellfish
   harvest rights restored.

   The filing of the lawsuit brought about years of additional
   negotiations between the tribes and the state. Despite many serious
   attempts at reaching a negotiated settlement, the issue went to trial
   in May 1994.


   The Rafeedie Decision

   Federal Circuit Court Judge Edward Rafeedie heard nearly three weeks of
   testimony from tribal elders, biologists, and treaty experts, as well
   as testimony from private property owners, non-Indian commercial
   shellfish growers, and state employees.

   [man3.jpg] Tribal elders testified in court how their parents and
   grandparents taught them to harvest clams, oysters, squid, octopus and
   barnacles from different areas. They testified of learning to dry clams
   and other seafood for later use.

   Tribal shellfish biologists and fishery managers testified about
   current harvest management activities, including all of the management
   planning that occurs prior to a shellfish harvest, as well as
   monitoring programs in place to ensure harvests are properly conducted.

   As with the court battle to have their rights to salmon restored, the
   tribes’ arguments in the shellfish trial centered around the Stevens
   Treaties – specifically what the treaty language meant at the time.

   Rafeedie’s decision, which came on Dec. 20 1994, ruled strongly in
   favor of the tribes. As with the Boldt Decision of two decades earlier,
   Rafeedie ruled that the treaties’ "in common" language meant that the
   tribes had reserved harvest rights. In this instance, the tribes
   reserved the right to harvest up to half of all shellfish from all of
   their usual and accustomed places, except those areas "staked or
   cultivated" by citizens.

   "¼In interpreting the shellfish proviso, the court must focus on what
   the Indians intended: The record unequivocally reflects the Indians’
   insistence on reserving the right to fish as they always had, and the
   record is devoid of any objections or concern over their exclusion from
   ancient fisheries," Rafeedie wrote in his decision.

   "A treaty is not a grant of rights to the Indians, but a grant of
   rights from them" to white settlers, he wrote. Noting the "paternal
   pose" federal treaty negotiators took with the tribes, Judge Rafeedie
   wrote in his decision that the United States promised the tribes would
   have a permanent right to fish as they always had.

   "This right was promised as a sacred entitlement, one which the United
   States had a moral obligation to protect. The court may not rewrite the
   treaties or interpret the treaties in a way contrary to settled law
   simply to avoid or minimize hardship to the public or to the
   intervenors (private property owners and commercial shellfish
   growers)," Rafeedie wrote.

   Rafeedie ruled that all public and private tidelands within the case
   area are subject to treaty harvest, except for shellfish contained in
   artificially-created beds. Rafeedie’s decision requires harvesting
   tribes to follow several time, place, and manner of harvest
   restrictions.

   For example, accurate shellfish surveys must first be conducted, and
   the tribes must inform private property owners of their intent to
   harvest well in advance. Harvesting can occur no more than five days
   per year on any given private beach with less than 200 feet of
   shoreline. Also, tribal shellfish harvesters can cross privately-owned
   uplands to reach shellfish areas, but only if no water or public upland
   access is available.

   The court’s ruling covers 15 tribes: Jamestown S’Klallam, Lower Elwha
   Klallam, Lummi, Makah, Muckleshoot, Nisqually, Nooksack, Port Gamble
   S’Klallam, Puyallup, Skokomish, Squaxin Island, Suquamish, Swinomish,
   Tulalip, and Upper Skagit.

   Rafeedie’s ruling also included a detailed implementation plan that
   included a dispute resolution process.

   The Appeals Process

   Attorneys for the tribes, the United States, the State of Washington,
   commercial shellfish growers and private property owners all presented
   arguments to the U.S. Court of Appeals in May, 1997.

   The tribes and United States argued that Rafeedie’s limitations to
   accessing private tidelands for harvest, along with his definition of
   cultivated shellfish beds, were too restrictive and denied the tribes
   the ability to exercise their treaty-reserved rights on too many
   beaches.

   The tribes also argued that Judge Rafeedie’s requirement that the
   tribes primarily use water access to reach harvest sites on private
   tidelands would jeopardize the safety of tribal harvesters.

   The state, in an attempt to monopolize the lucrative deepwater
   shellfish market, argued that the tribes have the right to harvest only
   those species they harvested at treaty time, and at specific places.
   Commercial shellfish growers argued that any shellfish bed, whether a
   naturally occurring bed or not, was "staked or cultivated" if a grower
   did anything to improve the bed or simply marked the bed’s boundaries
   with stakes, rendering them off-limits to tribal harvesting.

   On Jan. 28, 1998 the court unanimously upheld Rafeedie’s decision that
   restored the tribes’ treaty rights, re-stating that the tribes have
   rights to harvest 50 percent of deepwater and free-swimming species,
   plus a 50 percent share of all shellfish on unleased state tidelands,
   regardless of whether the beds were created or enhanced by the state.

   The court’s ruling also provides the tribes with access to portions of
   commercial shellfish growers’ beds. Specifically, the court said the
   tribes have a right to 50 percent of the shellfish from growers’ beds
   that would be naturally present if the growers had not done any
   enhancement. The court placed the burden of proof on the growers to
   demonstrate what percentage of shellfish on their property resulted
   from their efforts.

   The appellate panel upheld most of the time, place, and manner of
   access and harvest restrictions that Rafeedie had placed upon tribal
   harvests from private tidelands.

   The case was then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court which, on April 5,
   1999, denied a petition for rehearing the case, effectively ending the
   legal appeals process. The tribes are now exercising their treaty
   rights throughout their usual and accustomed harvest areas in a
   responsible manner. Meanwhile, discussions are continuing with
   commercial shellfish growers to develop a plan for implementing
   Rafeedie's decision on their tidelands.

   The Era Of Cooperation

   The tribes are fully involved in the management of their
   treaty-reserved shellfish resources. Tribal shellfish managers have
   developed harvest management and supplementation plans. Harvest data is
   being collected and shared with the state co-managers.

   One of the greatest positive steps in western Washington occurred this
   past summer on a small beach along Hood Canal. It is one example of how
   tribes and individual tideland owners are cooperatively implementing
   judge Rafeedie’s decision.

   In February 1997, a tidelands owner signed a shellfish management
   agreement with the Point No Point Treaty Council, a natural resources
   consortium representing the Skokomish, Port Gamble S’Klallam, Jamestown
   S’Klallam, and Lower Elwha Klallam tribes. The agreement includes
   provisions for population surveys, harvest planning and potential
   cooperative shellfish enhancement activities.

   In August 1997, several members of the Skokomish Indian Tribe harvested
   about 100 dozen oysters from the tideland owner’s property for a
   celebration honoring the tribe’s elders. The harvest was conducted
   under the supervision of the tribe’s fisheries manager and the tideland
   owner’s family. Thousands of oysters remained on the beach after the
   harvest was completed.

   The cooperative management agreement and subsequent tribal harvest are
   models of cooperation that can be emulated throughout western
   Washington. The tideland owner has lobbied neighboring beachfront
   owners to follow his lead and develop harvest management agreements
   with the tribes.

   Similar management agreements are being cooperatively developed between
   tribes and private tideland owners in other regions of western
   Washington.

   Public Health

   Shellfish growing areas are routinely surveyed for current or potential
   pollution impacts, and are classified based on the results of frequent
   survey information. No shellfish harvest is conducted on beaches that
   have not been certified by the tribes and the Washington Department of
   Health. Growing areas are regularly monitored for water quality status
   and naturally-occurring biotoxins to protect the public health

   Conclusion

   The future of western Washington’s thriving shellfish resources relies
   upon cooperative management between the tribes and their state
   counterparts. The tribes’ long-standing conservation ethic encourages
   everyone to take only what is needed, and to protect the environment so
   that all may share in this and other natural resources for generations
   to come.
