http://budget.house.gov/jimstmntcbo012302.htm

                            Press Release Banner

   House Budget Committee
       PRESS RELEASE     Contact: Brenna Hapes -- 202-226-9844
                                     Jan. 23, 2002

                   Excerpts from Prepared Opening Statement for
                                Chairman Jim Nussle
                          House Budget Committee Hearing
                  CBOs Budget and Economic Outlook: FY 2003-2012

        I want to thank Director Crippen for making available information
        about their report on the budget and economic outlook through his
        testimony before the Senate and House Budget Committees today. This
        information is being shared with the two Budget Committees more than
        one week prior to its scheduled release. I appreciate Director
        Crippen accommodating the congressional schedule.

        No one could have anticipated the year weve had since you issued
        your last report one year ago. Having said that, there are no real
        surprises here despite all of those who are running around
        Washington feigning about what happened to the budget surpluses
        projected one year ago.

        We intentionally lowered the surplus this spring to put more money
        in the hands of the American consumers. CBO Director Crippen cites
        our action as having a positive affect on the economy at a critical
        time this summer in his testimony.

        And just when we were starting to see encouraging signs in the
        economy, we were hit with the triple threat of a terrorist attack on
        our nation, a war overseas against terrorism and a worsening
        economic recession. The triple threat and the immediate response by
        Congress placed the budget into deficits in the near term. However,
        CBO projects the budget to get back on track to having large
        surpluses and paying down the national debt in a relatively short
        period of time.

        In fact, if you look at the years in which our budget is projected
        to be in deficits, most of the diminution of the surplus is a result
        of the soft economy exacerbated by the events of September 11th. For
        the current fiscal year 44% of the decline in the surplus is
        attributed to the economy, with another 28% attributed to so-called
        technical factors. In comparison, only 12% of the decline can be
        attributed to the tax legislation enacted last year.

        Our ability to get back on track quickly, as CBO is projecting, is
        hinging on two events coming to pass. First, the economy rebounds as
        CBO is forecasting. We all know that the economy drives the budget,
        not the other way around.

        Second, Congress must restrain spending. Additional discretionary
        spending approved by Congress accounts for more than 13% of the drop
        in the surplus during the years we are in deficits.

        The question is, can Washington make the tough choices necessary to
        re-prioritize spending in the aftermath of September 11 and get us
        back on track. If those tough choices are not made, we will be
        setting ourselves up to return to budgets with deficits as far as
        the eye can see. I, for one, do not consider that an option.

        That is not to say that Congress will not spend what is necessary to
        respond to the triple threats. We should and will do that.

        Therein lies the danger of overly relying on the numbers provided by
        CBO rather than using the numbers as the guideposts they are
        intended to be. The additional spending Congress will pass as a
        further response to the triple threat is just one example where we
        know these forecasts will not come to pass.

        Another shortcoming of these numbers are the assumptions used to
        project spending and tax legislation. CBO is bound by arcane score
        keeping conventions to assume that onetime spending (for example, to
        clean up the rubble in New York), continues in perpetuity. At the
        same time, CBO assumes that Congress will raise taxes when the
        provisions of the tax law enacted last year expire in 2010.

        The contradictory assumptions on revenue and spending levels
        represent just two small examples of where CBOs forecasts are likely
        to diverge from reality. Nevertheless, CBOs forecast provides a
        useful set of guideposts as Congress develops its budgetary
        blueprint for the upcoming fiscal year. And I thank Director Crippen
        for his contributions to this effort.
