http://agriculture.house.gov/amharv.htm

   [logo: Ag Committee home page link]
   America's Harvest: the work ahead
   "Our Nation owes a debt of gratitude to our farmers and ranchers for
   helping to ensure stability in our economy, for providing food products
   that amply meet all our citizens' needs, and for representing what is
   best about America.
   They show the character and values that have made this country strong,
   values of lo composite photo: American flag with American harvest ve
   and family, faith in God, and respect for nature."
   - Proclamation of President George Bush, September 17, 2001

   "Just a few days ago we gave thanks for God's bounty to America. But we
   should never forget that it takes the hard toil on the land to turn
   that bounty into the food we eat; and that we share with the world's
   hungry our bounty.
   We should never forget who does that toil. It's the American farmer and
   the American rancher".
   - President Bush, November 28, 2001 speech to Farm Journal Forum
   Washington, D.C.
   "We're a blessed nation because we can grow our own food and,
   therefore, we're secure. A nation that can feed its people is a nation
   more secure."
   - President Bush January 14, 2002 speech to farmers
   Springfield, Missouri

   It's The Farm "Security" Act of 2001
   Washington This Week
   © Copyright 2001 Progressive Farmer, Inc.
   Monday, September 18, 2001

   By Jim Phillips
   Progressive Farmer

   Folks rarely take note of the formal name of that multi-hundred page
   bundle of farm legislation that Congress passes every five years or so.
   It's simply called the Farm Bill. The 1996 Farm Bill, for example, is
   formally entitled the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of
   1996.
   What about H.R. 2646, the new Farm Bill that was supposed to hit the
   floor of the U.S. House last week? That action, previously on a fast
   track, was halted in its tracks by last Tuesday's horrific attacks on
   New York City and Washington, D.C. Its formal title is the Farm
   Security Act of 2001. That title takes on a whole new relevant meaning
   in light of the terrorist's actions.

   How significant is it that under the various farm bills of the past 60
   years -- imperfect though they may be -- that there has never been any
   disruption of the U.S. food supply? Not during the Great Depression,
   World War II, the Korean Conflict, the Vietnam War or the Gulf War.
   America has never had to worry about feeding itself. That can't be said
   about most other countries that were involved in the conflicts of the
   past century.

   We've had oil and fuel shortages. We've seen oil prices surge to
   sky-high levels overnight. We've had to ration gasoline. We've waited
   in long lines and only been able to fill-'er-up every other day. But
   America's dinner plate has always been full. We've fought wars over
   oil, but we've never had to fight a war over food.

   As the debate for the current farm bill was beginning to heat up over
   the past month there have been a significant number of articles and
   editorials in national newspapers, such as the Wall Street Journal, the
   New York Times and the Washington Post, challenging the billions of
   dollars of taxpayer support that goes toward agriculture. Yet the fact
   is that, even with the significant amount of federal support that has
   come agriculture's way the past few years, farmers and ranchers are not
   getting rich. They're just hanging on.

   This nation now faces economic disruption, a plunging stock market, the
   threat of more oil shortages, even the threat of war. Maybe now
   America's consumers and the sophisticated voices in the big city papers
   will take notice of the word "security" in the Farm Security Act of
   2001.

   There will be no food-OPEC that can blockade America as long as this
   country remembers where its ever-constant supply of food--call it food
   security--has come from. And may God bless the men and women and
   families of the "fruited plain" who produce America's "amber waves of
   grain" in times of plenty and in times of pain.
     * Our Nation's agriculture industry represents 13 percent of our
       economy
     * Agriculture employs 17 percent of the American workforce
     * 96 percent of the world's consumers live outside the United States
     * in 2002, USDA projects exports to the $57 billion -- up $3.5
       billion from the current year
     * Agriculture remains the bright spot in our balance of trade -- the
       trade surplus in agriculture goods is expected to be even higher in
       2002 -- at $18 billion
     * USDA Secretary Veneman: US agriculture is twice as dependent on
       exports than the general U.S. economy


      Search Members Schedule Subcommittees Hearings News Understanding
            Agricultural Terms Rules Oversight Plan Archives Home
