http://www.mandan.ars.usda.gov/Homeroot/Integrated.htm

                     Integrated Crop / Livestock Systems

Objectives


   [atlbull1.gif]

                  Objective 1

   Develop management systems using native rangeland, introduced perennial
   forages, and annual crops in rotation to more economically meet the
   year-round nutritional requirements of range cattle, while enhancing
   soil quality and landscape stability.
   [atlbull1.gif] Objective 2
   Determine the effect of crops, cropping systems, tillage, residue, soil
   fertility, and pest management on soil hydrology and indicators of soil
   quality.


   Need for Research


   [atlbull1.gif] Description of Problem to be Solved

      Most ranches and farms in the Northern Great Plains are managed for the
      production of livestock and various crops. The livestock component,
      typically a beef, cow-calf herd, is included to efficiently use the
      native-rangeland forage base. The more arable land is typically used to
      produce small grain crops, such as wheat and barley. After decades of
      such use, millions of acres of grazing and croplands in the region are
      degraded or producing below their economic potential, causing more
      difficult management decisions. Managers of integrated farm/ranch
      operations must also consider escalating production costs for their
      forage, crop, and livestock operations.

      A multidisciplinary research program is therefore being proposed that
      will result in the development and testing of integrated forage, crop,
      and livestock production systems that are economically feasible and
      environmentally sustainable. Products from this research will provide
      knowledge for farm/ranch operators to enhance the economic viability
      and quality of rural life in the Northern Great Plains region.

      More efficient forage-based livestock management systems are necessary
      in the Great Plains because of the interaction between the high cost of
      inputs required to maintain a livestock operation, unpredictable market
      price fluctuations, and weather uncertainties. The goal of this
      integrated research program will be to develop more profitable and
      sustainable integrated forage, crop, and livestock systems.

   [atlbull1.gif]  Relevance to ARS Program Objective and Priorities

      The goals for this program include the development of production
      systems to improve the sustainability and profitability of integrated
      production systems that incorporate forage, crop, and livestock
      components. The work conducted at the laboratory specifically relates
      to the agency mission (based on the current ARS Strategic Plan, 1997)
      by fulfilling needs for the strategies presented in the following
      table.

   Description

   NGPRL Contribution

   Natural resource quality Develop concepts and on-farm agricultural
   technologies and practices to assess, predict, and improve soil and
   water quality.
   Global change Increase understanding of the response of crop- and
   rangeland ecosystems to man-induced and natural changes in the global
   environment.
   Cropland and grazingland sustainability Develop cropland and
   grazingland-management production systems that improve quality and
   sustainability of food and fiber products.
   Economic and environmental risks Reduce economic and environmental
   risks through improved management of agricultural production systems.
   Weather and environmental risks Develop concepts and technologies for
   predicting and reducing the socio-economic costs and resource damages
   associated with extreme weather variability.
   Integrated agricultural production systems Develop knowledge and
   integrated technologies for promoting use of environmental sustainable
   agricultural production systems.
   Rural development opportunities Develop farming systems tailored to
   diverse agricultural production enterprises to enhance profits,
   sustainability, and environmental quality.
   Information access and delivery Provide improved access to and
   dissemination of information to increase public knowledge and awareness
   of agricultural research, to aid technology transfer, and to speed up
   sharing of new knowledge.



   [atlbull1.gif] Current Technology Related to Stated Objectives

   The NGPRL has sufficient laboratory, greenhouse, growth chamber, and
   field facilities to adequately address the objectives of this research.
   Computer facilities are also adequate and several staff members have
   expertise to exploit this capability. Cooperative efforts will be
   maintained with other ARS units and university personnel for
   accomplishing any research in which expertise is lacking.

   [atlbull1.gif] Potential Benefits from Achieving Objectives

   Completion of these research objectives will result in the conservation
   and efficient use of our natural resources-soil, plant, water, and the
   environment.  The nation's food supply depends on the sustainability of
   this natural resource base. Credibility is added to this program by
   conducting research under natural field conditions. This type of
   research must be conducted on site because of the need to understand
   the complex soil-plant-water-climate interactions controlling
   production agriculture. Production-oriented research of this type is
   fully beneficial to society as a whole since the sustainability of food
   production potential is directly related to our nation's health.

   In addition, improved perennial forage cultivars help to provide a
   stable forage base for the region and increase opportunities for
   integrated forage-crop-livestock production systems. Native grasslands
   alone do not meet the requirements for forage in the Northern Great
   Plains, especially during periods of drought. Use of improved perennial
   forages complements native grasslands and annual crop production in
   integrated forage-crop-livestock production systems. These integrated
   production systems use and protect plant-soil-water resources and
   promote an economically sound, environmentally sustainable agriculture,
   which in turn enhances the public good of the U.S.  Some important
   considerations concerning the Northern Great Plains Research Laboratory
   include:

   [atlbull1.gif] Research at the laboratory results in the development of
   practices to reduce the use of pesticides through proper crop rotation
   and crop sequences that in turn contribute to a safe and bountiful food
   supply.
   [atlbull1.gif] The laboratory conducts long-term research to preserve
   and improve air, soil, and water quality. Conservation research at the
   lab results in methods for conserving moisture and reducing runoff and
   erosion by managing crop residues thereby preserving soil and water
   resources for future generations.
   [atlbull1.gif] Research improves the economy of the region by
   increasing net family-farm income. The emphasis of the current Farm
   Bill is to remove crop support payments, the "safety net", that has
   been an insurance policy for the economic sustainability of the family
   farm. The family farmer more that ever needs agriculture research to
   operate in this high technology "free to farm" environment.
   [atlbull1.gif] Wildlife habitat is enhanced through the implementation
   of conservation tillage farming practices, crop rotations, improved
   perennial forages, grazing systems, and shelterbelts developed at the
   laboratory.
   [atlbull1.gif] New techniques and practices are developed, studied, and
   evaluated at the laboratory to determine if they are economically and
   environmentally feasible for use by its customers. The laboratory works
   closely with federal, state, and private groups to disseminate and
   transfer research information to our customers and the public.

   [atlbull1.gif] Expected Users of the Research

   The Northern Great Plains is one of the most rural regions of the
   United States.  It is an agriculturally rich area and a leading
   producer of wheat, sunflowers, oats, barley, flax, canola, sugarbeets,
   and cattle. The current Farm Bill emphasis is to remove crop support
   payments, the "safety net", that has been an insurance policy for the
   economic sustainability of the family farm. The family farmer more than
   ever needs agricultural research to operate in this high technology
   "free to farm" environment. The NGPRL has long been a very creditable
   source of this information to farmers and ranchers in the region.

   The NGPRL is a partner in the agriculture community of the Northern
   Great Plains and the only member of the agriculture community
   (machinery dealers, fertilizer dealers, seed suppliers, chemical
   suppliers and applicators, and others) providing creditable long-term
   information needed to sustain family farmers. The NGPRL works closely
   with agricultural organizations such as the North Dakota Stockmen and
   North Dakota Association of Soil Conservation Districts. Commodity
   groups include the National Sunflower Association, North Dakota Grain
   Growers Association, and North Dakota Barley Council, as well as
   environmental organizations, such as Ducks Unlimited.

   The livestock industry in the Northern Great Plains consists primarily
   of beef, cow-calf operations. Forages supply nearly all of the
   nutritive requirements of these beef herds. Aside from helping to
   provide a consistent and economical supply of high quality forage for
   the beef industry, improved perennial forage cultivars are important in
   providing management options that enhance wildlife habitat and maintain
   the health of lands with high erosion potential. The CRP and other
   conservation efforts in the region rely heavily on improved forage
   cultivars. Thus, while our primary customers in the Northern Great
   Plains are farmers and ranchers, the research also extends to
   conservation and wildlife programs and enhances the economic well being
   of the region.

   The NGPRL conducts research on agricultural problems to meet the needs
   of our customers. Customer affiliations have been formed with the
   following groups:


   [atlbull1.gif] Farmers and Ranchers

   [atlbull1.gif] Area IV Soil Conservation Districts
   [atlbull1.gif] Burleigh County Water Resources District
   [atlbull1.gif] General Public
   [atlbull1.gif] Scientific Community
   [atlbull1.gif] Colleagues and Co-Workers
   [atlbull1.gif] Other Research Locations
   [atlbull1.gif] Agri-Businesses
   [atlbull1.gif] Press/Media/Agricultural Journalists
   [atlbull1.gif] Fertilizer Industry


   [atlbull1.gif] Chemical Industry
   [atlbull1.gif] Commodity Groups
   [atlbull1.gif] NDSU Agricultural Experiment Station
   [atlbull1.gif] Natural Resources Conservation Service and Bismarck
                  Plant Materials Center
   [atlbull1.gif] Bureau of Land Management
   [atlbull1.gif] ND Association of Soil Conservation Districts
   [atlbull1.gif] Bureau of Reclamation
   [atlbull1.gif] ND Forest Service
   [atlbull1.gif] US Forest Service
   [atlbull1.gif] Lincoln-Oakes Nurseries
   [atlbull1.gif] Extension Service
   [atlbull1.gif] Financial Institutions
   [atlbull1.gif] Educational Institutions
   [atlbull1.gif] Conservation Organizations
   [atlbull1.gif] Environmental Organizations
   [atlbull1.gif] Professional Societies

   [atlbull1.gif] Anticipated Products resulting From the Research

   Research conducted under this project will result in new methodologies
   for integrating forage, crops, and livestock into agricultural systems
   that are economically feasible and environmentally sustainable. New
   germplasm will be developed that can be integrated into these systems.
   Computer programs that assist with management decisions will be
   developed, enhanced, and/or delivered to farmers, ranchers, and other
   agricultural managers.

      Go to Top of Page
