http://www.rehab.cahwnet.gov/eps/servpro.htm


   California - The Golden State    California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                         Page


     DEPARTMENT OF REHABILITATION Employment, Independence & Equality d

                              Service Providers

                             Gold Horizontal Bar
   DOR uses a variety of service providers to help disabled individuals
       achieve independence and employment. While DOR is mandated to use
       Public and Private Not for Profit Agencies whenever possible, there
       are times when Private for Profit Agencies or Individual Service
       Providers may be used.
       Definitions of providers
       Information on Services
       Information on requirements to become a service provider
       DEFINITIONS
        Public or Private Not for Profit Agency A Public Agency is
       directly funded by the government such as a school or other social
       service agency. A Private Not for Profit is an IRS and State of
       California approved Not For Profit organization.
       Private For Profit Agency
       A private licensed business, Private For Profit Agencies can be
       utilized when necessary services from Public or Private Not For
       Profit Agencies are not available or sufficient. Once approval has
       been granted from the Deputy Director for use, the requirements are
       the same as a Public or Private Not for Profit Agency.
       Individual Service Providers (ISP)
       A person that is not a part of any company or agency. Persons that
       are interested in serving clients directly as Individual Service
       Providers need to contact the local District Administrator to
       discuss the local service needs and approval process.
     INFORMATION ON SERVICES

       DOR contracts with providers to offer the following Vocational
       Rehabilitation Services:

     Academic tutors - (ISP only) assist clients with specific courses
     related to an academic course of study. Tutors must be able to
     maintain both impartiality and confidentiality in all assignments.
     Vocational skills tutors - (ISP only) assist clients in learning
     specific vocational skills. Tutors must be able to maintain both
     impartiality and confidentiality in all assignments.
     Language interpreting
     Language Interpreting - may be necessary for clients with limited
     English Speaking abilities or deafness requiring sign language or
     real time captioning
     Employment services - vocational evaluation , vocational assessment
     , situational assessment , personal, vocational social adjustment,
     job placement , job coaching , work services , supported employment
     Rehabilitation technology - technology assessment , technology
     systems , installation/set-up and training ,
     Independence development - Independent Living Skills Training ,
     Orientation and Mobility (O & M) Training , Benefits Counseling
     Personal Support Services - Personal support , Readers , Notetakers
     , Drivers , Attendants ,
     Business consultation
     Driver Assessment/Instruction Services - Assist clients to become
     safe and independent drivers.
       REQUIREMENTS
       Service vendors should contact their local District Administrator
       to discuss their interest in developing necessary services for DOR
       clients. The local district and the assigned Community Resources
       Development Section (CRDS) Resources Specialist may meet with the
       interested agency to discuss the vendorization and certification
       process, as appropriate.
       Public or Private Not For Profit agencies that are interested in
       providing Work Services and Supported Employment Job Coaching to
       developmentally disabled individuals may contact the Departments
       Habilitation Section for information on the approval process.
       Certification - Agencies are required to be certified by one of
       DOR's Resources Specialist prior to providing vocational
       rehabilitation services to DOR clients. Current Employment and
       Community Services Standards Many require the agency and specific
       service to also be CARF accredited.
       The Department's Community Rehabilitation Program Certification
       Standards Manual provides the necessary information on the
       requirements and exceptions for certification and CARF
       accreditation and can be ordered by contacting the Community
       Resources Development Section at crdsinfo@dor.ca.gov or calling
       (916) 263-7374 (Voice) or (916) 263-0379 (TTY).
       CARF - is a Private Not For Profit agency that provides an
       impartial review of vocational rehabilitation agencies and
       services. Their website address is www.carf.org.
       Vendorization - consists of a process to develop an appropriate
       service description and rate for the approved service
       Rates - During the vendorization process for an agency, a rate is
       determined by a legislative mechanism or by using a cost statement
       process, depending on the specific service.
       Grants - Grants for public or private not for profit agencies may
       be available for vocational rehabilitation services.


                                Gold Horizontal Bar


    DOR Home / Services / ADA / DOR Employment / Consumer Assistance /
   Independent Living
   About DOR / Grants / Service Providers / Employment Resources / FYI

      Comment Form / Table of Contents / Conditions of Use / Privacy Policy /
                                 E-mail Webmaster
                         Website Last Updated January 2002
