http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/about_us/about_us.htm

                                  Airplane


                 skip left nav NASA Logo
                               About Us
                               LaRC Mission
                               Finding Your Way Around
                               Virginia Air and Space Center
                               People
                 Privacy Statement
                               Economic Impact
                               Home
                 Freedom of Information Act



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education
   [news&events_images_but.gif] Business with LaRC Reports and
   Publications Site Index

   About Us

   Welcome to NASA Langley Research Center

      The next time you get on a plane or watch a U.S. space launch, picture
      in your mind coastal Virginia and the city of Hampton, near the mouth
      of the Chesapeake Bay. It's the home of NASA's Langley Research Center,
      800 acres of cutting edge aerospace technology.

      Langley continues to forge new frontiers in aviation and space research
      as it has since 1917, when it was established as the nation’s first
      civilian aeronautics laboratory. Langley’s mission and contributions to
      aerospace, atmospheric sciences and technology commercialization are
      improving the way the world lives.

      More than half of NASA Langley’s research is in aeronautics. Many of
      the facility’s 3800 civil service and contract employees focus on
      improving today’s military and civilian aircraft, while designing
      tomorrow’s jets. Not only does Langley develop Airframe Systems,
      scientists also examine the layers of air planes and spacecraft fly
      through in Atmospheric Sciences.

      Researchers have expanded their studies into other atmospheres, the
      kind spacecraft will find on distant planets. Next generation
      spaceships will be able to survive unforgiving extraterrestrial
      environments, because of work done at Langley in NASA’s Center of
      Excellence for Structures and Materials and in wind tunnels and test
      facilities.

      Langley leads NASA initiatives in aviation safety, quiet aircraft
      technology, small aircraft transportation and aerospace vehicles system
      technology. It supports NASA space programs with atmospheric research
      and technology testing and development.

      Its research has a significant impact on the global economy, making the
      skies safer, quieter and more efficient.

   mandatory image for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
