http://chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov/staff/faq.htm

   jump to text jump to links

   [USEMAP:navigation_r1_c1.gif]
   About Us
   What's New?
   Navigational Charts and Related Products
   Critical Corrections
   Wrecks and Obstructions
   Navigation Services
   Hydrographic Surveys
   Historic Maps and Charts
   Research and Development
   Sales Information
   Library
   FAQs
   Contact Us
   Home
   [navigation_r16_c1.gif]

   ""
   Office of Coast Survey Frequently Asked Questions
     * What is a nautical chart?
     * What are the basic elements of a nautical chart?
     * What is the difference between a map and a chart?
     * Where do I get chart updates?
     * Are NOS charts available on the Internet?
     * How do I become an NOS chart sales agent?
     * What is a Coast Pilot?
     * What is hydrography?
     * Are you looking for the "Shore and Sea Boundaries" reference book
       by Aaron Shalowitz?
     * Where do I get charts, Coast Pilots, and related publications?
     * Where is the Coast Survey located?

                     NOAA Electronic Navigational Charts

   Click on a question listed below to jump to the answer on this page.
     * What is an Electronic Navigational Chart?
     * What are ECS and ECDIS?
     * When will NOAA ENC be available to the public?
     * What data coverage will be available?
     * How will the public be able to obtain NOAA ENCs?
     * How much does an NOAA ENC cost?
     * Is an NOAA ENC a simply a copy of the paper chart?
     * What are the sources used in compiling NOAA ENCs?
     * Does the NOAA ENC have all of the features from the chart?
     * What NOAA ENC data is currently available?
     * How current is the NOAA ENC?
     * Is NOAA ENC data copyrighted by NOAA?
     * Do NOAA ENCs enhance marine navigation and will they replace the
       paper chart completely?
     * How often will new editions of NOAA ENCs be released?
     * What is meant by an NOAA ENC "cell"?
     * On what media will NOAA ENCs be available?
     * What hardware and software is required operate NOAA ENCs?
     * Can commercial systems operate and view NOAA ENC data?
     * Will NOAA provide any viewing or navigation software?
     * What commercially available software can be used to view NOAA ENCs?
     * What are the uses of NOAA ENCs?
     * What are the benefits of using NOAA ENCs?
     * What capabilities does NOAA ENC provide that are not available in a
       paper or raster chart?
     * How is the data displayed?
     * Does the data look like a paper chart?
     * Will NOAA ENCs be updated via the US Coast Guard Local Notice to
       Mariners?
     * Can a user get a screen print of any displays?
     * Can a display be used without GPS input?
     * On a ship that transits from one NOAA ENC to another NOAA ENC, can
       both areas be simultaneously shown in a single display?
     * Can other ships navigating in the ships area also appear in the
       NOAA ENC display?
     * How will NOAA ENCs be updated and maintained?
     * What does the date entry mean on the NOAA ENC download page?
     * Do NOAA ENCs have edition numbers or print dates like paper charts?
     * What does the file name of the NOAA ENC mean?
     * What is the CATALOG.031 file?
     * What are the other files included with the NOAA ENC?

   Question - What is an Electronic Navigational Chart?

   Answer - It is a vector- based digital file containing marine features
   suitable for marine navigation. It is based on the International
   Hydrographic Organization (IHO) S- 57 standard. The NOAA ENC is
   intended for use in electronic charting systems (ECS) as well as
   Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS). NOAA ENCs can
   also be used in geographic information systems (GIS) as base map data.

   Question - What are ECS and ECDIS?

   Answer - Electronic chart systems encompasses any electronic system
   that uses digital chart data. The chart data can be vector or raster
   and no specific format is currently defined, although many ECS can use
   NOAA ENC data. There are standards being developed for ECS by the Radio
   Technical Commission for Maritime Services (RTCM www.rtcm.org).
   Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS) are systems
   that are certified to meet a suite of international standards: IHO
   (www.iho.shom.fr) Transfer Standard for Digital Hydrographic Data S-
   57, IHO Specifications for Chart Content and Display aspects of ECDIS
   S- 52, IMO (www.imo.org) Resolution A.817 (19) Performance Standards
   for ECDIS, and IEC (www.iec.ch) 61174: ECDIS - Operational and
   performance requirements, methods of testing and required test results.
   An ECDIS must use "official" NOAA ENC data to meet all of these
   standards and may use "official" raster data where NOAA ENC data is not
   yet available.

   Question - When will NOAA ENC be available to the public?

   Answer - Creation of the database for producing NOAA ENCs takes time
   and resources. We currently project that the initial coverage of major
   commercial ports will be completed by 2002. It is anticipated, however,
   that NOAA ENC data will be made publicly available before the entire
   coverage is complete. We plan to have data available starting in 2001
   with updating soon to follow.

   Question - What data coverage will be available?

   Answer - The nation's 40 major commercial port areas will be completed
   by the year 2002. This coverage is equivalent to approximately 200
   paper nautical charts. NOAA estimates that an additional 400 charts
   will have to be converted to NOAA ENC form for complete coverage of
   U.S. waters.

   Question - How will the public be able to obtain NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - NOAA ENCs will be available for download from the Coast Survey
   Website (chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov).

   Question - How much does an NOAA ENC cost?

   Answer - NOAA ENCs downloaded directly from the Coast Survey Website
   will be available free of charge. Private companies may offer NOAA ENCs
   as part of a service, in which case there may be an associated charge.

   Question - Is an NOAA ENC a simply a copy of the paper chart?

   Answer - The NOAA NOAA ENC program is building the NOAA ENC production
   database from a combination of charted information as well as original
   "source" information. NOAA has compiled critical features such as
   channel limits, aids to navigation and obstructions from the original
   documents that were used to put the feature on the paper chart. This
   means that a feature such as a federally maintained channel was
   digitized from a 1:2,400 scale drawing as opposed to a 1:20,000 scale
   chart. The objective is to use more accurate information for features
   that are critical to the safety of navigation.

   Question - What are the sources used in compiling NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - NOAA uses a number of sources in compiling NOAA ENCs. These
   include: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers surveys, drawings and permits,
   U.S. Coast Guard Local Notices to Mariners, National Imagery and
   Mapping Agency Notices to Mariners, NOAA hydrographic surveys, the
   largest scale paper chart of the area, as well as other source material
   that comes in to NOAA from a variety of public and private sources.

   Question - Does the NOAA ENC have all of the features from the chart?

   Answer - The NOAA NOAA ENC will contain most of the features currently
   shown on the corresponding paper chart. The detailed road networks and
   depictions of buildings in urban areas will be replaced with an "urban
   area" that is displayed as a tinted area with the associated place
   name. Some of the earlier NOAA ENCs that NOAA produced have limited
   content and are intended for deep draft navigation only as they do not
   have many of the alongshore features found on a paper chart. These NOAA
   ENCs are referred to as "Version 1" please click on this link for a
   more detailed description of Version 1 NOAA ENCs. The Version 1 NOAA
   ENCs are being upgraded so that the entire NOAA NOAA ENC suite will
   contain all of the features available on the paper chart.

   Question - What NOAA ENC data is currently available?

   Answer - Approximately 100 NOAA ENCs are available for evaluation,
   familiarization, testing and software development from the Coast Survey
   Website (chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov).

   Question - How current is the NOAA ENC?

   Answer - All NOAA ENCs that are considered "completed" are up to date
   for the current Notices to Mariners. They will also have any new chart
   information included within a few weeks of the information's arrival at
   NOAA.

   Question - Is NOAA ENC data copyrighted by NOAA?

   Answer - No.

   Question - Do NOAA ENCs enhance marine navigation and will they replace
   the paper chart completely?

   Answer - NOAA ENCs and RNCs will eventually replace paper charts for
   vessels using electronic navigation. NOAA will continue to produce
   paper charts for those users who do not choose to use electronic
   navigation. NOAA ENCs and ECS are the greatest advancement in maritime
   safety since the introduction of radar to ships.

   Question - How often will new editions of NOAA ENCs be released?

   Answer - This is yet to be determined. In paper chart production, new
   editions are driven by the amount of new information to be applied to
   the chart as well as how many copies are in stock for use. Neither of
   these considerations really apply to the NOAA ENC, so new NOAA ENC
   editions may be synchronized to the paper chart cycle or may be on a
   set schedule, e.g., annually released.

   Question - What is meant by an NOAA ENC "cell"?

   Answer - The area covered by an NOAA ENC is referred to as a "cell." At
   present, each NOAA ENC corresponds to the largest scale paper chart in
   a given area. As the NOAA ENC begins to contain more detail and the
   file sizes get larger, it may become necessary to split the cells into
   smaller areas.

   Question - On what media will NOAA ENCs be available?

   Answer - Coast Survey will not provide NOAA ENCs on any hard media,
   they will be only available from the Government at the Coast Survey
   Website (chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov). However, private companies may make
   NOAA NOAA ENCs available on products that are available on hard media.

   Question - What hardware and software is required operate NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - Display of and NOAA ENC is dependent on navigation software
   such as an ECDIS. However, the NOAA ENC is not dependent on unique
   operating systems or navigation software. Since it is provided in an
   international, publicly available standard format, any software company
   that wants to support NOAA ENC data can implement that capability
   without restricting the software to a proprietary format or provider.

   Question - Can commercial systems operate and view NOAA ENC data?

   Answer - Yes. A number of commercially available systems use NOAA ENC
   data. These include both "type- approved" ECDIS software as well as ECS
   packages.

   Question - Will NOAA provide any viewing or navigation software?

   Answer - No. NOAA is providing the NOAA ENC data. It is up to the
   commercial market to provide software to use it.

   Question - What commercially available software can be used to view
   NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - Please look at the list of software provided on the NOAA ENC
   Homepage.

   Question - What are the uses of NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - Marine navigation, route planning, and GIS applications are
   just some the uses for the data as a background display. USCG already
   uses NOAA ENC in several Vessel Traffic Systems (VTS) to monitor ship
   movements in rivers, harbor, and bays in the U.S. Since NOAA ENC is a
   vector product, categories of data may be individually selected or
   queried. Because of this data flexibility, NOAA ENC is a powerful
   database supporting various marine and GIS applications.

   Question - What are the benefits of using NOAA ENCs?

   Answer - Incorporating digital chart data with a continuous GPS signal
   for automated vessel positioning enhances safety of navigation. Users
   can selectively display only the information desired while the computer
   can continue to process all the information for safety of navigation.
   Many marine mishaps are due to human error. Vector chart data with
   proper software applications will enhance safe navigation and provide
   the mariner with advance electronic warnings of unforeseen dangers.

   Question - What capabilities does NOAA ENC provide that are not
   available in a paper or raster chart?

   Answer - Data can be queried (i.e., vector data is smart data) in a
   variety of ways, which gives the user much more information than a
   static paper chart can. The navigator can control the display of the
   NOAA ENC data, which allows for a customized display that only shows
   information critical to safe navigation. The navigation system software
   can continuously monitor the ship's position relative to all of the
   features contained in the NOAA ENC, whether displayed or not, and sound
   alarms if it detects a hazardous situation. Similarly, the software can
   check that planned routes will provide safe passage for the vessel by
   checking for proximity to dangers and crossing areas with insufficient
   depth.

   Question - How is the data displayed?

   Answer - This depends entirely on the navigation software or GIS that
   is being used. An ECDIS will use the symbols and colors required by
   regulation, but other systems can use whatever symbols the manufacturer
   chooses.

   Question - Does the data look like a paper chart?

   Answer - It can, depending on what colors and symbols the display
   software is using.

   Question - Will NOAA ENCs be updated via the US Coast Guard Local
   Notice to Mariners?

   Answer - Yes. NOAA plans to provide updates for the NOAA ENC similar to
   the updates currently provided for the raster chart. These will include
   all Local Notices to Mariners corrections.

   Question - Can a user get a screen print of any displays?

   Answer - Depends on the software being used. Most PC platforms support
   screen prints.

   Question - Can a display be used without GPS input?

   Answer - Yes, but the ideal navigational situation is to have an
   automated positioning signal feed into the system displaying NOAA ENC
   data for continuous vessel tracking.

   Question - On a ship that transits from one NOAA ENC to another NOAA
   ENC, can both areas be simultaneously shown in a single display?

   Answer - It all depends on the customer's system capability; nothing in
   the database precludes this capability.

   Question - Can other ships navigating in the ships area also appear in
   the NOAA ENC display?

   Answer - This depends on the customer electronic navigation systems -
   nothing in the data precludes display of the data from ship's radar
   screen or, when adopted, Automated Information System symbology.

   Question - How will NOAA ENCs be updated and maintained?

   Answer - NOAA ENCs will be updated with new source material and Notices
   to Mariners (both Local and NIMA). The NOAA ENC production system will
   be able to convert any new source materials such as hydrographic
   surveys, Notices to Mariners, etc. for inclusion in the NOAA ENC
   database.

   Question - What does the date entry mean on the NOAA ENC download page?

   Answer - The date shown on the NOAA ENC download page is the date that
   the compressed NOAA ENC archive was last modified. This usually means
   that a new, updated cell replaced the NOAA ENC cell file. It may also
   mean that one or more of the supporting text or picture files was
   modified. Users should always make sure that they are using the latest
   version of the NOAA ENC and its supporting files.

   Question - Do NOAA ENCs have edition numbers or print dates like paper
   charts?

   Answer - In short, yes they do. Every NOAA ENC starts with a file
   header that has various information, metadata, about that particular
   NOAA ENC. The header has a number of "subfields," each of which has
   information about a particular aspect of the NOAA ENC. One subfield is
   the edition number, which is a sequential number that works just like
   the edition number on a paper chart. The first time an NOAA ENC is
   issued, it is edition one (1), which is subsequently superseded by
   edition two (2) and so forth. There is also a subfield called issue
   date which is the first date that the NOAA ENC may be used for
   navigation. Finally, the update application date subfield indicates the
   last date through which all updates (Notices to Mariners in particular)
   have been applied.

   Question - What does the file name of the NOAA ENC mean?

   Answer - The NOAA ENC file name format is specified in the IHO S-57
   standard. The first two characters, US, indicate that the U.S. Office
   of Coast Survey, NOAA, produced the NOAA ENC. The third character
   indicates the "navigational purpose" of the NOAA ENC as defined in
   S-57, a rough indicator of the scale of the NOAA ENC: 1-overview;
   2-general; 3-coastal; 4-approach; 5-harbor; 6-berthing. The remaining
   characters left of the dot are defined by Coast Survey. The fourth and
   fifth characters are the two letter postal code for the state where the
   NOAA ENC is located (e.g., TX for Texas, NY for New York, etc.) The
   next two characters are the NOAA ENCs number and the final character is
   "M" indicated that the NOAA ENC is in metric units. The file extension,
   ".000," for a base NOAA ENC cell is used for updating. The first update
   for a cell will be ".001" the next ".002" and so forth.

   Question - What is the CATALOG.031 file?

   Answer - The CATALOG.031 file is a listing of the cells and ancillary
   files that are included in an NOAA ENC "exchange set." Each file has an
   entry in the CATALOG file so that your software can check to see if all
   of the relevant files are included. The ".031" extension indicates the
   edition of S-57 that was used to produce the files. At present, due to
   the fact that the NOAA ENCs are being distributed on the Internet
   rather than on a CD-ROM or other medium, the CATALOG file that is
   included with the NOAA ENCs that you select for download will list all
   of the NOAA ENCs currently available on the site, not just those that
   you download. This may cause your software to report a discrepancy
   between the CATALOG and the NOAA ENCs that you are loading, but should
   not cause any problems with using the NOAA ENC data.

   Question - What are the other files included with the NOAA ENC?

   Answer - Besides the CATALOG file explained above, there is a
   README.TXT file included that lists all of the NOAA ENCs with their
   corresponding paper/raster chart number, title and other information.
   Each NOAA ENC may have ancillary files associated with it. These may be
   text files that are analogous to chart notes on the paper chart or
   possibly information from the Coast Pilot. There also may be picture
   files such as .tif or .jpg files that include a picture that is linked
   to a feature(s) on the NOAA ENC, such as a picture of a bridge.

   Raster Chart Display Systems

   QUESTION: Why is RCDS being proposed as a SOLAS-compliant navigation
   system?

   ANSWER: There are a substantial number of raster-based, electronic
   navigation systems being sold and used. This experience is showing
   raster systems to be excellent navigation tools which provide a
   functionality at least equivalent to the paper chart. Most have
   features such as real time positioning which are far beyond paper
   charts. They are also inexpensive and easy to use and update.

   It is an IMO responsibility to advance technologies which improve the
   safety and efficiency of marine navigation. An RCDS Performance
   Standard will insure that suitable equipment and official data are
   developed and used. An accepted RCDS Standard will also provide an
   endorsement of this technology which should encourage its spread. The
   IMO is thus providing an additional tool for the mariner.

   QUESTION: How do paper charts, RCDS and ECDIS compare as navigation
   tools?

   ANSWER: The paper nautical chart is the fundamental tool of marine
   navigation. It has served for hundreds of years to convey information
   about the marine environment and for voyage planning and monitoring.
   The navigation features of the paper chart are well documented in IHO
   Publication MP-004, Chart Specifications of the IHO .

   Raster chart display systems exactly reproduce the familiar paper
   chart. All chart information is available to mariners in a picture they
   are experienced at using. RCDS adds real time positioning, electronic
   tools for voyage planning and monitoring (way points, off-track
   alarms,...), improved nighttime visibility, access to chart notes, etc.
   In addition, RCDS provides for the automatic application of official
   updates issued by national hydrographic offices.

   ECDIS does not display an existing chart but constructs a chart-like
   display which meets the standards adopted by the IMO. It provides all
   of the navigation functionality of RCDS and adds the capability of
   additional alarms triggered by the chart data (prohibited area, safety
   contour,...) and the ability to remove some chart information to
   simplify the display.

   Both RCDS and ECDIS have the disadvantages of higher cost since they
   require a computer, limited display area, and some small chance of
   electronic failure. The risk of electronic failure should be no worse
   than for already accepted devices such as LORAN, GPS, radio, and radar.

   QUESTION: What would be the benefits of adopting an RCDS Performance
   Standard?

   ANSWER: Mariners would benefit by having an additional navigation tool
   with features such as real time positioning. A Performance Standard
   would help them select a capable system and remain SOLAS-compliant. As
   ECDIS becomes available, it would find a pool of experienced electronic
   navigators who would be ready to move up to the more sophisticated
   ECDIS.

   Hydrographic offices would increase their level of mission
   accomplishment by providing additional data to mariners. For HO's where
   ECDIS data will not be immediately available or is too expensive to
   collect and maintain, RCDS can provide an interim solution.

   For system manufacturers, it would expand the size of the market and
   encourage more companies to produce electronic navigation systems. This
   can only help make ECDIS systems less expensive. In addition, an
   IMO-approved RCDS could be used as an ECDIS backup.

   QUESTION: Why should we move quickly to adopt an RCDS Standard?

   ANSWER: RCDS systems are being sold in increasing numbers. IMO should
   move quickly in order to help emerging systems meet a minimum standard
   as a means of guaranteeing safety. Also, nations producing official
   raster chart data need an RCDS Standard. IMO action at this time would
   prevent the spread of many different national standards.

   QUESTION: How can IMO quickly approve an RCDS Standard when the ECDIS
   Standard took 8 years to write and approve?

   ANSWER: First, many of the decisions made for ECDIS apply directly to
   RCDS. For example, the necessary functions of electronic navigation
   systems (route planning and monitoring, updating, voyage recording...)
   are now accepted. This question does not need to be reexamined because
   the same functions would be required of an RCDS.

   Second, much of the time-consuming work that was done for ECDIS does
   not apply to RCDS. For example, the development of the S-57
   feature/object catalog will not be repeated for RCDS because raster
   charts are exact digital copies of official hydrographic office charts.

   Third, there is substantial experience with raster chart systems that
   did not exist for vector systems when ECDIS was being specified. This
   practical experience removes much of the uncertainty that was dealt
   with by time-consuming discussions, simulations and tests of the ECDIS
   Performance Standard.

   QUESTION: Do we really know enough to approve an RCDS Standard?

   ANSWER: Yes. The hydrographic offices proposing an RCDS Performance
   Standard have both practical and analytical data to support RCDS as a
   suitable navigation tool. It is estimated that in the U.S. alone, over
   6,000 raster-based navigation systems are in use. Such experience helps
   validate the proposed RCDS Standard and the suitability of RCDS as a
   paper chart replacement.

   QUESTION: How does the proposed RCDS Performance Standard differ from
   the ECDIS Performance Standard?

   ANSWER: The proposed RCDS Performance Standard is identical to the
   ECDIS Performance Standard except where the difference between raster
   data and vector data requires a change.

   RCDS would not have the automated alarms triggered by chart data that
   ECDIS provides nor could one reduce clutter by turning off chart
   objects. However, mariners would still have real time positioning,
   automatic updating and any alarms entered manually (off-track alarm,
   obstructions...). In addition, the familiar chart image would minimize
   training time and would allow mariners to use their existing navigation
   skills immediately.

   QUESTION: What might be controversial about the proposed RCDS Standard?

   ANSWER: RCDS offers somewhat less capability than ECDIS (e.g. no
   automated alarms, no turning features off). However, it does offer much
   more than the paper chart.

   Mariners would still benefit by using it when the full functionality of
   ECDIS was not needed or where a full suite of ECDIS data was not
   available.

   QUESTION: Would the need for raster data put an extra burden on
   hydrographic offices and slow their efforts to provide ECDIS data?

   ANSWER: This decision should be based on the contribution to navigation
   safety and efficiency not on the convenience of hydrographic offices.
   However, four nations produce raster charts of their waters (U.S.,
   U.K., Canada, and Australia). All four report that the production of
   RNC's had no impact on their NOAA ENC data collection for ECDIS.

   The production of raster data is simple, quick and inexpensive. Raster
   charts cost between $500 (US) and $1,500 (US) each for their initial
   production depending on the method used. In the U.S., NOAA has achieved
   savings of $1M annually in its paper chart production and gets raster
   charts for free by combining the production of the two products. This
   technology can be made available to other hydrographic offices.

   QUESTION: Will approving an RCDS Standard lessen our commitment to
   ECDIS?

   ANSWER: No. It will increase our commitment to the mariner by providing
   an additional tool that can be used when the full functionality of
   ECDIS is not needed or where ECDIS data is not available. Its
   suitability as an ECDIS backup will remove one more barrier to the
   eventual use of ECDIS.

   QUESTION: If RCDS is accepted and used, would mariners switch to the
   more powerful ECDIS as it becomes available?

   ANSWER: A system which meets the proposed RCDS Performance Standard
   should become ECDIS-compliant merely by upgrading the software. The
   expense and inconvenience is thus minimal. Manufacturers in the USA are
   already demonstrating navigation systems that can use several types of
   raster data, including RNC's and several types of vector data,
   including NOAA ENC's.

   QUESTION: How does RCDS deal with charts of different map projections
   and on different datums?

   ANSWER: Metadata included with the RNC's identifies the projection and
   datum for each chart. The navigation software then converts positioning
   system information into the chart's projection and datum in real-time.
   If a chart's datum is unknown, the RNC metadata includes the parameters
   necessary to map geographic positions to RNC pixel locations calculated
   from the grid intersections printed on the chart.

   QUESTION: How can raster charts replace paper charts when only a
   portion of a chart can be seen at any one time?

   ANSWER: RCDS offers exactly the same field of view capability as ECDIS
   which has already been accepted by the IMO/IHO. Both RCDS and ECDIS
   specify a 270mm x 270mm screen size. Whether displaying a 1:40,000
   scale RNC or 1:40,000 scale NOAA ENC data, the width of the computer
   screen will only show approximately 5.8 nm.

   RCDS and ECDIS deal with a computer's limited field of view in a
   similar way. RCDS users load the next smaller scale chart. ECDIS users
   zoom out and let the software suppress information and resize the
   remaining text and symbols -- in essence creating a smaller scale chart
   dynamically. Also, the ability to pan across a chart or to open
   multiple charts of different scales at the same time gives RCDS and
   ECDIS increased viewing capability.

   QUESTION: ECDIS took 10 years to specify and accept. Is the IMO being
   too hasty in trying to accept RCDS in substantially less time. Has it
   been adequately studied?

   ANSWER: The ground breaking efforts that led to adoption of ECDIS have
   paved the way for more rapid adoption of RCDS. Advances in computer
   technology and new navigation software permits a performance standard
   for RCDS that is nearly identical to that of ECDIS. In fact, the
   Technical Work Group of NAV 43 developed a standard for RCDS which
   provides ECDIS with the capability of using official raster nautical
   charts. This is the so-called "dual-fuel" concept. Mariners have
   considerably more experience with raster-based charting systems than
   with ECDIS because raster nautical charts have been available worldwide
   for some time. This experience helps us know that RCDS is safe and
   enhances navigation safety and efficiency. Surveys by the UK and the
   USA testify to the functionality and safety of RCDS as a stand-alone
   tool for navigation planning and route monitoring. Results from at-sea
   trials conducted by The Netherlands, Ireland, and a joint program
   testing the dual-fuel concept soon will be published.

   QUESTION: How can one plot a course and navigate that course when it
   crosses several charts which may be of different projection, scale and
   datum?

   ANSWER: Advanced RCDS software automatically switches charts when the
   vessel arrives at the edge of the present chart. The new chart is
   displayed in a scale as close to the previous chart as possible. The
   datum issue is addressed above. Projection differences are
   automatically accommodated by advanced RCDS software.

   QUESTION: Does chart clutter make a RCDS unusable?

   ANSWER: RNC's are exact copies of paper charts and contain all the
   detail of those original charts. Hydrographic offices had worried that
   this would appear "cluttered" when displayed on a computer monitor.
   However, users are reporting that "chart clutter" is not a serious
   problem with raster charts.

   QUESTION: Is vector NOAA ENC data inherently better than raster RNC
   data?

   ANSWER: They both have strengths and weaknesses. Vector data allow
   displays to be decluttered and support automated alarms based on the
   data itself. Raster data provides most of the ECDIS functionality but
   are far easier to produce and are more widely available. However, this
   is a misleading question. The real questions are: Does RCDS provide the
   tools for a mariner to safely navigate? (Yes, tests at sea so
   indicate.) Does it enhance safety of over the paper chart? (Yes, a
   survey of U.S. mariners overwhelming attests)

   QUESTION: How are chart notes and legends found on a raster chart?

   ANSWER: Hydrographic offices provide the coordinates of a rectangle
   surrounding each note, legend, tide box or channel depth table. They
   also provide reference point coordinates for each note. RCDS software
   places an unobtrusive (or invisible!) icon at the reference point. When
   the icon is "picked" by the mariner, a second small window on the chart
   opens, displaying the note. This method would allow notes to be
   displayed automatically as a mariner's ship approaches the coordinates
   of the reference points.

   QUESTION: Can text and symbols be resized (rescaled) when one zooms in
   and out on a raster chart?

   ANSWER: No. Text and symbols will be enlarged or reduced as one zooms
   in and out. If this results in text that is too small or too large to
   read, it means that you are operating out-of-scale and should switch to
   a different scale chart.

   QUESTION: Can the mariner limit the information that is displayed on
   the RCDS?

   ANSWER: No. RCDS displays a complete RNC which is a copy of a paper
   chart. The concern that displaying all chart information may be too
   cluttered is proving not to be the case. A benefit of this
   characteristic is that critical information is never accidentally
   turned off.

   QUESTION: Can data be interrogated with RCDS as it can with ECDIS?

   ANSWER: No. RCDS cannot directly interrogate an RNC which is merely an
   electronic picture of a paper chart. However, since the RNC displays
   all of the paper chart, most information is already displayed and the
   RNC does not need to be interrogated.

   Additional data which may accompany an RNC, such as operator-entered
   items or other data bases can be interrogated in real-time and used to
   trigger alarms or perform other operations. For example, a mariner may
   designate hazards on or near his route. RCDS would then trigger alarms
   when these hazards were approached, even if the relevant chart was not
   being displayed at the time.

   QUESTION: What kind of automatic alarms and indicators does an RCDS
   support?

   ANSWER: RCDS issues automatic indicators when an RNC is being displayed
   over scale, when a larger scale chart is available and when the chart
   is on a different reference system from the positioning system. RCDS
   issues automatic alarms for exceeding an off-track limit, deviating
   from a route, approaching a critical point, using a chart on a
   different geodetic datum, approaching a critical point/line/area and
   for an RCDS malfunction.

   RCDS allows mariners to enter points, lines and areas to designate
   other alarm items. A mariner may enter obstructions, navigable limits
   (rough safety contours), prohibited areas, etc. anywhere on a chart or
   on any chart. These are monitored by RCDS software and alarms can be
   triggered even though a particular chart is not being displayed at the
   time an alarm feature is approached.

   QUESTION: Is it possible to integrate a radar presentation with the
   RCDS display?

   ANSWER: Yes. Navigation software now filter the radar picture so that
   it and the raster display are legible.

   QUESTION: Can RNC's have daytime and nighttime colors like NOAA ENC's?

   ANSWER: Software can remap the RNC's colors and their brightness to any
   other colors and brightness available on the host computer. Thus dusk,
   twilight and nighttime colors can be specified. National hydrographic
   offices providing RNC's should specify a pallet for their charts which
   is most suitable for those different conditions.

   QUESTION: Won't acceptance of RCDS slow our progress towards ECDIS?

   ANSWER: No. Instead, it will increase our commitment to the mariner by
   providing an additional tool that can be used when the full
   functionality of ECDIS is not needed or where ECDIS data is not
   available. Also, its suitability as a backup for ECDIS will remove one
   more barrier to the eventual use of ECDIS. As ECDIS data sets become
   available, professional mariners and others who would benefit from the
   increased functionality of vector data will adopt that technology.

   QUESTION: Has there been sufficient experience at sea with RCDS to
   allow it to be used in place of the paper chart?

   ANSWER: Given the worldwide availability of raster nautical charts and
   the proliferation of electronic display systems capable of using raster
   chart data -- including "dual-fuel" capable ECDIS - there is
   undoubtedly more experience at sea navigating with raster charts than
   with ECDIS data.

   QUESTION: Why are some people and some countries opposed to RCDS?

   ANSWER: They oppose RCDS for a variety of reasons, including a vested
   interest in ECDIS, fear that official RNCs will compete with privately
   produced data, and concern that RCDS will delay and/or compete with
   ECDIS. None of these reasons are connected with the efficacy of RCDS as
   an instrument for safe navigation, which should be the only concern in
   this matter.

   QUESTION: How does RCDS provide an adequate look-ahead capability when
   you can only see a small part of a chart on the computer screen?

   ANSWER: Consider the following 3 points.

     Point 1

     An RCDS offers exactly the same look-ahead functionality provided by
     an ECDIS which has already been accepted by IMO. Both RCDS and ECDIS
     specify a 270x270 mm screen size. Whether displaying a 1:40,000
     scale RNC or 1:40,000 NOAA ENC data, the width of the computer
     screen will only show about 5.8nm.

     Point 2

     RCDS and ECDIS deal with a computer’s limited field-of-view for
     look-ahead capability in a similar way. RCDS users load the next
     smaller scale chart. ECDIS users zoom out, and let the software
     suppress information and resize the remaining text and symbols -- in
     essence creating a smaller scale chart dynamically. Also, the
     ability to pan along one’s track or to open multiple charts of
     different scales at the same time gives an RCDS (and ECIDS)
     increased look-ahead functionality.

     Point 3

     A paper chart only offers the preferred look-ahead capability if
     one’s location is near the edge. A 1:40,000 scale chart on A0 size
     paper with a border around the neatline only depicts a 17nm x 25 nm
     area. Charts on paper of A1 size or smaller would have
     proportionately less look-ahead distance.

     Finally, RCDS and ECDIS both offer automatic look-ahead. RCDS looks
     ahead and triggers alarms using mariner-entered data. ECDIS looks
     ahead and triggers alarms using the NOAA ENC data. Both RCDS and
     ECDIS offer an improvement in look-ahead capability for mariners
     over today’s paper chart.

   .

   About Us What's New? Nautical Charts and Related Publications Critical
   Corrections Wrecks and Obstructions [Transpar-nav-box.gif] Hydrographic
   Surveys Research and Development Historic Maps and Charts Library Sales
   Information FAQs Contact Us Home


   Top line
   Department of Commerce
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   OCS Privacy Statement
   National Ocean Service
   [bottomlines.gif]

   Friday November 23 2001by OCS Webmaster
