http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Study/MODISCalibration/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
   DAACs Features

     Well Grounded   by Rachel Hauser
   September 19, 2001

   In orbit since December 1999 onboard NASA's Terra satellite, the
   Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), records images
   of the globe every 24 to 48 hours, providing scientists with
   information on a wide variety of the Earth's features, including cloud
   cover and global vegetation. But scientists must be sure MODIS'
   measurements are accurate. Characterizing the instrument's performance
   involved an innovative and international collaboration of scientists.
       Walk-up tower
   This walk-up canopy tower is part of a research facility in Santarém,
   Brazil, operated jointly by NASA and the Large Scale
   Biosphere-Atmosphere Experiment in Amazonia (LBA). Click here for more
   information.
   pullquote
   Mongolia
   Most of Mongolia's 2.3 million residents live on semiarid,
   grass-covered plateaus stretching across eastern and northern Mongolia.
   The Gobi Desert covers most of southern Mongolia. Click here for more
   information (in a new window).
   For more information, visit:
   Oak Ridge National Laboratory
   EROS Data Center
   LBA Ecology Project Office
   SAFARI 2000 Project
   Canadian Centre for Remote Sensing
   (A new browser window will open for each.)
   "For each of the MODIS land data products we develop, we want to have
   some field data, or ground reference, to ensure that what we think
   we're seeing in the images is truly representative of ground level
   processes," said Jeff Morisette, MODIS Land Team (MODLAND) Validation
   Coordinator. "We required detailed information from a global network of
   research sites to provide us with measurements about aspects of land
   cover types, vegetation uptake and carbon dioxide release, and
   atmospheric carbon exchange."

   Funding for image validation studies began in 1998 with comparisons
   between surface and satellite sensor data from, for example, Landsat
   Thematic Mapper (TM) or Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+), SPOT and
   Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) sensors, and with
   MODIS imagery when it became available during the 2000 summer growing
   season.

   To ensure accurate comparisons between sensors, field measurements had
   to be 'scaled-up' so that data collected 100 meters above the ground by
   aircraft sensors, and data collected by satellite sensors hundreds of
   kilometers in the air matched the ground-based validation data. In
   other words, if the field data identified distinct clumps of deciduous
   trees amongst the surrounding coniferous forest, then the validation
   team needed to ensure that they could identify the same deciduous
   vegetation in the remotely sensed imagery.

   "Typically, field measurements and/or low altitude aircraft data are
   collected and used to adjust high-resolution satellite data, such as
   ETM+ on Landsat 7 or ASTER on Terra, to observed ground parameters. We
   then take this suite of data to derive high-resolution satellite images
   that replicate parameters, such as land surface temperature or land
   cover type, comparable to the MODIS product," Morisette said. "Lastly,
   we apply an averaging technique to account for scale differences
   between the high-resolution and MODIS data products."

   Using this adjustment process, field data are directly comparable to
   MODIS data.

   Rondonia region of Brazil
   This true-color MODIS image shows deforestation in the Rondonia region
   of Brazil, in the south-central Amazon Basin. Click here for more
   information (in a new window).

   International Cooperation
   "We needed surface information representative of each different global
   biome. Financially we don't have the resources to set up all of the
   required research sites, so we opted to tie into existing international
   research networks," Morisette said.

   The MODLAND team collected validation information domestically from a
   variety of sources including the Long Term Ecological Research sites
   and existing research networks, such as NASA's AERONET (Aerosol Robotic
   Network) program. Internationally, MODLAND garnered validation data
   from research projects such as Brazil's Large-scale Biosphere
   Atmosphere program in Amazonia, the SAFARI 2000 research initiative in
   Southern Africa, work from Chiba University in Mongolia's grasslands,
   and data from Canada's boreal forests collected by the Canadian Centre
   for Remote Sensing (CCRS). Currently, these international land product
   validation activities are organized through a newly formed
   subcommittee, the Calibration and Validation Working Group, within
   NASA's Committee on Earth Observing Satellites.

   "We've provided the MODIS land validation team with a wide variety of
   field measurements from nine different ecozones in Canada, and we'll
   provide information from three additional ecozones by the end of 2001,"
   said Richard Fernandes, research scientist with CCRS' Environmental
   Monitoring Section. "For each biome, we've picked approximately 20 to
   30 plots within 150 square kilometer regions, the area equivalent to a
   Landsat frame. We use these data to calculate leaf area index (LAI)
   over Canada for use in models that monitor Canada's carbon and
   hydrology budget."

   Several benefits have resulted from collaborating with international
   research organizations: CCRS researchers had created algorithms to
   calculate LAI from satellite imagery, which they shared with members of
   the MODIS land validation team. CCRS' LAI history spans from 1992 to
   2000, and CCRS plans to extend this record back another 10 years.

   "We've applied our algorithms to identify LAI in MODIS imagery over
   Canada, and developed LAI algorithms for use with other sensors for
   ecozones throughout Canada. After running the data through our
   algorithms, we can compare MODIS images to imagery from more familiar
   sensors to get a better idea of what we're seeing in MODIS images,"
   Fernandes said. "So, in addition to providing field data for
   validation, we plan to make estimates of LAI over Canada using our
   algorithms and MODIS data available to users via our Web site. We'll
   also provide our estimated errors using these methods. So other
   scientists, including MODIS science team members, will have our
   validation data for input into their algorithms and they can compare
   their results with ours using MODIS imagery."

   Aspens in coniferous forest
   Clumps of deciduous trees often grow in larger coniferous forests, such
   as this group of Aspen trees in Rocky Mountain National Park. (Image
   courtesy of the USGS)

   Tools Required
   "MODIS data will cut anywhere from 50 to 75 percent of the work usually
   required to obtain nationwide composite images of LAI," Fernandes said.
   "During this first year, we're taking a lot of time to ensure that we
   understand everything the MODIS team does to create LAI measurements.
   Once we have a system for acquiring the information we need we'll
   directly download the LAI data and project the data into a format
   compatible with our system software using the Earth Resources
   Observation Systems (EROS) Distributed Active Archive Center's (EDC
   DAAC) reprojection tool, apply our algorithms, and away we'll go," he
   said.

   MODIS Land products are generated in the Integerized Sinusoidal (ISIN)
   grid, a projection that allows for uninterrupted global projection, and
   therefore, an undistorted global view. MODIS land data users, however,
   have had difficulty reading the data into the unusual ISIN projection
   using available software. In answer, the EDC DAAC created a tool that
   reprojects MODIS data into a software-compatible format.

   "We wanted to provide people with a way to read the data files, extract
   images from the file, reproject and sample information from a specific
   study region, and have the final output available in a
   software-friendly format," said John Dwyer, EDC DAAC Project Scientist.

   "To create the reprojection tool we used, as a baseline, an ISIN
   version that integrated computer code from EDC's existing mapping
   transformation software (the Generalized Cartographic Transformation
   Package, or GCTP). At the same time we incorporated image resampling
   software code developed at EDC for use in the Landsat 7 land assessment
   project," Dwyer said.

   Tool users may subset the data by region, which effectively reduces the
   amount of information downloaded, thereby facilitating data transfer.
   EDC also hoped to facilitate access to MODIS data for users of all
   skill levels by creating a graphical user interface that eased data
   access and navigation.

   "The Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) DAAC uses EDC's Reprojection
   Tool to provide MODIS products to the community of scientists compiling
   field measurements and performing product validation. Because of the
   reprojection tool, ORNL can provide MODIS products in an immediately
   useful format for science investigators that don't typically work with
   remote sensing data," said Dick Olson, staff scientist at ORNL.

   "The science community has been a great help in developing the
   reprojection tool. We've created this tool on a shoestring and had our
   users provide on-the-fly testing because, outside of some initial
   tests, we don't have the resources for rigorous, pre-release software
   testing, said Dwyer. "With each incremental release, people have sent
   us problem reports so that we could verify and rectify any problems
   that they've encountered."

   "Our group was one of the first to use the MODIS Reprojection Tool,"
   Fernandes said. "We found it invaluable. It works quite well and the
   EDC people are always willing to help us with any problems
   encountered."

   "Subsets of MODIS-derived products, which include surface temperature,
   vegetation index, LAI, photosynthesis, and surface reflectance, are
   produced by the MODIS Data Processing System for a select number of
   validation sites," said Olson. "After reformatting the products using
   the reprojection tool, ORNL posts the files online. Eventually, as more
   products become available, users will be able to quickly evaluate
   temporal patterns and compare to field measurements."

   Fynbos vegetation in South Africa
   A seemingly uniform flora can be quite diverse. Part of the SAFARI 2000
   study region, South Africa occupies less than 1 percent of Earth's
   landmass yet contains over 10 percent of the world's plant species.
   (Image courtesy of the USDA Agricultural Research Magazine's Floral
   Gems, photo by Thomas Elias. A new browser window will open.)

   Active Data Archive
   Once the validation process has finished, links to the MODIS land
   validation data will be provided by ORNL's Mercury system. Mercury
   allows researchers to obtain MODIS land data directly from the data
   provider.

   "The provider supplies prospective users with background metadata on
   his or her data. After specifying the type of data desired, the user
   goes directly to the data provider's Web site," said Morisette.
   "Mercury doesn't hold any data, it's a clearinghouse that provides data
   registration and points to where data reside. We're trying to help ORNL
   and the data providers by offering some user service function and data
   quality assessment so uninitiated users understand what parameters were
   collected from a particular site and how to use the data."

   By creating improved sensors dedicated to environmental and climate
   research, providing the tools to use and understand the data, and
   encouraging cooperative research efforts, NASA's Earth Observing System
   facilitates global research efforts.

     The NASA Distributed Active Archive Centers (DAACs) provide data and
     user services in support of the Earth observing sciences.


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
