http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/wfjic/jobs/TN9564.HTM




   USAJobs Logo and link to home page
   Skip over navigation bar to content Link to the USAJobs Job Openings
   Email notification of Job Listings Link to Resume Builder Link to the
   Online Application Link to USAJobs Site Survey Link to USAJobs General
   Information Link to Contacting Us Link to the Privacy Act space holder
   The OPM Seal and link to OPM home page

                                 Job Details


          Use BACK on your browser to return to Job Search Results.


  USAJOBS                                                      CONTROL NO TN9564
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------FC
  GEOLOGIST, RESEARCH
                                             OPEN PERIOD 12/12/2001 - 02/15/2002
  SERIES/GRADE: GS-1350-13/13
  SALARY: $ 67,082 TO $ 87,212, ANNUAL      PROMOTION POTENTIAL: GS-13
  ANNOUNCEMENT NUMBER:  USGS-W-01-059

  HIRING AGENCY: INTERIOR, Geological Survey
  DUTY LOCATIONS: 1 vacancies Santa Cruz,   CA

  REMARKS: This is a Permanent Position.
           This is a Full-time position.





  Link to:         Employment with the U.S. Geological Survey

  CONTACT:         Julia Ainslow
                   PHONE: (650) 329-4110

                   TDD Phone Number: (650) 329-4123

                   INTERNET ADDRESS: jainslow@usgs.gov

                   U.S. Geological Survey
                   Personnel Office
                   7801 Folsom Blvd
                   Suite 103
                   Sacramento, CA  94025




                     [mmail.gif] Submit Résumé On-line

   To submit an online résumé for this announcement, click on the link to
   our on-line Résumé Builder above. You can use the Résumé Builder to
   create a résumé on the system or to edit and submit a résumé that you
   already have on file.

   NOTE: Submission of a résumé from the USAJOBS web site may not be a
   complete application. Many positions require the completion of
   additional forms and/or the submission of supplemental materials.
   Please carefully review the vacancy announcement which follows for full
   "How to Apply" instructions. Failure to provide the required
   information and/or materials may result in your not being considered
   for employment.

                 Download PDF file of Special Form - DI_1935

   This announcement requires completion of a special form or forms.
   Please carefully review the vacancy announcement which follows for full
   "How to Apply" instructions. To download a PDF file of the form for
   mailing, click on Download PDF file.

   After downloading the file, please complete the form (see announcement
   for instructions) and mail it to the address provided in the
   announcement.



   Who May Apply

      All qualified U.S. citizens may apply for this position. No previous
      Federal employment is required.

   Description of Position

      This position is located in the Western Region Coastal and Marine
      Geology Team in Santa Cruz, California. The primary purpose of this
      position is to provide scientific expertise in seafloor mapping and
      coastal geomorphology. The incumbent participates in broad
      multi-investigator, interdisciplinary studies of geologic hazards,
      environmental quality, and natural resources using field, remote
      sensing, laboratory, and theoretical approaches to map the geology of
      the seafloor and coastal zone, including the adjacent terrestrial
      areas. Research is conducted by mapping seafloor geology using
      state-of-the-art acoustic and optical imaging systems, image
      processing, and image analysis software. Geophysical techniques and
      sampling tools, such as high-resolution seismic profiling and coring,
      are used to characterize buried geologic deposits. Remotely sensed data
      are interpreted in light of current knowledge about behavior of
      acoustic signals in seawater, data-acquisition systems, and acoustic
      response of seafloor sediments. Digital geologic maps are prepared and
      published using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to display
      geologic information based on the acoustic data in combination with
      analyses of cores, seafloor samples, bottom photography and video,
      geophysical profiles, and other data. Research is also conducted by
      mapping coastal zone geology using state-of-the-art remote sensing
      systems, image processing, and image analysis, as well as ground truth
      observations. Ground-based geophysical tools, such as ground
      penetrating radar, are used to image buried geologic deposits and
      geotechnical techniques are used to assess their physic properties.
      Remotely sensed data are analyzed in conjunction with ground-based
      observations to map bedrock, soil, vegetation, and other natural and
      cultural features.

   Qualification Requirements

      Applicants who meet the minimum qualifications will be rated and ranked
      on the knowledges, abilities, skills, and other characteristics
      (KASOCs) listed in this announcement, as documented in their
      application package.

      ***BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS: GS-1350*** Degree in geology which
      must include 20 additional semester hours in any combination of
      mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, engineering
      (structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum), computer science,
      planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology,
      hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, or
      cartography.

      A combination of education and experience may used for basic
      qualification as described above. Acceptable experience may have been
      gained through geological field or laboratory work that provided a
      means of obtaining profesisonal knowledge of the theory and application
      of the principles of geology and closely related sciences. To receive
      credit for geological experience obtained in positions that are not
      full-time professional geological positions, the applicant is
      responsible for indicating clearly the actual time or percentage of
      time devoted to geologic duties within such positions, and for giving
      adequate descriptions of the geologic functions.

      In addition to the basic requirements listed above the candidate must
      have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level
      related to the position to be filled. Appropriate experience would be
      experience such as conducting research mapping seafloor geology using
      imaging systems, image processing, and impage profilling to image
      buried geologic deposits and assess their physical properties.

      This is a research position; the full performance level is dependent
      upon the scientific contributions of the incumbent as evaluated by a
      peer panel.

   Knowledges, Skills and Abilities Required

      1. Ability to develop and carry out productive research through a
      series of related field and laboratory studies using geologic mapping
      as a tool to advance understanding of the dynamics of seafloor and
      coastal environmental systems.

      2. Skill in oral and written communication and interpersonal relations.

      3. Ability to prepare and publish digital seafloor and coastal zone
      geologic maps based on geologic information from a variety of sources,
      such as remotely sensed imagery, field observations, analyses or
      samples, bottom photography, geophysical profiles, and other data.

      4. Ability to use and integrate field, laboratory, and theoretical
      methods to provide new information and insights into the geologic
      character and dynamics of coastal and marine environments and apply
      such information toward addressing relevant public issues.

      5. Ability to author scientific reports that change the thinking of the
      scientific community or that change how managers deal with marine and
      coastal local issues.

      6. Knowledge to consult authoritatively with other researchers, who are
      themselves experts, managers and regulators, and the public concerning
      coastal and marine geologic research and the relevance of complex
      scientific information to issues of public interest

   Appointment/Benefits/Travel/Relocation Information

      THIS IS A PERMANENT POSITION

      This is a Full-Time position.

   Conditions of Employment

      Selectee will be required to complete Executive Branch Confidential
      Financial Disclosure Report, OGE-450 and a supplemental Department of
      the Interior Form, DI-1993.

      As a condition of employment, male applicants born after December 31,
      1959, must certify that they have registered with the Selective Service
      System, or are exempt from having to do so under the Selective Service
      Law.

      A background security investigation will be required for all new hires.
      Appointment will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of
      a background security investigation and favorable adjudication. Failure
      to successfully meet these requirements will be grounds for
      termination.

      Before being hired, you will be required to sign and certify the
      accuracy of the information in your application, if you have not done
      this using an application form such as the OF-612.

      If you make a false statement in any part of your application, you may
      not be hired, you may be fired after you begin work, or you may be
      subject to fine, imprisonment, or other disciplinary action.

   Basis of Rating

      Applicants' experience and education will be rated against the job
      elements listed. Numerical ratings will be assigned to eligible
      applicants. Best qualified applicants will be referred to the selecting
      official in score order.

      The information provided in the KSA responses will be heavily relied
      upon in the rating process. Applicants must prepare a concise narrative
      addressing EACH of the KSAs listed. Show how your experience and/or
      education provided you with that KSA. Responses must be separate from
      the application form.

      Candidates will be rated on the basis of meeting the qualifications
      criteria stated. Only candidates meeting all of the mandatory
      qualifications will be deemed eligible for further consideration. In
      determining the degree to which candidates possess the required or
      desired knowledge, skills, and abilities, the rating panel will
      consider related experience, education, training, awards, assessments
      and appraisals, and professional references.

   How to Apply for this USGS Vacancy Announcement

      Applicants should obtain a copy of the "USGS Application Guidelines"
      for complete information on the application process and eligibility
      requirements. These guidelines are available in USGS personnel offices
      and the Internet (http://online.wr.usgs.gov/o h r/guidelns.html ).

      You may apply by submitting a Resume or an "Optional Application for
      Employment" (OF-612). Resumes must include the following information,
      in addition to specific information requested elsewhere in this
      announcement: announcement number, veterans preference, social security
      number and should include all experience, education, training,
      self-development, awards, commendations, outside activities and other
      information relevant to the vacancy.

      Applications should be sent to Julia Ainslow, U.S. Geological Survey,
      Human Resource Office 7801 Folsom Blvd. Sacramento, California 95826
      You may also fax your application package to Julia Ainslow at (916)
      379-3772.

      In addition to the standard application materials please submit the DOI
      Applicant Background Survey (http://www.doi.gov/di v
      ersity/doc/di_1935_html.htm) and the USGS Supervisory Reference Form
      (http://online.wr.usgs.gov/ohr / supref.html)

      You can download a copy of the OF-612 (Optional Application for Federal
      Employment) at (http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/OF612.h t m)

      In accordance with provisions of Public Law 105-85, The Defense
      Authorization Act of 1998, anyone who previously served on active duty
      during the Gulf War from August 2, 1990 through January 2, 1992, or in
      Bosnia during Operation Joint Endeavor (November 20, 1995 through
      December 20, 1996) and Operation Joint Guard (December 20, 1996 to be
      determined), may be entitled to Veteran's Preference. Please provide a
      copy of your DD-214 or other proof of preference when you apply under
      this vacancy announcement.

      Applications must be received in the Personnel Office by the closing
      date of the announcement to be considered.

      Applications will be accepted from non-status applicants.

      Applications from reinstatement eligibles will be accepted.

      This agency provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with
      disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation for any part of
      the application and hiring process, please notify the agency. The
      decision on granting reasonable accommodation will be on a case-by-case
      basis.

      Individuals who have special priority selection rights under the Agency
      Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) or the Interagency Career
      Transition Assistance Program (ICTAP) must be well qualified for the
      position to receive consideration for special priority selection. CTAP
      and ICTAP eligibles will be considered well qualified by meeting the
      good level on all KASOCs or the minimum numerical score established (if
      applicable).

      Federal employees seeking CTAP/ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that
      they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.605 (a) for CTAP and 5 CFR
      330.704 for ICTAP. This includes a copy of the agency notice, a copy of
      their most recent Performance Rating and a copy of their most recent
      SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location. Please
      annotate your application to reflect that you are applying as a CTAP or
      ICTAP eligible.

      Department of the Interior (DOI) Career Transition Assistance Plan
      (CTAP) procedures apply in filling this vacancy. 5 CFR 330, Career
      Transition Assistance for Surplus and Displaced Federal Employees
      requires the following order of selection for this position:
      (a) At Bureau Option, Internal (within Interior) personnel actions not
      covered by SSP/CTAP (listed in 5 CFR 330.606(d) of the CTAP
      regulations).
      (b) Internal selections from within a bureau and the same LCA after
      eligible SSP applicants from within that bureau and LCA have been given
      selection priority.
      (c) Well-qualified DOI SSP candidates for any vacancy within the local
      commute area (LCA). A well-qualified SSP eligible must be selected
      unless that selection would cause another employee to be separated by
      RIF. Surplus and displaced employees may be selected without regard to
      tenure/subgroup order.
      (d) At bureau option, Internal actions not subject to the RPL (for
      example, any competitive/noncompetitive action on a permanent DOI
      employee).
      (e) Qualified RPL candidates in the local commuting area.
      (f) At bureau discretion, any former displaced well-qualified DOI
      employee, including a well-qualified RPL candidate from outside the
      local commuting area who applies.
      (g) Well-qualified displaced applicants from other Federal agencies
      (ICTAP applicants) in the local commuting area. To be considered as an
      ICTAP applicant, candidates must submit proof of eligibility at the
      time of application(e.g., copy of RIF separation notice, proposed
      removal for declining a directed reassignment outside of the LCA, or
      official personnel action or other official notification that made them
      eligible for ICTAP consideration.)
      (h) Other outside applicants (other agencies, nonstatus, etc.) .

   Miscellaneous Information

      Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses will not be paid by the
      Federal Government. Any travel, transportation and relocation expenses
      associated with reporting for duty in this position will be the
      responsibility of the selected employee.

      Employees who received a buyout and subsequently return to positions in
      Federal agencies, whether by re-employment or contract for personal
      services, are generally obligated to repay the full amount of the
      buyout to the agency that paid it.

      Your social security number is requested under the authority of
      Executive Order 9397 to uniquely identify your records from those of
      other applicants who may have the same name. As allowed by law or
      Presidential directive, your SSN is used to seek information about you
      from employers, schools, banks, and others who may know you. Failure to
      provide your SSN on your application materials will result in your
      application not being processed.

      If claiming 5 points veterans' preference, a DD-214 must be submitted.
      If claiming 10 points veterans' preference, both a DD-214 and SF-15
      must be submitted. Additional information on veterans' preference is
      available in the Vet's Guide that can be found at
      http://www.opm.gov/vetera n s/html/vetguide.htm.

      We strongly encourage your completion and submission of Form-1935 with
      your application for employment. Your submission of this form is
      essential to determining the adequacy and effectiveness of our
      recruitment programs.

   For More Information Contact:

      Julia Ainslow
      650-329-4110
      U.S. Geological Survey
      Personnel Office
      7801 Folsom Blvd
      Suite 103
      Sacramento, CA 94025
      jainslow@usgs.gov

      The USGS is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Recruitment methods and
      selection procedures will be based solely on merit after fair and open
      competition, and will be made without regard to political, religious,
      or labor organization affiliation or nonaffiliation, marital status,
      race, color, sex, national origin, non-disqualifying disability, sexual
      orientation, or age.

                                    Print

     PRINT INFO:
     Most web browsers support an option to print the document that is
     displayed on the screen. Simply choose the option to print the
     document (usually located under the file option) and then choose the
     option to print. How the document prints is dependent on the printer
     you are using.

     If you are on a local area network (LAN) then you may need to select
     a printer before you can print. An option to do this is normally
     available in the same area that you choose to print a document.

     You will also need to make sure that the printer is powered on, "on
     line", and has paper available to print on.

   TOP

   Job Openings | USAJOBS By Email | Resume Builder | Online Application |
                      Site Survey | General Information
