http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/federalpayments.html

   [USEMAP:headfedpayments.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                                  VISION:
   Provide All Federal Payments Using Electronic Funds Transfer by 1999
                              Full statement

      Speeding the Way to an NIH Grant
      [clock2.gif] For decades, scientists waited a year to get a grant from
      the National Institutes of Health. In recent years, the National
      Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, one of 18 NIH Institutes,
      built three systems, using Internet-based technology that will merge
      with NIH efforts to create electronic commerce. They've slashed the
      processing time to 4 or 5 months for certain grants. The grand vision
      is a mere 3 months from start to finish for 30,000 grant applications a
      year.

      Time Saving Electronic Payments Benefit Defense Contractors
      [edix.gif] The Defense Contract Management Command (DCMC) is working
      aggressively to increase the use of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI),
      and is supporting other Defense organizations in the use of other EDI
      invoicing methods for public vouchers and commercial invoices. DCMC
      recently unveiled the Web Invoicing System. WInS allows contractors to
      sign on to a secure web page, enter the invoice data, and send it on
      its way.

      We're Looking for Stories

      Federal workers are doing amazing things to deliver government services
      electronically. Access America E-Gov E-Zine wants to tell these
      stories.

      We are looking for stories about federal agencies, or multi-agency
      partnerships, that are using information technology to provide federal
      payments using Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).

      These stories can be short, as in a "byte" of about 150 words, or they
      can be longer feature stories. Write feature stories in plain language
      with quotes from customers who experience the service electronically
      and quotes from federal employees and their partners who deliver the
      service.

      Include a contact person with phone number and email address. Send your
      stories to pat.wood@npr.gov or pat.smith@gsa.gov. If you need more
      information, call Pat Wood, National Partnership for Reinventing
      Government, (202) 694-0063. Please pass this request along to others
      who may be interested.
