http://www.la.nrcs.usda.gov/Public%20Information/Teachers-Students/students.htm


   Severe erosion site improved with grassed waterway conservation measure
   Louisiana - USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Is conservation
   worth it? You bet it is!

                       louisiana gif.GIF (2888 bytes)
      Every day, NRCS keeps its commitment to protecting and conserving
                natural resources on America's private lands.


   [ISMAP:row_of_vert_grn_buttons_7-27-01.gif]-Click on area of interest
   Send mail to the Louisiana WebmasterPlease send us your comments
   regarding this web site.

   Teachers and Students!

                  Check out these Great Places to Visit for
                           Teachers and Students:
   [ISMAP:animated_of_special_interest_new.gif]-Of Special Interest -
   Click on your area of interest
   Some reference links specifically for Kids S.K. Worm answers students
   questions about soil
   Download actual speeches from Hugh Hammond Bennett, the Father of the
   Soil Conservation Service One of the most widely used conservation and
   environmental education programs among educators of students in
   kindergarten through high school

   An award-winning, interdisciplinary environmental education program for
   educators working with students in PreK through grade 12
   Classroom-ready teaching aids for water resources Bringing conservation
   from the countryside to your backyard
   For additional information, check out these sites:
   What is NRCS?  Presentations
   News Releases New Publications

   For more information on NRCS programs and activities, contact:
   Herb Bourque
   State Public Affairs Specialist
   (318) 473-7762
   Holly Martien
   Public Affairs Specialist
   (318) 473-7753
   Paul Wallace
   Visual Information Specialist
   (318) 473-7778

    The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
    all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
      origin, sex, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
     orientation, or marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
        apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
    alternative means for communication of program information (Braille,
    large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at
                        202-720-2600 (voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
    Civil Rights, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, 1400 Independence Avenue,
    SW, Washington, DC, 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or TDD).
       USDA is an equal employment opportunity provider and employer.
