http://www.avs.osmre.gov/WhatisAVS.htm

   What is the Applicant/Violator System?

   One of the underlying principles in the Surface Mining Act is that
   those who benefit from mining are responsible for returning the land
   and water to productive use as mining is completed. Section 510(c) of
   the Act prohibits the issuance of new permits to applicants who are
   responsible for outstanding violations until those violations are
   corrected.

   After passage of the Act, portions of the industry were still evading
   compliance of SMCRA by employing contract miners to assume all
   liabilities, moving from state to state and leaving unabated violations
   behind, and by forming new corporations that were severely
   undercapitalized or concealing assets. There was no established way for
   States to determine what, if any violations, were occurring nationwide.

   In 1981, environmental groups brought a lawsuit against the Secretary
   of the Interior alleging a systemic nationwide failure to enforce
   SMCRA, primarily section 510(c). As part of a settlement agreement to
   resolve these suits, OSM was required to implement section 510(c) of
   SMCRA by establishing and maintaining a nationwide computerized system
   that would be used by regulatory authorities to match new permit
   applicants to outstanding violations. This computer system became known
   as the Applicant/Violator System (AVS).

   The primary purpose of AVS is to provide regulatory authorities with a
   centrally maintained database of information to evaluate an applicant's
   mining history, including the applicant's relationship to past
   operations. AVS contains violation records as well as information on
   ownership and control of mining operations. By checking the AVS during
   the review of permit applications, regulatory authorities can determine
   whether an applicant is entitled to a permit. AVS is also checked prior
   to awarding abandoned mine land (AML) reclamation contracts.

   Customer Assistance
   The Lexington Applicant/Violator System Office is committed to
   providing excellent customer service to those who use the
   Applicant/Violator System. The AVS Office offers a variety of customer
   services which include: providing assistance to State and Federal
   permitting authorities, handling system problems, assisting with
   hardware and software support, assisting users on the interpretation of
   AVS data and its results, proposing system modifications based on user
   feedback, and responding to claims that information contained in the
   AVS is erroneous or that findings by OSM based on information in AVS
   are in error. Specialized services are listed below.

   How do I Access the AVS?

   We offer the public two ways to access the Applicant/Violator System
   database. The preferred option is through a personal computer connected
   to the Internet using communications software distributed by OSM. To
   obtain a copy of our software and instructions for installation, please
   make a request to Michael Staples at mstaples@osmre.gov and provide the
   following information:

   Name:
   Company Name:
   Postal Address:
   Email Address:
   Telephone:

   You may also make a request by calling 1-800-643-9748. Technical
   assistance is available Monday-Friday between the hours of 9:00-4:00
   p.m. Eastern Standard Time.

   For those customers who do not have Internet access, we can assist you
   with locating an OSM Office nearest you to inquire about procedures and
   hours available to use a computer.

   Training

   Do you have users who need some specialized AVS training? Classes are
   offered periodically in our Lexington office and at various sites
   throughout the coalfields. To request training, contact Debbie Feheley
   at (800) 643-9748 or email dfeheley@osmre.gov.
   Investigative

   Do you have a unique ownership/control situation where investigative
   assistance is needed? Contact Sherry Wilson at (800) 643-9748 or email
   swilson@osmre.gov.
   Permit Eligibility

   Is your company eligible to receive surface mining permits? We would be
   happy to check our system to determine permit eligibility for you or
   provide assistance on resolving problems to avoid permitting delays.
   Contact Amy Willoughby at (800) 643-9748 or email
   awilloughby@osmre.gov.
   Ad Hoc Reports

   Would a specialized report from AVS data assist in implementation of
   your program? Contact Chuck DeVinney at (800) 643-9748 or email
   cdevinney@osmre.gov.

   If you require any other type of assistance from us, you may direct
   your request to Debbie Feheley at (800) 643-9748 or email
   dfeheley@osmre.gov.

                         Return to AVS Homepage                         OSM Home
page
