http://spacescience.nasa.gov/news/index.htm

   NASA - Space Science graphic with planets and solar systems
   NASA Logo

   News   Recent News Get News By Email Old News
   * Home
   * Images
   * Missions
   * News / Email
   * Education
   * SpaceKids
   * Administration
   * Committees
   * FAQ's
   * Research
     Solicitations

   Curator: Craig Tupper
   NASA Privacy & Accessibility Statement

   Our missions and research generate a lot of exciting news. You can get
   free weekly news updates by sending a blank e-mail to
   oss-update-subscribe@yahoogroups.com. Over 12,000 people are currently
   subscribed to this service. To learn more, click here.

   Recent News

   January 23

   Larger than a football field and flying near the edge of space, a NASA
   scientific balloon has set a new flight record of almost 32 days after
   completing two orbits around the South Pole. The record-breaking
   balloon carried the Trans-Iron Galactic Element Recorder (TIGER)
   experiment, designed to search for the origin of cosmic rays.

   Galileo was out of action briefly last week as it swung by Io, but now
   it's back in business.

   Cornell University and the Comet Nucleus Tour (CONTOUR) mission team
   invite teachers and students to participate in the CONTOUR launch
   activities at Cape Canaveral, Florida, in July of 2002 by developing a
   plan to share their excitement and experiences with their community.
   CONTOUR is a NASA Discovery mission that will launch in July 2002 to
   study comets in unprecedented detail. U.S. students in grades 5 through
   12 and their teachers are eligible to participate. All proposals must
   be received by March 31, 2002.

   January 17

   Recently we gave approval to our New Millennium Space Technology 5
   demonstration mission to proceed into design and development.

   January 16

   Our Galileo orbiter will dart past Jupiter's moon Io tomorrow in the
   veteran spacecraft's last and closest flyby of any of the giant
   planet's four major moons.

   Flight controllers for our Mars Odyssey spacecraft have sent commands
   to raise the spacecraft up out of Mars' atmosphere and conclude the
   aerobraking phase of the mission. The science mission is expected to
   begin in late February.

   Robots that melt their way through ice may one day explore below frozen
   surfaces of other worlds, based on a pioneering version that
   successfully bored into an Arctic glacier in an adventurous field test.

   January 10

   Studies of Hubble's deepest views of the heavens lead to the
   preliminary conclusion that the universe made a significant portion of
   its stars in a torrential firestorm of star birth, which abruptly lit
   up the pitch-dark heavens just a few hundred million years after the
   "big bang".

   Our Chandra X-ray Observatory has made a stunning, high-energy panorama
   of the central regions of our Milky Way galaxy. The findings are an
   important step toward understanding the most active area of the Milky
   Way as well as other galaxies throughout the universe.

   The discoveries of a brown dwarf and a circumstellar disk make it
   increasing likely that telescopes will soon be able to directly observe
   Jupiter-sized planets orbiting other stars, astronomers said Monday.

   Although scientists have believed for some time that most gamma-ray
   bursts are very distant, a NASA scientist has discovered 100 of them
   that are quite "local," within 325 million light years from Earth.

   A young star is apparently blasting high-speed gas jets from its poles,
   carving a void through the dense molecular cloud that was its
   birthplace. The observation indicates that stellar jets are more common
   and last longer than supposed.

   In research that may help reveal how planets form, astronomers have
   gathered evidence that a shock is created when material falls in toward
   a dust disk around a growing star.

   Evolutionary "Speed Limit" Governs How Quickly Life Bounces Back After
   Extinction

   Burt Edelson, who directed the Office of Space Science from 1982 to
   1986, died on January 6.

   January 8

   Relics of an ancient eruption that tore through a cluster of galaxies
   were recently uncovered by our Chandra X-ray Observatory. The discovery
   implies that galaxy clusters are the sites of enormously energetic and
   recurring explosions.

   Like a hyperactive child, the Universe had an energetic youth,
   according to a new result using data from the Two-Micron All Sky Survey
   (2MASS).

   Scientists using RXTE see a few glitches in an otherwise flawless spin
   of a pulsar, revealing the strange physics of the high-pressure
   interior of the pulsar.

   NASA scientists using the Chandra X-ray Observatory have measured the
   distribution of dark matter in an elliptical galaxy and found that this
   mysterious substance exists in high concentrations throughout most of
   galaxy. The finding narrows the field of candidate theories that can
   explain dark matter.

   We have terminated the FAME mission due to projected cost increases
   uncovered during mission studies.

   January 2

   Flight controllers of our 2001 Mars Odyssey mission report that the
   aerobraking phase is proceeding right on schedule and should be
   completed in early January.

   NASA and its corporate partners will support robotics education for
   about 200 high schools in 2002 by sponsoring teams that will
   participate in a national robotics competition. We here in the Office
   of Space Science coordinate NASA's involvement in this program.

   Our Mars Exploration program, Hubble Space Telescope, Submillimeter
   Wave Astronomy Satellite, Near-Earth Asteroid Rendezvous, and Deep
   Space 1 missions, as well as research into extrasolar planets and
   astrobiology, are featured in this year's edition of NASA's 2001
   highlights.

   December 26

   Last Friday we selected two new Discovery missions. The missions are
   Dawn, slated for launch in 2006, which will orbit the two largest
   asteroids in our solar system, and Kepler, a spaceborne telescope, also
   scheduled for launch in 2006, which will search for Earth-like planets
   around nearby stars.

   The long-duration balloon experiment TIGER, designed to study cosmic
   rays, was successfully launched from Antarctica on December 20. If the
   payload and balloon are performing well at the end of the first
   circumnavigation, estimated to take 10 - 12 days, a second
   circumnavigation is planned. This would be the first attempt for a
   second "orbit" in the 11 years since our first flight in Antarctica.
   You can follow the track of the flight online.

   On December 14 the Japanese/U.S. Yohkoh spacecraft stopped taking data.
   Efforts to recover the spacecraft continue.

   December 19

   Hot Galactic Arms Point To Vicious Cycle -- Chandra's image of the
   elliptical NGC 4636 shows spectacular symmetric arms, or arcs, of hot
   gas extending 25,000 light years into a huge cloud of
   multimillion-degree-Celsius gas that envelopes the galaxy. An explosion
   with an energy equivalent to several hundred thousand supernovae would
   be required to produce this effect.

   A discovery by a NASA scientist of sugar and several related organic
   compounds in two carbonaceous meteorites provides the first evidence
   that another fundamental building block of life on Earth may have come
   from outer space.

   All-Terrain Rovers May Scale Mars' Cliffs - potential future rover
   designs under study

   December 18

   Quick-look data from our Mars Odyssey spacecraft reveals big hydrogen
   deposits, possibly indicating extensive water ice.

   End of the Universe Frozen in Time - new calculations about how it's
   going to fade away, billions of years from now...

   December 17

   Our Deep Space 1 mission, which successfully tested 12 high-risk,
   advanced space technologies and captured the best images ever taken of
   a comet, will come to an end tomorrow, Dec. 18, 2001.

   December 14

   Science operations for our Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer
   (FUSE) mission ceased on Dec. 10 when the second of four reaction
   wheels, used to precisely point and maintain the spacecraft's attitude,
   stopped. We're optimistic that we'll be able to return it to action in
   a few weeks.

   December 12

   A couple of new studies suggest that dark matter is spread around the
   Universe in about the same way as regular matter.

   Jupiter's Io Generates Power and Noise, But No Magnetic Field

   December 10

   Cluster Listens to Radio Earth and Observes Invisible Auroras

   Fantastic Voyage Inside the Sun Reveals Hidden World of Surprising
   Complexity - SOHO results

   Slippery Surface of Europa Slides, Migrates around Moon

   Astronomers Unveil First Detection of Dark Matter Object in the Milky
   Way -- they found a MACHO, and it turned out to be a wimpy star...

   December 7

   Our TIMED spacecraft was successfully launched this morning! Everything
   looks good so far.

   Mars Global Surveyor Sees Possible Climate Change on Mars - news from
   the camera on MGS

   First Measurements of Seasonal Snow Depth on Mars - news from the laser
   altimeter on MGS

   A new NASA computer climate model reinforces the long-standing theory
   that low solar activity could have changed the atmospheric circulation
   in the Northern Hemisphere from the 1400's to the 1700's and triggered
   a "Little Ice Age".

   Genesis Spacecraft Begins Mission to Collect Samples of the Sun -
   sample collectors opened December 3

   November 30

   NASA scientists have strung together images of comet Borrelly to
   produce short movies of the comet as it travels through space.

   A recent image from our Galileo spacecraft adds evidence to a theory
   that Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four large moons, may hold an
   underground ocean.

   During the 2001 Leonid meteor storm, astronomers observed a curious
   flash on the Moon -- a telltale sign of meteoroids hitting the lunar
   surface and exploding.

   November 29

   We have selected a proposal to proceed with preliminary design studies
   for a Pluto-Kuiper Belt (PKB) mission.

   Scientists have captured the first X-ray view of Venus using our
   Chandra X-ray Observatory. The observations provide new information
   about the atmosphere of Venus and open a new window for examining
   Earth's sister planet.

   Mars could have been born with more water in proportion to its mass
   than the Earth, according to new observations from our Far Ultraviolet
   Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE) spacecraft.

   A slumping cliff, migrating eruptions and churning lava lakes appear in
   new images of Jupiter's sizzling moon Io from our Galileo spacecraft.

   November 27

   Hubble Makes First Direct Measurements of Atmosphere on World Around
   Another Star - way cool

   Students in schools worldwide are anticipating the next space shuttle
   mission, scheduled for launch Thursday, as their experiments, including
   another Starshine satellite, venture into space.

   Analyses Show Water Stayed On Mars Longer Than Previously Thought

   Mars Global Surveyor snaps 100,000th picture

   A new study suggests that the absorption and re-absorption of sunlight
   over millions or billions of years could be responsible for nudging
   asteroids into near-Earth orbits.

   November 26

   How would our Sun behave differently if it had a closely orbiting twin?
   While astronomers don't know the exact answer, our Chandra X-ray
   Observatory has observed an intriguing star system that is beginning to
   provide important clues.

   Mysterious clouds of gas falling towards the Sun have been spotted with
   the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) spacecraft.

   NASA Spacecraft to Hunt for Elusive Gravity Ripples - Cassini isn't
   just for Saturn anymore!

   Our Thermosphere, Ionosphere, Mesosphere, Energetics and Dynamics
   (TIMED) mission will soon reveal the well-kept secrets of a mysterious
   region situated 40 to 110 miles (about 60 to 180 kilometers) above the
   Earth called the Mesosphere and Lower Thermosphere/Ionosphere (MLTI),
   where electrical currents surge and auroras cast an eerie glow over the
   Northern and Southern hemispheres. TIMED will uncover the mysteries of
   this region by producing the very first set of comprehensive, global
   measurements of the MLTI. TIMED is scheduled to launch Dec. 7.

   On November 16, our Genesis spacecraft entered perfectly into orbit
   around the balanced-gravity point Lagrange 1, where it will collect
   solar wind particles.

   On November 24, 2001, a group of researchers began a two month
   expedition to Antarctica in search of clues to the origins of the solar
   system, the planets, and possibly life on Mars. For the first time in
   its 25 years of existence the US Antarctic Search for Meteorites team
   has the ability to interact with the outside world via satellite phone,
   and you can follow their progress.

   November 16

   Along with the European Space Agency, we are performing tests of the
   communications system between our Cassini Saturn orbiter and the ESA
   Huygens Titan probe.

   The brightening and dimming of the sun may account for a 1,500-year
   cycle of cooling and warming on parts of the Earth.

   Our Genesis spacecraft will fire its engine today to enter its primary
   science orbit.

   NASA is doing several things related to this weekend's Leonid meteor
   shower.

   November 13

   Sky survey lowers estimate of asteroid impact risk

   Volcanoes Still Active on Mars? New Evidence for Ongoing Volcanism and
   Water Release

   Discovery of Buried Impact Craters on Mars Widens Possibility of an
   Ancient Martian Ocean

   We have selected 10 scientific investigations for the 2005 Mars
   Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) mission.

   NASA's 2002 Budget appropriation has been passed by both houses of
   Congress, and is headed to the President for signature. The major
   feature of the budget bill in regards to Space Science is inclusion of
   FY 2002 funds for a mission to Pluto.

   November 7

   The afterglow of a gamma ray burst, first detected by our HETE
   satellite, has been seen in x-ray, optical, and radio wavelengths.

   We have released a Request for Information seeking information from
   potential responders concerning the best method to support the
   reproduction and dissemination of our hardcopy (i.e., paper or similar
   medium) education and public outreach products.

   November 6

   Using data from SOHO, scientists now have the first clear picture of
   what lies beneath sunspots, and have peered inside the Sun to see
   swirling flows of electrified gas or plasma that create a
   self-reinforcing cycle, which holds a sunspot together.

   The most powerful explosions in the universe, gamma-ray bursts, may
   come with a 10-second warning: an equally violent burst of
   ultra-high-energy particles called neutrinos.

   First Estimate of the Formation Temperature of Ammonia Ice in a Comet -
   suggesting that the comet was formed between the orbits of Saturn and
   Uranus in the primordial Solar System nebula

   October 31

   Mars Odyssey is doing well and still aerobraking following its arrival
   at Mars last week. The first image of Mars from Odyssey has been
   released.

   October 30

   $10 Million NSF Grant to Fund "National Virtual Observatory"

   October 29

   On Oct 28, twenty eight years after launch, IMP-8, NASA's oldest
   operating mission, terminated operations.

   October 25

   ISO finds 30 'failed stars' in nearby stellar nursery

   Scientists using our Polar spacecraft have captured the first-ever
   movie of auroras dancing simultaneously around both of Earth's polar
   regions.

   October 24

   Yessss! 2001 Mars Odyssey fired its engine and went into orbit around
   Mars last night!

   Astronomers using the Chandra X-ray Observatory have found a pulsar at
   the center of the exploded remains of a 1,600-year-old supernova.

   Celera Genomics Group is licensing OPUS, a software package used to
   process astronomical data generated by the Hubble Space Telescope, to
   assist in the processing of data from their biological research
   projects.

   October 22

   Once again this year we are supporting the Leonid Multi-Instrument
   Aircraft Campaign, to study the Leonid meteor shower on November 17/18
   using instrumented aircraft.

   Astronomers have found gas between the densely packed stars that make
   up the globular cluster, 47 Tucanae. For over 40 years, astronomers
   have looked for gas in these clusters without success.

   Scientists using XMM have, for the first time, seen energy being
   extracted from a black hole.

   October 19

   We have posted three essays covering the history of NASA's Space
   Science program from the 1940s to present.

   X-Ray Emissions Detected from Elusive Cosmic Objects -- Chandra
   confirms that Herbig-Haro objects result from high-speed collisions of
   gas near newborn stars

   October 17

   Launch of HESSI, most recently scheduled for November, has been delayed
   again due to launch vehicle concerns.

   October 15

   M31: Closer Look Reveals Andromeda's Black Hole Not As "Cool" As
   Believed - Chandra results

   Soil collected on the moon by Apollo 17 astronaut Eugene Cernan nearly
   30 years ago has helped researchers uncover new details about the
   workings of the sun.

   For the second time in its 11-year lifetime, the ESA/NASA Ulysses
   spacecraft has flown over the Sun's north pole.

   An international team of astronomers has discovered eight new
   extrasolar planets, bringing to nearly 80 the number of planets found
   orbiting nearby stars. The latest discoveries uncovered more evidence
   of planets with circular orbits similar to the orbits of planets in our
   solar system.

   Galileo will be skimming over Io's surface again tomorrow.

   Following a planned course correction on October 11, our 2001 Mars
   Odyssey spacecraft is now on target to enter Martian orbit later this
   month.

   Mars Global Surveyor and the Hubble Space Telescope are giving
   astronomers a ringside seat to the biggest global dust storm seen on
   Mars in several decades.

   October 11

   We have selected three advanced technologies and providers for ST6, our
   next New Millennium Program test flight project. The technologies will
   fly on three different spacecraft in 2004.

   October 10

   A new study suggests that an enormous ancient drainage basin and
   aquifer system lies hidden and deformed in one of the most geologically
   dynamic landscapes on Mars.

   October 9

   A very small, faint galaxy -- possibly one of the long sought "building
   blocks" of present-day galaxies -- has been discovered by a
   collaboration between our Hubble Space Telescope and the 10-meter Keck
   Telescopes, at a tremendous distance of 13.4 billion light-years (based
   on the estimate of 14 billion years as the age of the universe).

   Jupiter's moon Io has pulled a surprise on our Galileo spacecraft,
   hurling up the tallest volcanic plume ever seen, which arose from a
   previously unknown volcano.

   The Making of Jupiter's Moons: A Slow Process

   October 4

   NASA Selects Spacecraft Contractor for 2005 Mars Mission

   October 2

   After its three-month journey in space, our Microwave Anisotropy Probe
   (MAP) has moved into its new home a million miles from Earth and is
   ready to chart the oldest light in the cosmos.

   A project to determine the nature of dark matter in the halo of the
   Milky Way has yielded a treasure trove of data on 73 million stars,
   many of them variable.

   Bacterial Communities Found to Follow Water - Implications for Mars?

   Researchers Find Glass-eating Microbes at the Rock Bottom of the Food
   Chain
