http://www.vamhcs.med.va.gov/perry/perry.htm

   Perry Point VA Medical Center Blank image

                                      Working Together for a Healthier You

   VA Maryland Health Care System
   Navigation Image Map

                                                           skip navigation

                                                                  Downtown
                                                                 Baltimore

   Fort Howard

   Perry Point

   Loch Raven

   Outpatient
   Clinics

   Eligibilty &
   Enrollment

   Important
   Phone Numbers

   Statistics &
   Workload

   Academic
   Affilation

   Management
   Directory

   Home Page

   [BLANK.GIF]
   Perry Point VA Medical Center
   Perry Point, Maryland 21902
   Phone: 1-800-949-1003; Medical Benefits/Eligibility: 1-800-949-1003,
   ext. 5018

   The Perry Point Medical Center is a leader in providing comprehensive
   mental health care to veterans. The medical center offers long and
   short-term inpatient mental health care, including an inpatient alcohol
   and substance abuse treatment program that is unique in the
   Mid-Atlantic region. A new inpatient mental health care facility offers
   specialized treatment programs, rehabilitation services, and enhanced
   patient privacy for veterans in a comfortable, state-of-the-art
   setting. The medical center also offers a full range of inpatient
   medical, intermediate, and long-term care programs, including a nursing
   home and a specialized unit for patients with Alzheimer's disease.
   A newly renovated 50-bed domiciliary care program helps to rehabilitate
   homeless veterans through counseling, job assistance, and home
   placement. An inpatient medical unit specifically designed for women
   veterans, offers private accommodations and services to Maryland's
   female veterans. The Perry Point Medical Center offers primary care and
   specialty outpatient services in a new outpatient care facility that
   was designed and constructed to better meet the needs of our veteran
   patients by providing the latest medical technology, expanded clinical
   space, and comfortable waiting areas and exam rooms.

                                                       Back to top of page

   Programs and Services
   Specialized programs and services include:
     * primary care services through a team approach
     * a home-based primary care program
     * a variety of community based health care programs
     * a women veterans evaluation and treatment program
     * computed axial tomography (CAT) scan
     * a medical intensive care unit
     * respite care
     * hospice care, with accommodations for visiting family members
     * a geriatric evaluation and management unit
     * a domiciliary care program for homeless veterans
     * acute, intermediate, and long-term inpatient mental health care
     * an intensive psychiatric community care program
     * an Alzheimer's care unit
     * an inpatient and outpatient substance abuse treatment program

                                                       Back to top of page

   Click here for primary care teams.

                                                       Back to top of page

   Directions to the Perry Point VA Medical Center:

   To reach the Perry Point Medical Center, you need to remember only a
   few simple directions. From Interstate 95, take exit 93 for Route 222
   East towards Perryville. Take Route 222 for approximately two miles
   until it ends and turn right onto Broad Street. Take Broad Street
   through the town of Perryville until you come to the entrance of the
   medical center. Follow the signage on the grounds of the medical center
   to the appropriate building.

Medical Center Address:


    VA Maryland Health Care System
    Perry Point Medical Center
    Perry Point, Maryland 21902

Medical Center Phone Number:

   The phone number for the Perry Point VA Medical Center is (410)
   642-2411 and the toll free number 1-800-949-1003.

   Back to top of page



   If you have trouble accessing information on this site, please contact
                                     the
      webmaster (vamhcswebmaster@med.va.gov) or call Regina DeSimone at
                        410-605-7000, extension 6718.
