http://ohrp.osophs.dhhs.gov/humansubjects/qip/qipdesc.pdf

   Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) Division of Assurances and
   Quality Improvement Quality Improvement Program December 4, 2001 The
   Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) is pleased to announce
   that it is launching a Quality Improvement (QI) Program intended to
   help institutions evaluate and improve the quality of their human
   subjects protection program. The program will be made available to
   institutions and institutional review boards (IRBs) on a voluntary
   basis starting January 2002. Information regarding the OHRP QI Program,
   including its objectives, format, and request process, will be made
   available later this month on the OHRP website at:
   http://ohrp.osophs.dhhs.gov. Background OHRP recognizes that
   institutions and their human subjects protection programs face enormous
   challenges with the administration, review, and conduct of human
   subjects research. These challenges include ensuring that research
   activities are conducted not only in a manner which complies with
   federal regulations for the protection of human subjects, but also
   meets ever evolving ethical standards due to advances in technology and
   medical science. Over the past several years, institutions and IRBs
   have faced scrutiny and/or criticism from the public, media, and the
   federal government's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) and the
   General Accounting Office (GAO). Such criticism includes the failure
   to: 1) obtain prospective IRB approval, 2) minimize risks for subjects,
   3) obtain legally effective informed consent, 4) provide oversight or
   adequate continuing review of human subjects research, and 5) eliminate
   or minimize conflicts of interest. Additionally, upon investigating
   allegations of noncompliance at institutions, the OHRP Division of
   Compliance Oversight has found, on numerous occasions, systemic
   deficiencies in human subjects protection programs. As a result of the
   increased scrutiny in the conduct of human subjects research and the
   discovery of incidents of noncompliance with federal regulations and
   ethical standards resulting in harms to human subjects, public trust in
   our Nation's human research enterprise is at risk. OHRP plans to work
   together with all components of our Nation's research enterprise (e.g.,
   institutions, IRBs, investigators, and sponsors) to strengthen our
   Nation's IRB infrastructure. In an effort to strengthen individual
   institution's human subjects protection programs, the OHRP Division of
   Assurances and Quality Improvement (DAQI) has developed a QI Program
   for human subjects protection programs. The QI program is intended for
   human subjects protection programs at institutions that conduct
   biomedical, social, or behavioral research, as well as independent
   IRBs. Objectives The primary purpose of the QI Program is to increase
   the quality, performance, and efficiency of an institution's human
   subjects protection program. Secondarily, the QI Program is designed to
   help institutions ensure compliance with federal regulations for the
   protection of human subjects in research. The QI Program will
   facilitate an institution's efforts to achieve program accreditation by
   complimentary private-sector entities. Description of the QI Program
   The QI Program will include three components or stages: 1) Quality
   Assurance, 2) Quality Improvement, and 3) Continuous Quality
   Improvement. Through the QI Program, DAQI includes processes such as
   assessment, instruction, education, and sharing of best practices. 1)
   Quality Assurance (QA) The first component will provide activities
   intended to promote a solid foundation for a human subjects protection
   program. Before a program can be improved, one needs to provide an
   assessment of the program's strengths and weaknesses. During this
   stage, DAQI will offer quality assurance by guiding institutions in
   conducting a self assessment. To facilitate this process, DAQI has
   developed a self- assessment tool, that can be utilized by institutions
   and independent IRBs. The self-assessment tool is primarily intended to
   gauge an institution's compliance with the federal regulations for
   human subjects protection. Additionally, a review of the human subjects
   protection program's operating procedures by DAQI may occur during this
   stage. DAQI will then evaluate the assessment and interact with the
   institution via any of three modes of communication: 1) written
   correspondence and teleconference, 2) videoconference, and 3) on-site
   consultation visit. Selection of the type of interaction will be made
   by DAQI based on the need of the institution, the overall demand and
   volume of requests received, and resources available at DAQI. After
   evaluation by DAQI, the institution will be informed of any weaknesses
   or deficiencies. Education and consultation will be offered by DAQI
   staff to improve the human subjects protection program in any necessary
   area(s). The interactions between DAQI and an institution will be
   conducted in a collegial manner and the process will include mechanisms
   to protect the confidentiality of information voluntarily provided by
   the institution. 2) Quality Improvement (QI) QI will be offered by
   various means. First of all, having previously conducted QA, a certain
   level of improvement can begin from the increased awareness of existing
   processes and evaluation of operating procedures. Identifying an
   institution's strengths and weaknesses is essential in any improvement
   OHRP Assurances and Quality Improvement Division - Quality Improvement
   Program Page 2 process. Compliance with the federal regulations for the
   protection of human subjects inherently provides a certain level of
   quality. However, compliance with these regulations does not
   necessarily mean that human research will be reviewed or conducted with
   a high degree of quality. Therefore, the QI process will focus on
   mechanisms by which a human subjects protection program can improve its
   functions. Initially, DAQI will offer consultation on how improvement
   can be enhanced. Best practices, procedures, and tools which can
   increase quality will be posted on the OHRP website. When DAQI finds a
   best practice at a given institution, it will be posted anonymously on
   the OHRP website if permission is granted by the institution.
   Additionally, DAQI will foster networking relationships for the sharing
   of best practices between institutions in need of guidance and
   institutions willing to provide guidance. Again, the brokering of
   networking relationships will occur only after permission is granted by
   the institutions for a specific interaction. With these approaches, the
   Nation's IRB infrastructure will be improved with the input of many
   individuals in the IRB community. In the future, DAQI will work to
   develop products or tools that may further enhance QI. 3) Continuous
   Quality Improvement (CQI) In the third component, CQI, DAQI will
   provide guidance for the development of an institution's own QA/QI
   process on a continuous basis. The ultimate goals are to have human
   subjects protection programs perform at a high level of quality and to
   assist institutions and independent IRBs in the creation of their own
   QI programs. Again, on a voluntary basis, DAQI plans to share
   strategies and information for CQI. DAQI plans to implement this last
   stage in mid to late 2002. Confidentiality Since the OHRP QI Program is
   a voluntary program, information collected under this Program can be
   determined exempt from the requirements of the Freedom of Information
   Act (FOIA). Under exemption 4 of the FOIA regulations, an institution
   can choose to redact any sensitive information from release to the
   public, if the institution determines that release of such information
   to the public could cause competitive or financial harm to the
   institution. DAQI is sensitive to the potential confidentiality
   concerns an institution may have with regards to discovery of
   noncompliance. Therefore, DAQI will maintain a firewall between DAQI
   and the OHRP Division of Compliance Oversight. On the other hand, if
   DAQI discovers serious, systemic non- compliance at an institution,
   resulting in harms to subjects, DAQI may have an ethical obligation to
   report such information to the Division of Compliance Oversight. Even
   in these cases, DAQI will advise the institution to report the
   noncompliance events to the Division of Compliance Oversight in
   accordance with the reporting requirements of the federal regulations.
   OHRP Assurances and Quality Improvement Division - Quality Improvement
   Program Page 3 Initiation of Process Pilot testing of the OHRP QI
   Program began in July 2001 and pilot testing of the first component,
   QA, was concluded in November 2001. Institutions and independent IRBs
   interested on a voluntary basis to initiate the self assessment process
   may submit a request in writing to DAQI. Questions and correspondence
   regarding the QI Program should be directed to: George Gasparis
   Division of Assurances and Quality Improvement Office for Human
   Research Protections The Tower Building 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 200
   Rockville, MD 20852 (301) 402-5164 OHRP Assurances and Quality
   Improvement Division - Quality Improvement Program Page 4
