http://wwwedd.cahwnet.gov/rdsgnfaq.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   EDD HomePage
                   EDD Search
                   Subscribe
                   For Employers
                   For Small Businesses
                   Finding a Job
                   Claim Filing Information
                     Unemployment Insurance
                     Disability Insurance
                   Labor Market Information
                   Employment & Training
                   Forms & Publications
                   Programs & Services
                   News Releases
                   Department Directory
                   Related Sites
                   Veterans Services
                   Employment Development Department logo



   Employment  Development  Department



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Frequently Asked Questions

   Printer Friendly Version
   Listed below are some of the most frequently asked questions (FAQ) that
   we have received about EDD's programs and services. If you have a more
   specific question that you would like an answer to, contact us. Our
   FAQs are organized into the following categories:
   Disability Insurance
       Employment and Training
       Employment Tax
       Finding a Job
       Recruitment and Referrals
       Miscellaneous
       Unemployment Insurance
       Work Opportunity and Welfare-to-Work Tax Credit

   Disability Insurance
    1. Q. I have been working on the same job for the past two years and
       last week, while installing fans in my house, I fell off the ladder
       and broke my arms. The doctor tells me I will be out of work for at
       least six months. Is there a program that will provide me financial
       help while I am out of work?
       A. Yes, the State Disability Insurance (SDI) program is a worker
       funded program that provides benefits to an insured and eligible
       employee who suffers a wage loss and cannot work because of illness
       or injury not related to the job, including illness or injury
       resulting from pregnancy or childbirth.
    2. Q. What can I do as a business owner or a self-employed individual
       to protect myself against loss of income if I become ill or
       disabled?
       A. The Disability Insurance Elective Coverage program, administered
       by the Employment Development Department, offers business owners
       and self-employed individuals the opportunity to protect themselves
       against loss of income due to injury, pregnancy or illness, whether
       or not it is work related.
       Some requirements:
          + You must own your own business or be self-employed.
          + You must be performing your normal duties on a full-time basis
            at the time your application is submitted.
          + You must derive the major portion of your income from your
            trade, business, or occupation.
          + Your business cannot be seasonal.
          + You must stay in the program for two complete calendar years
            unless you discontinue your business or move out of
            California.
          + Benefit eligibility:
               o Generally, you must have this insurance coverage for at
                 least seven months before you are eligible to file a
                 claim.
               o Maximum benefit is $490.00 per week for up to 39 weeks.
       More FAQs on Disability Insurance

   Employment and Training
    1. Q.
       As an employer, I interview many job seekers who do not have the
       basic skills to perform the duties related to the jobs I am
       offering. Are there training programs available through the
       Employment Development Department that prepare youth and unskilled
       adults for entry into the labor force?
       A.
       Yes, the Employment Development Department performs the
       administrative control functions (e.g., funding allocations,
       compliance monitoring, etc.) for the Workforce Investment Act
       (WIA). WIA programs provide job training and direct employment
       opportunities to the local community. This includes all adults and
       youth, especially dislocated workers, public aid recipients,
       veterans, older workers, and minorities. At the local level, a
       statewide network of Local Workforce Investment Areas (LWIA)
       receive WIA funds to maintain current employment and training
       programs and to establish new programs.

   Employment Tax
    1. Q. Does EDD have seminars to help me learn more about California's
       payroll tax laws?
       A. Yes, the EDD offers free Payroll Tax Seminars to help you better
       understand the payroll tax laws.
       At our seminars, you will learn how to:
          + Prepare payroll tax returns.
          + Avoid unnecessary tax liabilities.
          + Distinguish between independent contractors and employees.
       You will also learn about:
          + New laws and emerging issues.
          + Services provided by EDD.
          + Customized topics to meet specific needs.
       If you would like to attend a seminar, please go to our seminars
       Web page. Select a seminar, then e-mail or call us for
       reservations. If you have any questions, please call our toll-free
       number 1-888-745-3886 or visit your local Employment Tax Office.
    2. Q. Where can I find a brief overview of my rights as an employer
       under the employment tax laws?
       A. The Employment Development Department (EDD) is committed to
       applying employment tax laws in an equitable and impartial manner.
       The EDD's Tax Branch has developed an Employers' Bill of Rights
       brochure to inform you of your rights during the employment
       taxation process. The brochure, DE 195, is available from your
       local Employment Tax Office. It can be ordered using the Internet
       order form, or if you prefer, you may download, view, and print the
       brochure directly from this Web site.
       More FAQs on Employment Tax

   Finding a Job
    1. Q. I have been out of work and have been looking for a job, but
       have not been able to find one. Does the Employment Development
       Department have a program or system that will help me find work?
       A. Yes, the EDD Job Service provides access to employer job
       listings and to other employment-related services provided by EDD
       and other local agencies. Job seekers can use the Internet-based
       CalJOBS to search a database of employer job listings, and can
       enter their own applications for employers to view. EDD's job
       listings are also available in the national America's Job Bank
       system, along with job openings from all other states.
    2. Q. How can I get information and an application for jobs with the
       State of California?
       A. The California State Personnel Board provides information about
       exams and civil service job openings with the State of California.
    3. Q. How can I job hunt using the Internet?
       A. The Internet is an excellent resource for jobs and employment
       information. EDD's Job Service maintains CalJOBS, which has
       thousands of jobs listed by California employers. CalJOBS also
       enables job seekers to enter their resumes for review by employers
       who are looking for qualified workers. There is also a national
       Internet system, America's Job Bank, that has employer job listings
       from all the states, including California. Many employers also have
       World Wide Web sites that include employment information. Use your
       favorite web searcher. Often you can locate an employer on the WWW
       by entering the employer name between "http://www." and ".com/".
       For example, to locate Megamedia Incorporated, try entering
       "http://www.megamedia.com/".

   Recruitment and Referrals
    1. Q. As my business expands, I need to locate qualified employees.
       How can the Employment Development Department help me?
       A. The EDD Job Service has an Internet job listing system that can
       help you. You can enter your job openings into CalJOBS. Job seekers
       can then view your job requirements and contact you in accordance
       with the instructions you provide. You can also search and review
       the database of job seeker resumes and contact those who match your
       job requirements. If you prefer, EDD can assist you with entering
       the job order and searching the database for qualified workers.
       Jobs listed in EDD's CalJOBS are also listed in the national
       Internet system, America's Job Bank.

   Miscellaneous
    1. Q. Who do I contact if I have questions about my wages, hours, or
       working conditions?
       A. The California Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) is
       responsible for all labor law issues, including the following:
       Labor Law
       - Wages, hours of work, and conditions of employment
       Workers' Compensation
       - Claims settlement, benefits and rehabilitation for job-related
       injuries and illnesses
       Occupational Safety & Health
       - Safe and healthful working conditions on the job
       Apprenticeship
       - Worksite job training to help meet skill needs of industry
       Mediation & Conciliation
       - Harmony in labor/management relations
       Statistics & Research
       - Prevailing wage determinations
    2. Q. Who do I contact about discrimination in the workplace?
       A. For assistance with discrimination complaints, contact the
       California Department of Fair Employment and Housing.

   Unemployment Insurance
    1. Q. How can I as an employer minimize my Unemployment Insurance
       contribution rate?
       A. An employer's contribution rate is based upon the ratio of the
       reserve account balance to the average base payroll. As the reserve
       account balance decreases or the average base payroll increases,
       the ratio decreases. A decrease in the ratio may result in a higher
       contribution rate.
       Employers who maintain a stable payroll and file and pay their
       taxes on time will generally have a lower Unemployment Insurance
       (UI) contribution rate. Employers who experience high turnovers or
       large fluctuations in their payroll and/or do not file and pay
       their taxes on time will generally have a higher UI contribution
       rate.
       The following are some suggestions that will help minimize UI
       contribution rates.
          + File and pay tax returns timely.
          + Work with employees to avoid layoffs and voluntary quits.
            Every separation has a potential to increase your contribution
            rate.
          + Permit leaves of absence. This helps you keep fully trained
            personnel.
          + Keep good records. Give written warnings prior to discharging
            an employee and keep a copy of these written notices and other
            supporting information to justify any action taken.
          + Conduct an exit interview. This helps you know why an employee
            is leaving and may result in changes to company policies or
            procedures that will assist you in retaining your employees.
          + Answer claim notices promptly, accurately and in detail.
          + Provide clear answers to telephone interview questions from
            EDD personnel.
    2. Q. I have recently been laid-off from a job that I have had for the
       past five years. Will I be able to receive Unemployment Insurance
       benefits?
       A. The Unemployment Insurance Program, commonly referred to as UI,
       provides weekly unemployment insurance payments for workers who
       lose their job through no fault of their own. Eligibility for
       benefits requires that you be able to work, be seeking work, and be
       willing to accept a suitable job.
       More FAQs on Unemployment Insurance

   Work Opportunity and Welfare-to-Work Tax Credit
    1. Q. Will I be able to receive a tax credit for hiring economically
       disadvantaged persons, high risk youth or qualified summer youth?
       A. Yes, under the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) program, an
       employer may receive a tax credit of up to $2,400 ($1,200 for
       summer youth) for each employee hired from a targeted group.>
       More FAQs on WOTC
          ________________________________________________________

   EDD HomePage  |  Top of Page  |  Contact Us
                            Back to Top of Page
     2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
