http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/Employment/index.html


      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   Home
                   Toxics Questions?
                   Public Notices
                   Calendar
                   Laws, Regulations, and Policies
                   Site Cleanup
                   Managing Hazardous Waste
                   Pollution Prevention
                   Science and Technology
                   News Releases
                   Publications and Forms
                   Employment
                   How to Contact DTSC
                   Department of Toxic Substances Control



   Department of Toxic Substances Control




        __________ search
   ( )  My CA (*)   This Site
           Search Tips


   DTSC: Employment

   Employment with DTSC

   Click on one of the links below to go directly to a specific topic:
   Overview
   Current Job Openings
   Current Open Examination Schedule


    Overview

   Thank you for your interest in employment with the California
   Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). DTSC protects California
   and Californians from exposures to hazardous wastes. More than 1,000
   scientists, engineers and specialized support staff work in nine
   offices statewide to:
     * Deal with the aftermath of improper hazardous waste management by
       overseeing site cleanups.
     * Prevent releases of hazardous waste by seeing that those who
       generate, handle, transport, store and dispose of wastes do so
       properly.
     * Take enforcement actions against those who fail to manage hazardous
       wastes appropriately.
     * Explore and promote means of preventing pollution, and encourage
       reuse and recycling.
     * Evaluate soil, water and air samples taken at sites, and develop
       new analytical methods.
     * Practice other environmental sciences, including toxicology, risk
       assessment and technology development.
     * Involve the public in DTSC's decision-making.

   DTSC is a department of the California Environmental Protection Agency,
   or Cal/EPA. Other Cal/EPA Boards and Departments include: the Air
   Resources Board; the State Water Resources Control Board; the
   Integrated Waste Management Board; the Department of Pesticide
   Regulation; and the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment.

   DTSC has offices in Sacramento, Berkeley, Clovis, San Diego and Los
   Angeles (Glendale and Cypress). The Department's staff include:
     * Scientists with backgrounds in environmental, biological, chemical,
       physical, soil science and environmental public health;
     * Engineers with major work in civil, mechanical, chemical,
       environmental and waste management engineering;
     * Geologists and engineering geologists;
     * Industrial Hygienists with backgrounds in environmental health,
       engineering, chemistry, biology, physics, medicine and public
       health;
     * Toxicologists with major work in toxicology, biochemistry and
       pharmacology;
     * Special investigators;
     * and a variety of administrative, management and clerical
       classifications.

   The state hiring process consists of a number of steps. You can read
   about the process in DTSC's "The Hiring Process" fact sheet. Also, you
   may want to visit the State Personnel Board web site and the California
   Department of Personnel Administration web site for more employment
   information.
   Back to Top of Page


    Current Job Openings

   Important - To compete for job openings at DTSC, unless you are a
   current or former State employee and have return rights to the job
   classification, you must have successfully passed the examination for
   the job classification and been placed on a current employment
   eligibility list. If you are not currently eligible, read our fact
   sheet, "The Hiring Process" to learn how you can become eligible.

   Click here for a listing of all open positions at DTSC (located on the
   State Personnel Board web site).


    Current Open Examination Schedule

   Job Classification Location Final Filing Date Job Specification Exam
   Bulletin
   Scientists
   Environmental Scientist (Hazardous Substances Scientist) Berkeley,
   Clovis & Sacramento offices Open/Continuous HTML Format PDF format
   Environmental Scientist (Hazardous Substances Scientist) Cypress, San
   Diego & Glendale offices Open/Continuous HTML Format PDF format
   Engineers
   Engineer (Hazardous Substances Engineer) Berkeley, Clovis & Sacramento
   offices Open/Continuous HTML Format PDF format
   Engineer (Hazardous Substances Engineer) Cypress, San Diego & Glendale
   offices Open/Continuous HTML Format PDF format
   Engineering Geologists
   Engineering Geologist (Hazardous Substances Engineering Geologist)
   Statewide Open/Continuous HTML Format PDF format
   Industrial Hygienists
   Industrial Hygienist (Assistant/Associate) Statewide Open/Continuous
   HTML Format PDF format
   Public Participation and Information
   Public Participation Specialist Statewide Open/Continuous HTML Format
   PDF format

   Link to California's Home Page Back to Top of Page Back to DTSC's Home
                 Page Link to Governor Gray Davis' Home Page

   Cal/EPA | Air Resources Board | California Integrated Waste Management
                 Board | Department of Pesticide Regulation
       Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment | State Water
                           Resources Control Board
            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
     TM/2001 Hollywood Chamber of Commerce licensed by Global Icons, Los
                   Angeles, CA 90034. All Rights Reserved.
