http://fgdc.gov/publications/exec_summary.html

   Home What's New Search NSDI Metadata Clearinghouse Standards Framework
   Stakeholders FGDC Funding Publications Data

Evaluation of FGDC's NSDI Grants Program

   PDF Version (103 KB)
   MS Word version (523 KB)

   Convert PDF to HTML

Executive Summary

   This report describes the results of a postal survey of organizations
   that applied for FGDC metadata clearinghouse grants over the period
   1994- 1999. The main goal of the survey was to evaluate the
   effectiveness of FGDC's grants program. A further goal was to compare
   the characteristics of successful versus unsuccessful applicants, as
   well as non-applicants. Key findings include the following:

   Among successful grant applicants:
     * 95% indicated that the FGDC grants program had contributed
       significantly to the success of their metadata projects.
     * post-FGDC-grant investment in project development/maintenance
       averaged $22,000 per annum per applicant.
     * more than half of the grant recipients indicated that their FGDC-
       related project had created spillovers to other organizations
       (demonstration effects were positive).
     * FGDC grants typically covered between 50-60% of project costs for
       most applicants.
     * most applicants were from the government sector, with few from the
       private sector.
     * FGDC grants were ranked highly in terms of their contribution to
       project success.
     * most grant applicants (71%) were first-time applicants.
     * all of the successful applicants have established web-based
       clearinghouses to support metadata dissemination.
     * a majority of the organizations that were surveyed intend to apply
       for FGDC funding in the future.
     * most applicants would have proceeded with their projects in the
       absence of FGDC support, albeit at a slower speed or at a reduced
       scope.
     * 32% indicated that their project would not have proceeded without
       FGDC funding (most of these applicants operate with very small GIS
       units).
     * the chief benefit of FGDC-funding is that it supports full-scale
       projects

   Among unsuccessful grant applicants:
     * unsuccessful applicants typically employed smaller numbers of GIS
       personnel than successful applicants (this contrast is
       statistically significant).
     * approximately half of the organizations that were denied FGDC
       funding proceeded with some variant of their original proposal.
     * because of their limited in-house resources (GIS expertise),
       unsuccessful applicants were more likely to seek outside help from
       professionals in other organizations, including private
       consultants, academics, and other collaborators.
     * most of the unsuccessful applicants intend to apply for FGDC
       support in the future

   Overall, the picture that emerged from our analysis can be summarized
   as follows. First, FGDC grants contribute significantly to the
   development of metadata clearinghouses among successful applicants. The
   existence of a critical mass of in-house GIS specialists appears to be
   the chief discriminator between successful versus unsuccessful
   applicants. Second, projects that were supported by FGDC were in most
   cases associated with spillovers to other organizations (demonstration
   effects). In addition, virtually all of these projects have been
   supported by post-grant investment from within the recipient
   organization itself. Third, FGDC grants have improved the in-house
   technical capacity (or broadened the range of in-house activities) of
   many of the grant recipients. Fourth, all of the successful applicants
   have created metadata clearinghouses. A substantial majority of the
   successful applicants ranked the importance of FGDC support either
   highly or very highly. Finally, the main reason that eligible
   non-applicants failed to submit proposals was that they were unaware of
   the existence of FGDC grants.
