http://www.bth.ca.gov/consumertips.pdf

   KNOW YOUR RIGHTS! CONSUMER TIPS BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE BUSINESS,
   TRANSPORTATION & HOUSING AGENCY STATE OF CALIFORNIA The best way to
   protect yourself, as a consumer, is to be informed. Below you will find
   some brief consumer information that may be helpful in those day-to-day
   transactions we all carry out. YOUR VEHICLE California law does not
   provide for a "cooling-off" or other cancellation period for vehicle
   lease or purchase contracts. Therefore, you cannot later cancel such a
   contract simply because you change your mind, decide the vehicle costs
   too much, or wish you had acquired a different vehicle. After you sign
   a motor vehicle purchase or lease contract, it may only be canceled
   with the agreement of the seller or lessor or for legal cause, such as
   fraud. When purchasing a used vehicle, "AS-IS" means exactly that. Have
   the vehicle inspected or checked by an independent mechanic before you
   sign a contract. Get all promises made by the dealer or seller in
   writing before you sign the contract. YOUR HOME Some mortgage loans
   have points and some do not. A point is a loan origination fee
   equivalent to 1% of the loan amount. Together with the interest rate,
   they constitute the yield on your loan for the lender. Some lenders
   charge a higher interest rate to compensate for charging no points.
   Shop around! Make sure your loan is a competitive rate! You are
   entitled to receive a Real Property Disclosure Statement during the
   course of your home purchase. This covers the physical condition of the
   property and potential hazards or defects that may be associated with
   it. It also discloses any special taxes, assessments and other factors
   that may have a material effect on the value or desirability of the
   property. Check with your realtor about this statement. YOUR MONEY
   Calls from strangers offering get-rich-quick schemes can be a sign that
   a "boiler room" scam is on the line. Operators rent offices with
   impressive addresses and hire unlicensed salespeople to work banks of
   phones calling individuals from lists they buy. They promise fast
   profits and usually do not deliver. Be sure to request a prospectus,
   offering circular and financial statement for investments, including
   stock offerings, limited partnerships, franchise offerings and mutual
   funds. Do your homework before investing your hard-earned dollars. YOUR
   HEALTHCARE You have the right to uninterrupted health care and the
   right to keep your doctor if you have an acute condition, are more than
   3 months pregnant or are hospitalized. You have the right to a choice
   of primary care doctors and, in most cases, the right to one within 15
   miles or 30 minutes of your home or workplace. If your HMO denies or
   modifies a health care benefit on the grounds that it's experimental or
   not medically necessary, you have the right to appeal to doctors
   outside your HMO by contacting the Department of Managed Health Care's
   HMO Help Center at 1-888-HMO-2219 or www.hmohelp.ca.gov The Business,
   Transportation & Housing Agency includes: The Department of
   Transportation (Caltrans), California Highway Patrol (CHP), Department
   of Motor Vehicles (DMV), Office of Traffic Safety, Housing & Community
   Development, CA Housing Finance Agency, Department of Real Estate,
   Office of Real Estate Appraisers, Department of Financial Institutions,
   Department of Corporations, Department of Managed Healthcare, Office of
   the Patient Advocate, Alcoholic Beverage Control, Stephen P. Teale Data
   Center
