http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/saveduca.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   Savings Bonds for Education
   line divider


               * Eligible Bonds
               * Eligible Institutions
               * Income Limitations

                                        * Requirements
                                        * Qualified Expenses
                                        * Additional Information

   Introduction. In 1990, the Treasury Department announced the "Education
   Bond Program." This program allows interest to be completely or
   partially excluded from Federal income tax when the bond owner pays
   qualified higher education expenses at an eligible institution or State
   tuition plan in the same calendar year the bonds are redeemed. Payments
   to State tuition plans have been eligible since January 1, 1998.

   Eligible Bonds. Series EE bonds issued January 1990 and later, along
   with all Series I Bonds, are eligible for this program. You aren't
   required to indicate that you intend to use the bonds for educational
   purposes when you buy them, but make sure you meet the program's
   requirements, some of which apply when you buy the bond(s).

   Requirements. To qualify, you must be at least 24 years old on the
   first day of the month in which you bought the bond(s).

   When using bonds for your child's education, the bonds must be
   registered in your name and/or your spouse's name. Your child can be
   listed as a beneficiary on the bond, but not as a co-owner.

   When using bonds for your own education, the bonds must be registered
   in your name.

   If you're married, you must file a joint return to qualify for the
   exclusion.

   Eligible Institutions. Post-secondary institutions, including colleges,
   universities, and vocational schools, that meet the standards for
   federal assistance (such as guaranteed student loan programs) qualify
   for the program.

   Qualified Expenses. Qualified educational expenses include tuition and
   fees (such as lab fees and other required course expenses). The
   expenses may be for the benefit of you, your spouse, or a dependent for
   whom you claim an exemption. Expenses paid for any course or other
   education involving sports, games, or hobbies qualify only if required
   as part of a degree or certificate-granting program. The costs of books
   and room and board aren't qualified expenses. (Qualified State tuition
   plans are also included among eligible expenses.) The amount of
   qualified expenses is reduced by the amount of any scholarships,
   fellowships, employer-provided educational assistance, and other forms
   of tuition reduction. Expenses must be incurred during the same tax
   year in which the bonds are redeemed.

   You must use both the principal and interest from the bonds to pay
   qualified expenses in order to exclude the interest from your gross
   income. If the amount of eligible bonds you've cashed during the year
   exceeds the amount of qualified educational expenses paid during the
   year, the amount of excludable interest is reduced pro rata.

   Example: Assuming bond proceeds equal $10,000 ($8,000 principal and
       $2,000 interest) and the qualified educational expenses are $8,000,
       you could exclude 80 percent of the interest earned, which would
       equal $1,600 (.8 x 2000).

   Income limitations. The full interest exclusion is only available to
   married couples filing joint returns, or to single filers, with
   modified adjusted gross income (which includes the interest earned)
   under a certain limit. These income limits apply in the year you use
   bonds for educational purposes--not the year you buy the bonds.
   Exclusion benefits are phased out for joint or single filers with
   modified adjusted gross income that exceeds the limit. 2001 and 2002
   income limitations follow.

   Tax Year 2001 Income Limits:
       For single taxpayers, the tax exclusion begins to be reduced with a
       $55,750 modified adjusted gross income and is eliminated for
       adjusted gross incomes of $70,750 and above. For married taxpayers
       filing jointly, the tax exclusion begins to be reduced with a
       $83,650 modified adjusted gross income and is eliminated for
       adjusted gross incomes of $113,650 and above. Married couples must
       file jointly to be eligible for the exclusion.
       Tax Year 2002 Income Limits:
       For single taxpayers, the tax exclusion begins to be reduced with a
       $57,600 modified adjusted gross income and is eliminated for
       adjusted gross incomes of $72,600 and above. For married taxpayers
       filing jointly, the tax exclusion begins to be reduced with a
       $86,400 modified adjusted gross income and is eliminated for
       adjusted gross incomes of $116,400 and above. Married couples must
       file jointly to be eligible for the exclusion.

   Additional Information. You can find additional information about the
   education bond program in:

   IRS Publication 17, "Your Federal Income Tax,"
   and
   IRS Publication 550, "Investment Income and Expenses," and
   IRS Publication 970, "Tax Benefits for Higher Education."

   See also:

     EasySaver - An easier way to buy savings bonds!

     Who Can Own Bonds?

     Tax Reporting

     Frequently Asked Questions about Education and Savings Bonds

                                                 Updated January 11, 2002
