http://www.pasen.gov/Senate_Library.html

   Elegant_Double51F0.gif (808 bytes)

                       Senate Library of Pennsylvania

                            157 Capitol Building
                          Harrisburg, PA 17120-3055
                               (717) 787-6120
                            (717) 783-5021 (Fax)
                             TT - (717) 772-3705
                                   (800) 364-1581

                         email:  senlib@os.pasen.gov

            Library Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Monday thru Friday

                           pookbar.gif (858 bytes)

       The Senate Library is a collection of Pennsylvania legislative
                    documents and Pennsylvania law books.

       Appropriations Acts     Brochures, Pamphlets, and Maps     Case
                        Law     Directories     Forms
     Hearings and Reports of Pennsylvania Bills     Laws     Legislative
                       Histories of Pennsylvania Bills
     Legislative Journals     Periodicals     Regulations     Telephone
                                    Books

                  For House and Senate Calendars, bill text
        and other legislative information, visit Session Information
              on the Pennsylvania General Assembly's web site.

                Return to the Senate of Pennsylvania Website


        APPROPRIATIONS ACTS


   Appropriations acts are listed in The Laws of Pennsylvania in a
   separate section following the acts.  This is the only place where the
   appropriation acts are published.


        BROCHURES, PAMPHLETS,
        AND MAPS The Senate library maintains current Pennsylvania State
   maps, Trucker's Guides, Boating and Fishing maps, the Pennsylvania
   Constitution, and other brochures for distribution.


        CASE LAW



         back to top


   The Senate Library has the opinions of the Supreme Court, Superior
   Court, and Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania.  The Senate Library has
   the U.S. Supreme Court Reporter and the Federal Reporter 2nd and 3rd
   series.


        DIRECTORIES


   The Pennsylvania Manual, a biannual publication of state government,
   includes a listing of Senators and Representatives.  The Rules of the
   Senate and House are also published in the manual.


        FORMS The Senate Library distributes federal and state tax forms,
   property tax and rent rebate forms, forms for pharmaceutical assistance
   for the aged, and PHEAA forms for student aid.


        HEARINGS AND REPORTS
        ON PENNSYLVANIA BILLS

         back to top The Senate Library collects transcripts of hearings
   on bills, copies of testimony submitted during hearings, and reports
   pursuant to resolutions.


        LAWS The texts of laws are in Purdon's Pennsylvania Statutes
   Annotated.   Purdon's is arranged in subject areas called titles.  An
   annual compilation, The Laws of Pennsylvania, lists the laws in
   sequential order as they are signed by the Governor.


        LEGISLATIVE HISTORIES
        OF PENNSYLVANIA BILLS



     The Combined History of Senate and House Bills enables one to trace
   the history of a bill during a legislative session.  A History contains
   the various printer's numbers of the bill and all action that occurred,
   including references to debate/remarks.


        LEGISLATIVE JOURNALS



         back to top


   The Senate Library collects  the Legislative Journal and its indexes
   and appendixes.  The Senate Library distributes the hardbound
   Legislative Journal: Senate to libraries throughout the state at the
   end of the legislative session.


        PERIODICALS The Senate Library subscribes to approximately 30
   periodical titles, including the law reviews of the law schools in
   Pennsylvania.


        REGULATIONS Proposed and promulgated regulations are published
   weekly in The Pennsylvania Bulletin.  Regulations are promulgated and
   recorded in The Pennsylvania Code.


        TELEPHONE BOOKS The Senate Library houses phone books of many
   Pennsylvania communities.

          back to top
