http://democraticleader.house.gov/corner/

                           Skip Navigational Links


   House Democratic Leader Home
     Leader's Corner
     Media Center
     Issues & Answers
     Families First Agenda
   In This Section

    Gephardt's Biography
    House Democratic Web...
    Missouri's 3rd Distr...
    Meet the Leadership
   Email Sign-Up
     Sign up for the Gephardt Report:
   Go!

   Richard A. Gephardt Picture of Richard Gephardt
   Section Home

   Welcome to the House Democratic Leadership web page. I hope you will
   find this site useful to connect you to the Democratic Leadership Team,
   our Democratic Priorities and forward-thinking agenda to put Families
   First, and all the latest news of interest to Democrats.

   Take a moment to visit each section and please sign-in and share your
   comments and ideas with me. Together, I know we can make this a
   Democratic year of success.

   Gephardt's Signature

                    Video Welcome from Democratic Leader
                             Richard A. Gephardt
                    Richard A. Gephardt's Video Greeting

                         Report From The Leadership

   The House Democratic Leadership (HDL) is unveiling a new look at the
   impact of the Bush Budget:
   The Bush Budget: Truth & Consequences

   This site is designed to connect you with information and analysis on
   the impact of President Bush's budget proposal. Specifically it
   explains how the President's budget threatens Social Security and
   Medicare, shortchanges numerous key American priorities, and imposes
   unnecessary risks on the economy. We hope you will take a moment to
   look at this information to find out what the truth & consequences of
   the Bush Budget may mean for you, your family, and our country's
   future.

   Contact Us | Home | Site Map | HDL Help | Search | Privacy Statement
   Leader's Corner | Media Center | Issues & Answers | Email Sign Up


           © Copyright 2000-2001 Office of House Democratic Leader
           All rights reserved.
