http://www.ustreas.gov/foia/

   Green Ball Bullet Image Guide to Accessing Treasury Records
   Green Ball Bullet Image FOIA Guidance
   Green Ball Bullet Image FOIA FAQ's
   Green Ball Bullet Image FOIA Reports
   Green Ball Bullet Image Electronic Reading Room
   Green Ball Bullet Image Bureau FOIA sites
   Green Ball Bullet Image Major Information Systems
   Green Ball Bullet Image Other Agencies
   (not a Treasury site)
   Green Ball Bullet Image Other Sources
   of Information
   Green Ball Bullet Image Where to Send Your Request
   Green Ball Bullet Image How to Write Your Request
   Green Ball Bullet Image Privacy Statement


   BobbyApprovedAccessibilityApprovalImage
   Freedom of Information Act Banner Image

   Welcome! The purpose of this site is to provide you with information
   about requesting Department of the Treasury records under the
   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

   Treasury consists of the Departmental Offices (Headquarters) and 12
   bureaus. Each of these has its own FOIA function to respond to requests
   for its records. You may access individual bureau sites by clicking on
   the "Bureau FOIA sites" link on the left side of this page.

   The FOIA gives any person the right to request access to records of the
   Executive Branch of the United States Government. The records requested
   must be disclosed unless they are protected by one or more of the
   exempt categories of information found in the FOIA. Records that,
   generally, may be protected from disclosure are: Properly classified
   material; limited kinds of purely internal matters; matters exempt from
   disclosure by other statutes; trade secrets or commercial or financial
   information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
   internal agency communications that represent the deliberative,
   pre-decisional process, attorney work product, or attorney-client
   records; information that would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of
   personal privacy; law enforcement records to the extent that one of six
   specific harms would result from disclosure; bank examination records;
   and oil well and similar information.

   Notwithstanding the above protections, the FOIA requires Federal
   agencies to provide the fullest possible disclosure of information to
   the public. Administrative and judicial remedies are available to those
   persons denied access to records.


   Comments, suggestions, and questions are always welcome -- send e-mail
   to disclosure@do.treas.gov

   Return to
   Treasury's Home Page

   Links 2 Go Award Icon
