http://lunar.arc.nasa.gov/project/index.htm

   The javascript on this page is used to preload the images for links and
   to swap the images used for links

   go to content
   layout image go to introduction
   [overvie.gif]
   go to lunar prospector
   go to launch vehicle go to mission control
   go to F A Q go to Ames research center go to discovery program go to
   Further Reading layout image
   Layout image go to home
   go to project go to results Go to datavis go to history Go to science
   Go to education Go to archives go to resources

                                INTRODUCTION

   Prospector is a NASA Discovery Mission. This new kind of mission places
   an emphasis on science and "Faster, Better, Cheaper" mission design and
   development. Lunar Prospector exemplifies these goals. It is a small,
   spin-stabilized craft that uses flight-qualified, modern technologies
   and instrumentation to ensure results and minimize risk. The design is
   simple: a small, graphite-epoxy drum (1.4m x 1.2m) with surface mounted
   solar cells and three 2.5m masts which carry the instruments and
   isolate them from the bus. Learn more about the Lunar Prospector
   mission from the following sections:

   Project Overview gives a breif desciption of what Lunar Prospector is
   and what it's goals are.

   Lunar Prospector Here you can find general information about the actual
   Lunar Prospector spacecraft. This section contains two virtual reality
   animations, allowing you to view the spacecraft from various angles.

   Launch Vehicle Learn about the vehicles that allowed the Lunar
   Prospector to get into orbit and on to the moon.

   Mission Control See the layout and get general information about Luanr
   Prospector's Mission Control.

   FAQ Have questions about the Lunar Prospector mission or the moon? If
   so then this is where you will find the answers to many questions about
   the spacecraft, the instruments, the mission and the moon.

   Ames Research Center Learn more about the center where much of the
   research for Lunar Prospector was done.

   Discovery Program Lunar Prospector is one mission of a series known as
   the Discovery Program. Based on the motto ,"Faster, Better, Cheaper,"
   this program will explore the moon Mars and beyond.

   Further Reading Get more information about the topics discussed in this
   section.

                                   MENU
   Home | Project | Results | Datavis | History | Science | Education |
                           Archives | Resources

                                  SUBMENU
   Introduction | Project Overview | Lunar Prospector | Launch Vehicle |
                              Mission Control
     FAQ | Ames Research Center | Discovery Program | Further Reading

        Contact Information
   Last Updated: August 31, 2001
