http://www.sao.wa.gov/Whistleblower/AbouttheProgram/wbform.htm

   Washington State Auditor's Office
   State Employee Whistleblower Program
   PO Box 40021
   Attention: ED
   Olympia WA 98504-0021

                   WHISTLEBLOWER ASSERTION REPORTING FORM

   Under state law, the State Auditors Office may not investigate
   personnel actions for which other remedies exist, including grievances,
   appointments, promotions, reprimands, suspensions, dismissals,
   harassment, alleged discrimination and other related actions. If your
   concern is related to a personnel action, you may find material on
   other options at:

      http://www.sao.wa.gov/Whistleblower/AbouttheProgram/WBProgram.htm

                               Auditor’s Office Only
                               Date Received


                                                     Auditor’s Office Only
                                                     WB Case No.


   Name of person filing the assertion(s)

   Mr. ( ) Ms. ( ) Mrs. ( ) Miss ( )

   Name

                                    Agency

                                                                Date

   Home or mailing address




                                    Division

                                                                Day phone

                                    Address

                                                                Night phone

   Current position

                                    Best time and number to call


   Subject(s) of assertion(s)

   Please file a separate form for each state employee or officer alleged
   to have engaged in improper governmental action.

   Name
           Agency   Division
   Position
           Location Phone

   Subject's supervisor

   Name
       Position Location


   Have you reported this information to another agency?  (  ) Yes  (  )
   No

   If so, which one?

   If you have disclosed the information reported here, what is the
   current status of the matter?



   Information Concerning The Assertion

   How do you know about the information you are disclosing here:

   _ Personal or direct knowledge

   _ Others have told me about the situation

   _ Other (please explain)


   Which type(s) of improper governmental action does the assertion(s)
   involve? Please check all that apply. If you know the particular law or
   regulation that has been violated, please provide it.

   __ Violation of state law or regulation.

   __ Abuse of authority.

   __ Substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety.

   __ Gross waste of public funds.

   What is the assertion of improper governmental activity? Please
   describe in detail. If you need more space, please attach a separate
   piece of paper.






   When did the event(s) take place? Please include date, time, and
   frequency, if applicable.


   Where did the event(s) occur?


   Are there other witnesses? If so, what are their names, positions,
   agencies, and divisions?



   Is there evidence that can be examined or documentation which can be
   reviewed? Can you personally provide any of that information?



   If you need assistance, please call Jim Brittain at (360) 902-0372 or
   Dell Cowart at (360) 902-0369.
