http://gcr.msfc.nasa.gov/speakers.html

   Marshall Space Flight Center - Government & Community Relations

             Back to Government & Community Relations Home Page

Speakers Bureau

   The Marshall Space Flight Center occupies 1,800 acres in the middle of
   the U. S. Armys Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama. It is NASAs
   premier organization for developing space transportation and propulsion
   systems and for conducting microgravity research. The Marshall Center
   is also NASAs center of excellence for space propulsion. It was the
   birthplace of the Mercury Redstone rocket and the giant Saturn V moon
   rocket.

   The women and men of the Marshall Space Flight Center --- scientists,
   engineers, researchers and others --- make up the Marshall Center
   Speakers Bureau. They are ready to share with your organization their
   knowledge and enthusiasm about their work at Marshall.

   Marshall Space Flight Centers Speakers Bureau responds to a six-state
   area: Alabama, Arkansas, Iowa, Louisiana, Missouri and Tennessee.

   Speakers are provided, when available, at no charge. They may not
   accept outside compensation or honorariums. The sponsoring organization
   is asked to cover travel, lodging and meal costs incurred outside a
   50-mile radius of the Marshall Space Flight Center. Speakers do not
   participate in events of commercial nature or where any group has been
   unlawfully segregated or excluded on the basis of race, color,
   religion, sex or national origin.

   Speaker Topics

   Speakers are available to talk about many topics. Some of the most
   popular are:

     * NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center (Overview)
     * Space Transportation Systems of the Future
     * Microgravity Research
     * Large Optics (Hubble, Chandra, Next Generation Space Telescope)
     * Marshall Space Flight Center's Role in the Space Shuttle
     * Marshall Space Flight Center's Role in the International Space
       Station
     * The Global Hydrology and Climate Center
     * Space Sciences
     * Marshall Space Flight Center's Contributions to Education

   How to Request a Speaker

   When requesting a speaker, please specify the desired topic, date and
   time of the event, and a brief description of your organization. Also
   include the name, telephone number and mailing address of a point of
   contact. Speakers should be requested at least six to eight weeks in
   advance of the event. This consideration is necessary to give speakers
   adequate notice, ensure minimum disruption to their work schedules, and
   provide adequate advance notice to the requester that a speaker will or
   will not be available. You can request a speaker by one of the
   following methods:

   For a Speaker Request Form

   Write to:

   Speakers Bureau
   Marshall Space Flight Center
   CD50 Marcia Cobun
   Huntsville, AL 35812

   Call: (256) 544-1715
   or Submit: An Online Request Form
   Navigation
