http://triana.gsfc.nasa.gov/education/education.htm

   navigation map image                     Triana Observatory image
   Triana title image Education title image


   NASA Homepage Link NASA Home
   Triana Science Objectives Paper
   NASA Earth Science Enterprise
   Scripps Homepage Link Scripps Home
   Simulation Triana view of Moon crossing Earth
   EPIC Camera Team
   EarthKam Link Students take Earth pictures from Space Shuttle
   Magneto
   sphere Reference
   Solar Wind Reference
   Universal Space Network
   Triana Ground Network Provider
   TOMS NASA's Total Ozone Mapping Program
   CSLP Cooperative Satellite Learning Project
   GLOBE link Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment



   What exactly is the Triana Project?

   Triana is a satellite mission to the Lagrange-1 (L1) point - the
   neutral gravity point between the Sun and the Earth dedicated to
   increasing our understanding of the Earth. With a scheduled launch date
   of October 2001, Triana will be the first Earth observing mission to
   provide a continuous, full disk view of the sun-lit Earth from 1.5
   million kilometers. This unique set of observations has tremendous
   potential to aid in our understanding of the total Earth system and the
   effects of natural and human-induced changes on the global environment.

   Dr. Francisco P.J. Valero of the Scripps Institute of Oceanography at
   the University of California, San Diego was selected to lead the
   development of the Triana mission. In order to accomplish its
   scientific objectives, the Triana spacecraft will carry three
   scientific instruments: the Scripps National Institute of Standards &
   Technology Absolute Radiometer (Scripps-NISTAR), the Scripps Earth
   Polychromatic Imaging Camera (Scripps-EPIC) and the Plasma Magnetometer
   Solar Weather Instrument (PlasMag). The Scripps-NISTAR will help detect
   changes in the Earth's energy balance that can affect climate studies.
   The Scripps-EPIC will measure ozone and aerosol amounts, cloud
   characteristics, land and ocean surface changes. The Plasma-Mag will
   measure solar wind properties and detect the onset of solar-event
   storms that could damage satellites and electrical equipment on Eart h.

   Once Triana reaches L1, the Scripps-EPIC Camera will take images at 15
   minutes intervals with a resolution of about 8 km. These images, and
   supporting information, will be accessible on the internet. The Triana
   obse rvations will give researchers, educators, students and the
   general public a better understanding of how the Earth acts as a system
   and how solar phenomenon effect us.

   How can Triana be useful to educators?

   Images from space provide a unique and powerful way for students to
   explore, and learn about, the Earth and its environment. Triana's
   unique set of full-disk images of the earth and complementary set of
   space-weather data will provide a rich resource of e ducational
   material. Students will be able to investigate global changes in cloud
   cover, ozone, weather patterns, seasonal changes. Learning modules on
   the fundamental concepts of science and mathematics relevant to the use
   of Earth viewing instruments such as an introduction to remote sensing,
   data manipulation and general properties of image analysis can be
   developed using the Triana data.

   Educational Resources

   For access to Earth Sciences Educational Resources, please try
   http://esdcd.gsfc.nasa.gov/ESD/edu/.

   Triana Facts:
     * Triana is named after the sailor, Rodrigo de Triana, the first
       "lookout" to spot the New World from Columbus' ship.
     * It will take approximately three months for Triana to reach L1.
     * The Triana mission will last for 2-5 years.
     * The expected launch date for Triana is October 2001.



     Principal Investigator
     Curator
     NASA Official
                           Dr. Francisco Valero
                           Debbie Ladwig
                           Jim Watzin
                                               Security Statement
                                               Privacy Statement
