http://www.ferc.gov/legal/legal.htm

   [skip.jpg] [btnrabou.jpg] Calendar of Events Page News & Reports Page
   Documents & Filing Page Legal Matters Page ALJ Page Case Information
   Page OGC Page DRS Page Complaints Page Enforcement Hotline Page Stats &
   Regs Page Informational Resources Page

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons
   Gas main page
   Hydro main page
   Electric main page
   Oil main page

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
      Graphic Docket Sheets / Service Lists Link Graphic Site Map Link
                          Graphic Home Link Graphic


   Legal Matters

                                      Ethics
                        Office of Administrative Law Judges
                           Office of the General Counsel

             Solicitor's Office(Appellate Cases)
             Litigated Cases

                            Dispute Resolution Service
                                Enforcement Hotline
                       Complaints Filed with the Commission
                             Statutes and Regulations

   Office of Administrative Law Judges

      The Office of Administrative Law Judges' web pages contains the office
         mission and functions, an office directory, judges' biographical
      information, hearing room information, procedural dates and milestones
         for all active cases pending in the Office of Administrative Law
       Judges, and the calendar of hearings and conferences for the upcoming
       30 days. Our web site also contains links to restricted service lists
      established by the Administrative Law Judges in cases set for hearing,
       to the Commission's Issuance Posting System, and to the Office of the
                                 General Counsel.

   Office of the General Counsel

           Provides legal services to the Commission. OGC represents the
       Commission before the courts and Congress and is responsible for the
                   legal phases of the Commission's activities.

   Solicitor

       The Office of the Solicitor defends the Commission's orders and other
       actions in the Federal courts, primarily the U.S. Courts of Appeals.

   Litigated Cases

        The Division of Administrative Litigation within the Office of the
      General Counsel litigates or otherwise resolves cases set for hearing.
      The lawyers in this Division represent the public interest and seek to
       litigate or settle cases in a timely, efficient, and equitable manner
      while ensuring the outcomes are consistent with Commission policy.  Our
        technical counterparts are in the Division of Litigation within the
                       Office of Markets, Tariffs, and Rates

   Dispute Resolution Service

        The Dispute Resolution Service (DRS) fosters the use of alternative
          dispute resolution processes (ADR), in oil, gas, electric, and
      hydroelectric proceedings, and for disputes within the Commission. The
       DRS, which is neutral and independent, provides ADR service, such as
       convening sessions, facilitation, and mediation. The DRS is available
       to assist parties in screening disputes for ADR application, and also
              helps develop programs for ADR education and training.

   Enforcement Hotline

       The Office of the General Counsel's Market Oversight and Enforcement
       section operates the Enforcement Hotline. This service is used by the
      public to informally, expeditiously and confidentially resolve disputes
           in matters within the Commission's jurisdiction or to obtain
      information. It also can be used to report possible violations by FERC
        regulated companies. All calls are treated confidentially. Further
      details about the Enforcement Hotline and how to access it are found in
         the link above and in the discussion of the Market Oversight and
                               Enforcement section.

   Complaints Filed with the Commission

         The Complaints page lists pending complaints at FERC. Each docket
       number is linked to the Complaint that was filed with the Commission
                          (if it is public information).

   Statutes and Regulations

       This page contains links to statutes and regulations that provide the
          Commission its authority and governs how it does business.


   Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act - Enforcement
                                   Hotline
           Disclaimers - Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                          Updated: October 5, 2001
