http://www.fema.gov/diz01/d1361n01.htm

      Disaster Banner, this is an image map, please refer to text links
                                   below.
   [home | feedback | library | privacy policy | search | site help | site
                                   index ]

   President Orders Disaster Aid For Seattle Earthquake

                   For Complete Coverage of this Disaster

       Washington, March 1, 2001 -- The head of the Federal Emergency
      Management Agency (FEMA) announced today that President Bush has
   declared Washington State a major disaster area, triggering the release
     of federal funds to supplement recovery efforts in the Seattle area
    jolted yesterday by a powerful earthquake measuring 6.8 in magnitude.

    FEMA Director Joe M. Allbaugh said the President took the action this
   evening immediately after receiving the agency analysis of the state's
          request for federal assistance submitted this afternoon.

      "The President is committed to ensuring the safety and welfare of
     people in the earthquake area," Allbaugh said. "He has pledged the
    support of the federal government and made resources available as may
    be required to help meet immediate needs and assist in the rebuilding
                                  process."

    Allbaugh, who toured the earthquake area earlier today, said stricken
    residents and business owners in the counties of King, Kitsap, Lewis,
   Mason, Pierce and Thurston are eligible to apply for federal aid under
                 the President's major disaster declaration.

    The assistance, to be coordinated by FEMA, can include grants to help
       pay for temporary housing, minor home repairs and other serious
      disaster-related expenses. Low-interest loans from the U.S. Small
   Business Administration also will be available to cover residential and
             business losses not fully compensated by insurance.

   Additionally, federal funds will be provided to the state and affected
    local governments in the designated counties to pay 75 percent of the
   costs for debris removal, emergency services related to the earthquake,
    and repairing or replacing damaged public facilities, such as roads,
    buildings and utilities. The declaration also makes funding available
    to the state on a cost-shared basis for approved projects that reduce
                           future disaster risks.

       Allbaugh, who designated the counties eligible for federal aid
     following the declaration, said more jurisdictions may be added for
    assistance as soon as damage can be assessed throughout the stricken
                                    area.

    William Lokey of FEMA was named by Allbaugh to coordinate the federal
      relief effort. Lokey said that residents and business owners who
     sustained losses in the designated counties can begin the disaster
   application process by calling 1-800-462-9029, or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY)
    for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers
      will operate from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. (PST) seven days a week until
                               further notice.

     Lokey advised that those who sustained damage should first contact
    their insurance agent and make an assessment of the degree of damage
               before calling the toll-free telephone service.

    "While we encourage everyone to apply for aid, our immediate priority
      is to assist people most in need," Lokey said. "We would greatly
   appreciate those with minor damage delaying their calls for a few days
   to keep the lines open for taking applications from others who may have
             been left homeless or suffered significant losses."

       Lokey also noted that it normally takes seven to ten days after
        applications are made to have damage verified by FEMA housing
   inspectors and another week or more before qualified applicants receive
                             assistance checks.

   "We ask that people exercise a little patience and assure them that we
   will be available for as long as it takes to deliver all the assistance
                       they are entitled to receive."


    Updated: March 1, 2001

                 FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCYMANAGEMENT AGENCY
