http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/Speech%20Files/Proceedings_Final_Summit.doc

   October 16-18, 2001 Columbia, Maryland December 17, 2001 Prepared for:
   National Steering Committee on Transportation Operations Federal
   Highway Administration American Association of State Highway and
   Transportation Officials American Public Transportation Association
   Intelligent Transportation Society of America Institute of
   Transportation Engineers Public Technologies, Incorporated Prepared by:
   8283 Greensboro Drive McLean, Virginia 22102 Contact: Valerie Briggs
   (703) 917-2197 CONTENTS Acronyms ii Executive Summary 1 Summit Outcomes
   2 Next Steps 5 APPENDIX A: Compendium of Proposed Actions and
   Legislative Options A-1 APPENDIX B: Assessment of Legislative Options
   and Non-Legislative Actions B-1 Acronyms CMAQ Congestion Management/Air
   Quality CMS Congestion Management System DOD Department of Defense DOJ
   Department of Justice FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency FHWA
   Federal Highway Administration FTA Federal Transit Administration NSC
   National Steering Committee on Transportation Operations ISTEA
   Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 ITS
   Intelligent Transportation Systems MPO Metropolitan Planning
   Organization NDTO National Dialogue on Transportation Operations NHS
   National Highway System R&D Research and Development ROOs Regional
   Operating Organizations SRS Safety, Reliability, and Security STP
   Surface Transportation Program TEA-21 Transportation Equity Act for the
   21st Century TIP Transportation Improvement Plan TOP Transportation
   Operations Plan TOPICS Transportation Operations Program to Improve
   Capacity and Safety TSM Transportation System Management USDOT United
   States Department of Transportation Executive Summary From October 16
   through 18, 2001, the National Steering Committee on Transport-ation
   Operations and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) hosted a
   National Summit on Transportation Operations in Columbia, Maryland. The
   goal of the Summit was to identify and discuss key strategies to
   advance operations in both the reauthor-ization of the Transportation
   Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) and future opera-tional
   programs. The conference focused on vetting and discussing needs,
   opportunities, and strategies necessary to enhance trans-portation
   operations from the perspective of public- and private sector
   stakeholders. More than 240 professionals representing academia,
   planning, engineering, safety, transit, bicycles and pedestrians, and
   freight, as well as elected and appointed officials from local and
   regional government, participated in two full days of intensive
   breakout group and conversation circle discussions aimed at gaining a
   better grasp of operations priorities. The work sessions were
   punctuated by presentations from practition-ers with first-hand
   experience in successful transportation operations management across
   the country. Throughout the summit, the participants contributed to the
   development of legislative options and non-legislative actions aimed at
   providing guidance to the Operations effort for 2002 and beyond. These
   options and actions are captured and categorized in Table 1 in the
   Appendix. The majority of options and actions support and clarify a few
   broad themes: Increase focus on transportation operations at the
   Federal, State, regional, and local levels in response to customer
   needs. Define transportation operations in a way that is meaningful to
   the public, public officials, and professionals. Foster greater
   awareness of the value of transportation operations. Enhance
   performance of the transport-ation system through performance-based
   decision-making and an increased focus on safety, reliability, and
   security. Support development of the necessary information
   infrastructure (``infostruc-ture'') for data collection. Create
   linkages between traditional capital planning processes and planning
   for operations. Support and assist homeland security initiatives.
   Facilitate accelerated evolution of cultural change within
   transportation agencies to adopt policies and practices that support
   operations. Enhance interagency coordination and cooperation. Continue
   funding and support for opera-tions programs and policies at the
   Federal level, and encourage greater participation at State, regional,
   and local levels. summit outcomes This section summarizes the key
   themes and positions that emerged from the Summit breakout group and
   conversation circle discussions. In addition, unresolved issues are
   indicated where appropriate, although this is not considered a complete
   list of unresolved issues. Details on these themes and positions, as
   offered in the Summit, are provided in the Appendix and in the complete
   conference proceedings. Need, Purpose, and Scope of Transportation
   Operations Increase focus on transportation operations. Participants
   clearly agree to the need for an increased focus on transportation
   operations at all levels - Federal, State, regional, and local. This
   need is based on several factors: Growing congestion and incident
   problems are causing transportation system performance to be a top
   political priority in many areas of the country. Capacity constraints
   and costs of new construction are forcing us to look at alternative
   solutions and place a premium on maintaining and improv-ing the
   existing transportation system. Customers desire travel choices, better
   information, and increased reliability to meet their mobility needs. An
   efficient and responsive transport-ation system is critical to meeting
   homeland security priorities. Define transportation operations in a
   meaningful way. The public, public officials, and professional
   community must understand the need for and goals of the operations
   initiative. Operations must be defined in a manner that resonates with
   these constituents is critical. Conference participants came up with
   ``safety, reliability, and security'' (SRS) as terms that effectively
   commun-icate key goals of operations. However, a clear and concise
   definition of operations that articulates the scope and intent of the
   activities it comprises remains to be dev-eloped. Extensive outreach to
   public officials and the professional community to help them understand
   and implement operations programs, and demonstration of the benefits of
   those programs, are also necessary. Enhance performance of the
   transportation system. Transportation operations refers to a number of
   functions aimed at en-hancing the performance of the trans-portation
   system as a whole. These functions include, but are not limited to:
   Routine traffic and transit operations Public safety responses Planned
   construction disruptions Incident management Network and facility
   management Traveler and shipper information Bicycle and pedestrian
   mobility. New construction and maintenance also are important means of
   enhancing transportation system performance. All transportation
   decision-making processes, including capital planning and programming
   processes, need to be based on enhancement of overall transportation
   system performance and individual mobility (not just vehicle mobility).
   Incorporating a performance focus into existing processes requires that
   we understand customer needs and expectations more fully, establish
   performance measures focused on outcomes (as opposed to outputs), and
   track performance against those measures. Performance measures should
   be developed at the regional level based on regional priorities, within
   the bounds of national priorities. Federal guidance through models,
   best practices, and demonstration projects and Federal assistance in
   the implementation of ``infostructure'' for data collection are needed.
   Key questions remaining are whether an entity, such as a Metropol-itan
   Planning Organization (MPO) or other regional organizations, should be
   assigned the responsibility and held accountable for development and
   monitoring of performance measures and for overall planning for
   operations. Create linkages between capital planning processes and
   planning for operations. Related to the previous theme is the need to
   enhance the performance orientation of traditional capital-planning
   processes. In addition, institutionalization of opera-tions planning is
   required for operations programs to be developed in a cohesive manner
   and receive adequate funding. Some suggest that a transportation
   planning process, similar to the Trans-portation Improvement Plan (TIP)
   development process, should be develop-ed and become a requirement of
   MPOs. At the least, capital planning processes should be retooled to
   consider operations solutions. Support and assist homeland security
   initiatives. Transportation operations and homeland security share many
   of the same goals and functions - planning for and taking measures to
   avoid emergency situations, responding swiftly and effectively, and
   moving people safely and efficiently, to name a few. Many of the same
   partners are involved in both, and similar resources are used.
   Participants recognized the need to investigate resource sharing (e.g.,
   communications infrastructure, traffic control centers) and joint
   planning with those involved in homeland security initiatives. Transit
   security and preparedness, international border security, asset
   security and track-ing, vulnerability assessment, planning, and
   creation of system redundancy were identified as important
   transportation priorities for homeland security. Institutional
   Transformation Facilitate agency cultural change. Elevating the status
   of transportation operations within State and local agencies is a
   critical challenge as it ``suggests a fundamental shift in thinking
   within the [transporta-tion] community'' (John Mason). Facilitat-ing
   this shift will require cultural changes within transportation agencies
   to increase focus on customer service and system performance.
   Transcending traditional functional and modal boundaries to develop
   integrated regional solutions will be necessary. Encouraging
   understanding and responsibility for operations through-out these
   organizations is desired, as transportation performance is affected by
   many different functions. It is important that transportation
   operations not be seen as the responsibility of a single division or
   entity. Accelerated evolution of these cultural changes through Federal
   pro-grams and training and education is encouraged. Transit agencies
   may serve as models for emulation, since many are experienced regional
   operators. Enhance interagency coordination and cooperation. Many
   transportation operations programs are most effectively applied at a
   regional level. These pro-grams require planning, coordination, and
   support from multiple agencies, often including public safety,
   emergency response, transportation, and private-sector entities. Summit
   participants agreed on the value of a common ``table'' at the regional
   level for bringing together personnel from multiple agencies to plan
   for and implement an operations agenda. Bringing all the critical
   players to the table was recognized as a critical challenge. It was
   suggested that the transportation community might need to reach out to
   the public safety community by participating in existing
   public-safety-oriented coalitions. Also discussed was whether to assign
   responsibility for ensuring that cooperation takes place to a single
   entity, such as an MPO. This question remains. Federal Role and
   Legislation Encourage ``accelerated evolution'' of cultural change
   within transportation agencies. ``Accelerated evolution'' emerged as a
   concept to describe the Federal role in speeding the acceptance and
   incorporation of operations and performance-based decision-making in
   State and local agencies' activities and processes. The Federal
   government acts as a leader, establishing priorities and focus areas
   for other government entities based on legislative language, funding,
   and requirements. Summit participants felt that the Federal government
   should exercise this role through changes in legislative language and
   funding eligibi-lity to acknowledge and provide for operations
   programs. In particular, the need to revise Titles 23 and 49 to
   incor-porate an operations perspective and to revisit capital
   programming require-ments to be more performance oriented were
   expressed as priorities. Participants strongly favored incentive-based
   approaches over mandates or new requirements. Support and assist State
   and local agencies. Beyond establishing transportation operations as a
   national priority, the Federal role should be to support and assist
   state and local entities in accomp-lishing related goals. This includes
   support of research and development (R&D), provision of tools,
   promotion of best practices, and enhancement of education and training
   at all levels. Provide flexible funding. Participants favored flexible
   funding approaches as the best means of supporting operations needs.
   Expanding funding eligibility for operations programs, enabling direct
   funding to local and regional operating agencies, and simplifying and
   clarifying Federal-funding processes were identified as important
   actions. Target a few programs. In addition to flexible funding,
   several programs were identified as potential targets for funding:
   Homeland security initiatives related to transportation Incident
   management programs Implementation of infostructure for data collection
   and management Provision of real-time information to and from customers
   Support for regional cooperation and partnerships Programs to alleviate
   bottlenecks. Encourage local matching and innovative funding. The
   Federal government has a role in exploring and promoting best practices
   related to innovative funding for operations. Next Steps Although the
   summit established common ground on a number of key themes and
   directions for an operations program, it did not, in many cases,
   determine how to accomplish the actions identified. Much work remains
   in developing a comprehen-sive program to prioritize and address these
   needs and actions. It is clear that a number of strategic questions are
   unresolved, e.g., whether a transportation planning process should be
   required of MPOs, how to struc-ture Federal funding for operations, and
   whether a single entity should be respon-sible for ensuring that
   interagency coord-ination and communication take place. Addressing
   these questions and developing a comprehensive program will require the
   continued participation of those individuals and associations involved
   in the National Dialogue to date. As we move forward toward
   reauthorization of TEA-21, it is expected that these associations will
   contin-ue to refine their objectives and develop positions regarding
   the remaining ques-tions. It is the goal of the National Dialogue to,
   wherever possible, develop common focus and vision and provide a forum
   for positions to be prepared and discussed. Although reauthorization is
   a critical target for many of the policies and programs discussed, more
   immediate policy actions may be warranted. It is a critical time for
   establishing the relevance of transportation operations to homeland
   security. In addi-tion, it may be prudent to lay the ground-work for a
   broadscale operations program during reauthorization, through
   more-immediate targeted legislation. These proposed legislative
   programs could be developed and backed by a single associa-tion or
   coalition of non-government entities. FHWA will continue to support
   those activities that are considered key Federal roles - R&D, provision
   of tools, and training and support - to advance the operations mission.
   ). Appendix A: Compendium of proposed legislative options and
   non-legislative actions NDTO Outreach and Input Summit Input Issues
   Common Points of View Challenge Areas/ Questions Proposed Actions
   (Federal, Association, & Collective Responsibilities) Legislative
   Options Comments 1. Need for Systems Operations & Management Priority
   for maintaining and improving existing system Growing congestion and
   incidents Customer desire for improved reliability, security, and
   safety Capacity constraints and costs Opportunities from new
   technologies Advantages of regional scale focus Customer desire for
   travel choices and better information Quality of life impacts (air
   quality) Meeting mobility needs of all users (freight, bike,
   pedestrian) National Security concerns No institutional ownership of
   congestion and related problems Lack of understanding of definition of
   operations and activities included Agencies' lack of understanding or
   desire to change the status quo; belief that operation is being done
   already Definition of Operations Define operations in a way that is
   meaningful to decision makers Develop better term for operations
   (security, reliability, safety) Use operations term as umbrella for
   other issues and goals Demonstration of Benefits Demonstrate payoffs of
   operations to decision makers Revision of Legislative Language Revise
   Title 23 & 49 to acknowledge need for operations Overlap with Homeland
   Security Include operations in Homeland Security initiatives Suggested
   statement of purpose: ``The system shall be operated in a cooperative
   and collaborative manner that maximizes choices for mobility and
   goods.'' 2. Performance Focus Service orientation Customer-driven
   Agency accountability to users Real-time performance monitoring basis
   Focus on outcome rather than output Need for instrumentation (enabling
   infrastructure) and data Business models (national initiative needed?)
   Set-asides for performance measurement data collection? Add focus in
   Conditions and Performance Report Federal role unclear (standards,
   requirements, guidance, incentives?) Local, regional, national
   priorities need different data Development of Tools and Examples
   Develop comprehensive set of performance measures for national,
   regional, local management needs Support prototype regions for
   development of performance data and measures Continue development of
   assessment and evaluation tools Establish benchmarks Customer Focus
   Identify customers and define customer needs and expectations first
   Develop means to better understand and communicate with customer;
   utilize technology for data collection and private-sector services
   Value Assessment Continue work on costs and benefits Federal
   Leadership/Role Create incentives for use of performance measures
   Develop national performance measures or guidance? Develop guidance
   Establish requirements, schedule, and plan Support Programs Establish
   common data format Fund data collection Support instrumentation in
   incremental manner: interstates, regional/corridor networks, other;.
   include transit priorities Research and develop, pilot, and promote
   emerging technologies, sampling, and simulation modeling techniques
   Responsibility/Accountability Make Metropolitan Planning Organizations
   accountable for system performance as custodians of funds Regional
   Approach Agencies in region should develop and use consistent
   performance measures to evaluate regional priorities Performance
   Measure Specifications Performance measures should: Be based on
   customer expectations Support political, policy, and technical
   decisions (including Return on Investment) Be the basis for strategic
   planning and decision making Be based on outcomes rather than outputs
   Be tailored to local and regional needs and be consistent with national
   priorities Reflect multiple concerns (mobility, reliability, travel
   time, predictability, door-to-door, multimodal, public safety, traveler
   info, bike, pedestrian, peak/off-peak, tourist info.) 3. Program Scope
   Program Scope (Continued) Existing system efficiency/safety focus
   Regional scale focus (trip scale) Multimodal/ intermodal Rural and
   urban All performance-impacting activities (supply and demand) More
   than Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Public safety as primary
   mission Traveler information Emergency management Freight programs
   Homeland security Breadth of focus Different approaches for National
   (interstate) vs. regional focus Communication Define operations in a
   way that is meaningful to decision makers Describe actions and
   comparative effectiveness Strategies Define national interests and
   regional interests Define and build on link to asset management
   Demonstrate collateral benefit to transportation operations resulting
   from homeland security investments Incorporate traditional strategies
   in meeting operations goals (construction, maintenance, provision of
   services, ITS, intermodal initiatives) Involve business community in
   development and promotion of programs Goals/Programs Develop toolbox
   Incident Management Summit Traffic Management Center users group
   Provide better information to the traveler through a variety of means
   (hand-held devices), account for different users (trucking,
   vacationers, commuters, etc.) Create redundancy in transportation
   system for emergency management Focus on system bottlenecks Create
   National Incident Management Alliance with responsibility for National
   Program on Incident Management Programs Consider funding for programs
   that support transportation operations for people and freight E-911
   Public safety Wireless geolocation Instrumentation of infrastructure
   and vehicles Support creation of transportation data clearinghouse;.
   encourage and fund data sharing and communication Continue and expand
   Federal and regional support for regional incident management programs
   and improvement of bottlenecks Focus wider than congestion, includes:
   Safety System reliability Security 4. Planning for Operations Limited
   experience New investment types and functionalities Fit problem with
   3-C focus Wider boundaries, additional stakeholders Responsibility Role
   of MPOs Federal role (requirements, incentives, no change?) Potential
   changes to existing process Federal Role Develop guidance on planning
   for operations Develop operations planning process, including
   definitions Operations Planning Coordination Include local leaders in
   operations planning Include customer survey tool in planning process to
   provide better customer data; use results as basis for programming
   Linkages to Existing Processes Promote strong input from operations in
   capital planning Establish linkages between operations and land use and
   development programs Incorporate operations into decision-making
   processes; develop metrics based on internal and regionwide goals
   Federal Role Require or create incentives for the development of a
   Transportation Operations Plan (TOP) parallel to or part of the TIP
   Specifications Establish regional scale for operations planning Require
   commitment to maintenance and operations funding at time of capital
   funding Planning process should be based on systems performance rather
   than on capital projects Operations planning should define
   participants, outcomes functions, and timing of activities Operations
   planning should identify projects, activities, and policies to improve
   options, choice, and redundancy at the system level 5. Cultural Change
   New mindset implied New agency mission mix Change in priorities
   required Service orientation Constituency base? Agency Focus/Mission
   Enhance organizational focus on customer service Provide customer
   options (bicycle, pedestrian, transit) Encourage agency leaders to tie
   incentives, awards, and accountability to the achievement of
   performance goals Follow public safety example - be responsible for
   people rather than systems Federal Leadership Encourage cultural
   evolution through Federal legislation and funding State/Local
   Leadership Make operations a core agency mission through creation of a
   budget line item Federal legislation provides framework for local
   decision making Involve operators in response to customer needs and
   complaints 6. Resource Implications Resource Implications (Continued)
   Investment level Clarify/increase funding flexibility Staffing and
   on-going operations resources challenge Lack of understanding of
   Federal funding eligibility New categorical program? Other funding
   options? Direct Federal funding to local agencies? How to quantify
   performance data to support investment decisions Flexible vs. broad
   program ISTEA provision limits use of funds for ongoing operations
   Evaluate investment level Fully integrate and balance operating and
   capital budgeting (e.g., transit model) Emphasize importance of
   developing life-cycle funding estimates Establish better relationships
   with legislators to benefit from earmarks Revise Conditions and
   Performance Report to reflect operations performance measures and
   quantify operations needs Funding Sources/Resource Sharing Develop
   innovative financing mechanisms to fund operations Identify/use other
   funding sources (new user taxes, dedicated local sales taxes, economic
   development funds) Encourage resource sharing with Department of
   Justice, Federal Emergency Management Agency(FEMA)
   Specifications/Flexibility Ensure sustainable/life-cycle funding for
   operations Enable flexibility to fund initiatives related to system
   operations (e.g., demand management, bike/pedestrian programs, freight
   management) Use incentives rather than mandates Provide funding for new
   mandates Simplify funding process to make operations funding
   understandable and more accessible to greater number of users Enable
   direct funding to agencies using funds Increase flexibility in
   procurement requirements Create linkage between system performance and
   funding Enable two-way cross- funding between FHWA and Federal Transit
   Administration Revise State laws to allow for more flexibility Target
   funding to produce concrete results Federal Legislative Activities
   Identify and modify legislative components that govern the expenditure
   of funds on operations Revise Title 23 to allow for more flexibility
   and relevance Funding Options Provide dedicated funds for system
   operations Use CMAQ funds to initially accelerate operations program
   Target funding to specific problems, areas, or outcomes Establish a
   formula program for incident management Fund the institutional and
   technical infostructure necessary for regional collaboration
   Institutional ``table'' and leader Communications infrastructure System
   integration Data collection, sharing, and clearinghouse functions Fund
   regional operations support programs (training, collaboration,
   specification development, procurement, contract services) Operating
   agencies fund improvements based on local needs Operations funding
   should fund new or expanded initiatives, not ``maintenance of efforts''
   Customer satisfaction affects willingness to support new taxes 7.
   Federal Programs Process stream-lining Incentives not mandates Specific
   national initiatives (ex: 511) R&D needs Legislation Title 23 changes
   USDOT tracking New process guidelines Broaden existing ITS deployment
   tracking Coordinate with R&D programs Evaluate lessons learned from
   previous programs (TOPICS, TSM, CMS, ISTEA, TEA-21) Funding Fund
   one-time deployment and operations program to demonstrate value in
   high-impact fashion Protect discretionary portion of project funding
   when earmarks established Support additional R&D of data collection and
   use, technology for data collection, sampling, and simulation modeling
   to augment system performance data Include legislative language and
   targeted funding to public safety agencies New Programs Establish
   operations program in TEA-21 reauthorization; clearly define goals and
   objectives Create Security, Reliability, and Safety Program (homeland
   security element) Create public-private partnerships for data
   collection and provision (like National Weather Service) Create
   National Incident Management Program Avoid creation of liability for
   State and local agencies in new programs or regulations Should be bold
   in establishing new operations mission and program; State and local
   agencies will follow Federal leadership NDTO Outreach and Input Summit
   Input Issues Common Points of View Challenge Areas/ Questions Proposed
   Actions (Federal, Association, & Collective Responsibilities)
   Legislative Options Comments 8. Institutional Coordination
   Institutional Coordination (Continued) Institutional Coordination
   (Continued) Multiple stakeholders Involvement of non-transportation
   entities (e.g., public safety, media) Stovepiping within agencies Venue
   for regional operational coordination Critical role of champions New
   organizational arrangements - ROOs? Local/Federal government
   relationships? Support demonstration approaches? Designation of formal
   entity for operations coordination? Role of MPO in overseeing or
   leading coordination Adequacy of existing institutions?
   Federal/Association Actions Continue freight and public safety
   roundtables Continue discussion of ROOs Mainstream operations functions
   in associations Regional Actions/Goals Develop means of integrating
   goals and measures among multiple agencies Improve coordination within
   agencies as well as among agencies Bring all interests to table
   (freight, public safety, multiple modes) Strategies Approaches Consider
   Different Approaches Modify/improve existing institutions rather than
   creating new; encourage the evolution of new collaborative partnerships
   Create new institutional models to include operations requirements
   Increase transportation presence in existing or new public safety
   coordinating bodies (e.g., Governor's Office of Emergency Management)
   Initiating Cooperation/Bringing Groups to the Table Develop means to
   get and keep non-traditional partners involved by focusing on issues of
   mutual concern, and building on initial successes; provide them a
   meaningful piece of action; show support for their missions Build
   cooperation around triggering events or activities (e.g., incident or
   event management, emergency preparedness) to establish ongoing
   cooperation; leverage existing relationships Use system failure as
   opportunity to learn and improve; leverage public momentum Use scenario
   planning to jumpstart communication and expand focus over time Build
   around single, simple concept Inventory and promote existing
   multi-agency activities Institutionalizing Cooperation: Planning
   Develop an interagency strategic plan that defines: common vision,
   purpose, scope, goals, and resources, and tracks impacts and benefits
   Institutionalizing Cooperation: Performance Tracking and Promotion
   Establish ``report card'' on interagency cooperation; measure results
   and showcase successes Communication/Information Sharing Establish
   separate groups for technical and policy coordination Establish
   understanding of information value to partner agencies Establish data
   and communication protocols among agencies Co-locate public safety and
   transportation operations functions Other Create multi-agency training
   and personnel management programs Establish common frequencies among
   first responders Federal Legislation Create incentives for regional
   operations and collaboration coupled with sustainable funding sources
   Enable and encourage multi-agency resource sharing Enable alternative
   institutions to receive funds directly Specifications Encourage
   establishment of regional coordinating mechanisms prior to funding
   Options Support flexibility for different types of institutional models
   Give funding priority to regions demonstrating effective regional
   coordination; possibly create competitive incentive program Continue
   and expand Federal support for regional traffic incident management
   programs as a catalyst for regional cooperation Assign MPOs
   responsibility to ensure that regional coordination takes place, but
   not necessarily for leading effort Empower existing regional operating
   agencies (e.g., transit agencies) to provide coordination role Make
   institutional coordination a condition of Federal aid Institutions must
   be based on unique regional requirements and should not be prescribed
   at the Federal level Consider freight integration with regional
   planning process as a model May need to join public safety table rather
   than expecting public safety to join transportation table; MPO is part
   of transportation community Also need to consider coordination beyond
   defined regions, especially for ITS compatibility and freight movement
   9. Awareness and Education Awareness & Education (Continued) Awareness
   for policy makers and general public Education and training programs
   Best practices and professional exchanges Self-assessment
   Marketing/Promotion of Operations Develop communication program to
   promote operations among stakeholders at all levels (State, local,
   Federal) Market operations to the public Document benefits and success
   stories of performance measurement/ instrumentation targeted at
   decision makers Develop a broad outreach effort to attract young
   professionals to the transportation profession Tools/Best
   Practices/Success Stories Develop institutional best practices, model
   legislation Promotion of Resources/Tools Promote self-assessment tool
   Educate emergency response agencies (Department of Defense, FEMA) about
   transportation resources (Transportation Operations Centers,
   communication) Training, Internal Education Promote professional
   education through association meetings Promote operations emphasis in
   University Transportation Centers and other university programs Educate
   agency staff on internal value of performance measures and train to
   define and use Develop training for operations planning process Educate
   agency staff on customer service and interagency communication Enhance
   outreach, education, and training opportunities for all transportation
   personnel, including paraprofessionals and technicians; include
   multi-disciplinary training, communications Support leadership and
   exchange programs, such as peer to peer Support training and best
   practices provisions in legislation Marketing is not making the
   customer want what we have, it is finding out what the customer wants
   Need understandable language for Congress and officials APPENDIX B:
   ASSESSMENT OF LEGISLATIVE OPTIONS AND NON-LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS This
   appendix includes an assessment of Legislative Options and
   Non-Legislative Actions discussed at the Summit. The assessments are
   based on presentations made by two individuals, Mr. Mark Norman and Mr.
   John Mason, during the final session of the summit. These presentations
   were intended to summarize key summit findings. However, because they
   were presented before all findings had been compiled, they may not
   represent a comprehensive summary, nor are the views expressed
   necessarily those of the National Steering Committee or other
   sponsoring organization. The assessments are included here as a
   reference for readers to provide additional insights and perspectives
   on the Summit outcomes. LEGISLATIVE OPTIONS REPORT By Mark Norman The
   goal of the legislative presentations and "conversation circles" was to
   try to present a sense of the direction and context of any legislative
   changes that would enhance the ability of agencies to include
   operations as part of their core missions. The apparent consensus of
   participants was to support legislative actions that would (1) position
   operations to better compete in the existing broad, flexible funding
   categories, and (2) foster an "accelerated evolution" of the Federal
   program by putting one or more new targeted operations programs in
   place. Summit participants repeatedly pointed out that any recommended
   legislative initiatives and changes at the Federal level would need to
   flow down to the State and local levels in order to have real impact. A
   Two-Pronged Approach The positions of those involved in the funding and
   legislative discussions can be summarized as follows: on the one hand,
   many Summit participants expressed a desire for dedicated funding that
   would guarantee adequate, continual funding for operations; on the
   other hand, they wanted flexibility and no-strings-attached funding. As
   a result, support for a two-pronged approach for legislative action was
   articulated: Put agencies in a better position to include operations as
   part of their core missions by enhancing their ability to take
   advantage of the broad categorical funding programs that currently
   exist and are likely to exist in the future. These programs allow
   considerable flexibility for State and local agencies to make their own
   decisions. Implement one or more new targeted or directed smaller
   programs for operations improvements focused on security, reliability,
   and safety. Flexible Programs The Summit participants made the
   following observations and recommendations regard-ing current major
   funding programs, including the National Highway System (NHS), Surface
   Transportation Program (STP), Congestion Management/ Air Quality
   (CMAQ), and Transit funding: U.S. Code Title 23 and Title 49 should be
   reviewed and revised to expand and clarify eligibility for operations
   programs. Originally, these programs were intended to support capital
   construction projects. Summit participants recommended review and
   revision of the statutory language to include funding eligibility for
   operations programs. This wording must make clear to FHWA Division
   Admini-strators, MPOs, and State and local transportation agencies what
   programs - including operations improvements and ongoing costs in
   addition to capital construction to add new capacity - are eligible for
   funding. Support for operations funding in the Federal transportation
   statutes must be made clear to state and local agencies. Today, it is
   unclear to many State and local transportation agencies and MPOs what
   operational improvements or ongoing support are eligible for Federal
   funding. The current language is often inconsistent and needs to be
   clarified. The Federal program should be more performance-oriented to
   support increasing focus on performance and outcomes at the State,
   local, and regional levels. Today, most MPO requirements for
   programming of Federal funds are input-oriented: focused on accounting
   for multiple factors in determining projects for a TIP. Summit
   participants felt that focusing on and targeting funds for outcomes
   (e.g., congestion reduction and air-quality improvements) would result
   in opera-tions faring better in the competition for funds. The
   participants did not specifi-cally identify outcomes to target, but
   felt that State and local agencies, perhaps with Federal guidance,
   should determine those outcomes. The planning process for operations
   needs to be based on systems performance, rather than solely on capital
   projects. Some participants observed that transportation planners have
   become capital programmers, as opposed to true planners. We need to
   help them become true planners again. True planners are concerned with
   performance and the ultimate outcomes, not just inputs. The planning
   process must be altered to support a performance basis for allocation
   of all funding - capital and operations. Federal legislation should
   foster "accelerated evolution." Looking back, discussions of Federal
   legislation in 1980 debated whether to include reconstruction and
   rehabilitation in the definition of construc-tion projects. Today,
   these concepts are accepted; in fact, most current funding is not spent
   on new construction or facilities; it is spent on reconstruction and
   rehabilitation of existing facilities. The point has been made many
   times, and was restated at this conference, that funding for operations
   at the Federal level has been evolutionary. Many participants, however,
   also supported stimuli that could foster acceleration in this
   evolution. Targeted Programs The "second prong" of new legislative
   initiatives to support transportation operations consists of smaller
   programs targeted to specific operations needs. These needs are
   clustered around a new acronym coined at the Summit: "SRS," for
   Security, Reliability, and Safety. The SRS concept seemed to be
   overwhelmingly accepted by participants by the Summit's conclusion.
   There was considerable support for a targeted program that would
   consist of the following elements that are the common foundations to
   improving performance of our system in terms of security, reliability,
   and safety. Incident management: Fostering regional programs to help
   assure timely and coordinated responses to natural and man-made events.
   Data coverage: Implementing a surveil-lance system that would, as a
   minimum, cover the NHS. Real-time information to and from customers:
   Providing the infrastructure and info-structure necessary to give users
   of the system real-time information when and where they need it.
   Regional cooperation and partnerships: Fostering new and supporting
   existing efforts to bring partners in transportation operations to the
   table, and helping these efforts evolve into robust, sustainable
   operational partnerships. Finally, it was emphasized that this should
   not be a ``capital improvements'' versus ``operations'' issue. Both
   will be needed. Thus support was expressed for a targeted pro-gram to
   alleviate congestion bottlenecks. The American Highway Users Alliance
   has identified over 100 critical nationwide bottlenecks. Addressing
   these bottlenecks will require a combination of operations improvements
   and new construction. Non-Legislative Actions Report By John Mason At
   the conference welcome, Frank Francois charged us with three tasks - to
   identify: Common ground New activities and arrangements needed to
   advance transportation operations Areas needing substantial thought or
   consideration. Steve Lockwood offered us a framework for our discussion
   in his synthesis of issues identified to date. This framework involves
   nine issue areas: Need for operations Performance focus Program scope
   Planning for operations Cultural change Resource implications Federal
   programs Institutional transformation Awareness and education. Mark
   Norman spoke to the potential legislative options that might evolve
   from our discussion of these issues. I will speak to the
   non-legislative actions that should be considered. As we come to a
   close of this summit discussion, its important to empha-size the
   progress that has been made, so my remarks will be organized in each
   area to identify ``common ground'' and ``areas needing further
   attention.'' Issue #1 - Need for Operations Common ground Agreement
   exists on the need to address the operations issue and incorporate it
   into how we think about transportation. This is a non-trivial statement
   as it suggests a fundamental shift in thinking within the community.
   Areas needing further consideration Semantics is also a non-trivial
   issue. The word ``operations'' may not be the best choice (as suggested
   by Jack Goldstein and others). We must identify a term that resonates
   with Capitol Hill and is meaningful to decision makers. As a personal
   observation, I suggest we pay attention to the distinction between
   thinking about operations at the strategic level (e.g., State and
   regional planning for operations in a way that affects the concept of
   opera-tions for a State or region, such as different ways of thinking
   about resource allocation) versus the tactical level (e.g., maintenance
   scheduling, snow removal, specific events). Issue #2 - Performance
   Focus Common ground Operations should be oriented on outcomes rather
   than outputs. Elected officials like to know what the ``deliv-erables''
   are for the programs they support. It should have a performance focus,
   based on customer expectations. This performance focus should reflect
   multiple concerns, from the obvious mobility concerns to tour-ism, etc.
   For example, in Louisiana, tourism is the number two element of the
   economy; in New Orleans, it is number one. Obviously, this should be a
   consideration in measuring performance of the system. The Federal
   government should not prescribe solutions. No ``one shoe fits all.''
   The Federal government should encourage prototypes and transfer of
   knowledge and expertise. Areas needing further consideration
   Understanding cost/benefit aspects of considerations Determining how
   best to pursue developing performance focus Developing a ``cookbook''
   or ``menu'' of performance measures. Issue #3 - Program Scope Common
   ground Here the common ground is less clear because there was so little
   discussion of the issue. In Steve Lockwood's discus-sion, he suggested
   a scope that included: Routine traffic and transit operations Ad hoc
   public safety responses Planned construction disruptions Incident
   management Network and facility management Traveler and shipper
   information. Steve's scope parallels the working definition that was
   used in the Local Dialogue Sessions. Areas needing further
   consideration Program scope needs further consider-ation. In effect,
   scope defines what we are talking about. It will be very import-ant as
   we move forward. It is key, for example, in considering funding. Scope
   also needs to consider geography - regional, corridor, State, etc.
   Issue #4 - Planning for Operations Common ground There is a fundamental
   challenge in incorporating operations into a larger process. In doing
   so we want to avoid stovepiping operations responsibilities. We have
   limited experience in doing this. Areas needing further consideration
   How to include operations in the resource allocation process Developing
   an operations planning process to include definitions of operations.
   Issue #5 - Cultural Change Common ground A new mindset is critical to
   success. Areas needing further consideration How to ``mainstream''
   operations in existing processes How to make operations a core agency
   mission How to articulate the operations agenda. Issue #6 - Resource
   Implications Common ground It comes as no surprise that everyone wants
   more funding. There was much discussion about ``cat and mouse.'' Areas
   needing further consideration How best to provide funds - categorical,
   flexible, etc. How best to articulate the need. We need to clearly
   articulate our need for resources in a way that makes sense to
   Congress. Congress will respond differently to a request for money to
   fix potholes than to for a request to fund planning for operations. We
   heard a caution not to put too much emphasis on the topic of homeland
   security, as this may be a short-term goal. How best to apply
   partnership and matching funds. Issue #7 - Federal Programs Common
   ground The Federal role is one of helping regions get things done, not
   in creating products. This represents a cultural shift for USDOT. The
   Federal role as defined in this Summit includes providing: Incentives -
   not mandates Extensive education and training at all levels R&D Best
   practices. Areas needing further consideration Fleshing out of
   concepts. Issue #8 - Institutional Transformation Common ground The
   concept of a common table emerged as a useful way of describing an
   inclusive institutional process that involves multiple players (e.g.,
   road-way transportation, bicycle and pedestrian, public safety,
   transit, etc.). Getting all the players to the ``table'' is a key
   consideration. Whose table it is is less important, as long as there is
   common ground among participants. Areas needing further consideration
   Joe Sussman called for a ``funda-mental rethinking of our
   transport-ation organizations for the future.'' Ron Kirby argued for
   clear assign-ment of an operations mission (and related funding) to a
   specific entity, such as an MPO. We may need to consider different
   models (e.g., Regional Operating Organizations (ROOs)). My personal
   view is that some entity, perhaps the MPO, needs to be assign-ed the
   regional task of determining who will take the lead in operations
   planning. Issue # 9 - Awareness and Education Common ground We clearly
   recognize the need for education and outreach. We cannot achieve our
   goal without it. Areas needing further consideration Extensive effort
   is needed to develop a program that reaches different targets, ranging
   from students to senior officials. We must use language targeted at
   each. We also need to engage our organ-izations and advocacy groups in
   this outreach effort. Summary Much common ground has been established;
   perhaps most important, the fundamental need for getting operations
   into the planning and resource allocation process. The focus of a
   future action agenda should include: Clarifying what we mean by
   ``operations'' and identifying the preferred term Addressing how to
   accomplish the actions we have identified. Italics indicate material
   from the National Summit. Regular text indicates material from
   pre-Summit activities as summarized by Steve Lockwood. At these
   sessions, operations was defined as including (1) scheduled/recurring
   activities (e.g., preventive maintenance, signal retiming, snow
   removal); (2) planned disruptions (e.g., work zones); (3)
   unscheduled/non-recurring disruptions (e.g., incidents, accidents,
   unanticipated repairs); (4) special events (e.g., Olympics, sporting
   events, inaugurals); (5) real-time transportation system management
   (e.g., traveler information, ramp metering, lane controls). Equates
   funding programs to the desired entities (mouse) that agencies (cats)
   will chase. Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation
   Operations Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation
   Operations Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation
   Operations 11 Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation
   Operations Proceedings of the National Summit on Transportation
   Operations
