http://www.mocbhe.gov/cbhe/bdmem.htm

   If you do not have JavaScript enabled or are using an older browser you
   will not be able to view our page correctly. Please proceed to our Text
   Only Version.

   Higher Education Seal jpg Missouri Department of Higher Education gif
   banner gif
   About Us | Calendar | Employment  | Text Only  |  Contact Us | MO State
   Page
   Home | Help Desk/FAQ | Life Sciences in Higher Education

   dividing_line

                        Coordinating Board for Higher
                              Education Members
     __________________________________________________________________

                                                                     Chair

   Mrs. Marie Carmichael

                                                                Vice Chair

   Ms. Sandra D. Kauffman

                                                                 Secretary

   Mr. James F. Summers, Jr.

                                                                    Member

   Mr. John F. Bass

                                                                    Member

   Dr. Diana M. Bourisaw

                                                                    Member

   Mrs. Mary K. Findley

                                                                    Member

   Mr. Adam B. Fischer

                                                                    Member

   Ms. Dudley R. Grove

                                                                    Member

   Mrs. Mary Joan Wood

   Marie Carmichael Marie Carmichael has served two terms as Chairman of
   the Board and one term as vice chairman. She holds a BA degree in
   English from Pittsburg State University (Kansas) and an MA degree in
   English from the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, where she was
   awarded a graduate fellowship. She has taught English at the college
   level (University of Arkansas) and at the high school level
   (Springfield Public Schools). During the past few years, Mrs.
   Carmichael has been actively involved in promoting collaboration
   between higher education and K-12. She served on the state's first K-16
   Coalition which focused on improving student achievement in mathematics
   through the joint efforts of K-12 and higher education. She presently
   serves on the newly formed K-16 Task Force which is focused on the
   issue of eliminating achievement gaps. Additionally, she serves as
   Chair of the Missouri Advanced Placement Advisory Board. In
   Springfield, where she resides, Mrs. Carmichael serves on the Community
   Advisory Board to the College of Education at SMSU and is also a member
   of the Greenwood Laboratory School Advisory Board. She and her husband,
   Joe, have two children. She is a Realtor, and is part-owner of a real
   estate development company. back to top gif
   John F. Bass John F. Bass is a former Missouri senator for the city of
   St. Louis. He held this Missouri State Senate position from 1981 to
   1991. Prior to serving as a state senator, Bass was responsible for
   administering the budget of the city of St. Louis as St. Louis
   Comptroller from 1973 to 1977. From 1991 to 1995, Bass provided his
   expertise and administrative abilities while working as a staff member
   for committees of the U.S. House of Representatives in Washington, D.C.
   He worked as a staff director and senior executive for the House
   Subcommittee on Libraries and Memorials, with oversight
   responsibilities for the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy
   Performing Arts Center and the Division of Congressional Research --
   the "think tank" for the U.S. Congress. Bass was consultant to the U.S.
   Office of Education and the Department of Labor. He also was a staff
   member of the Oversight Committee, U.S. House Committee on
   Administration, responsible for House operations, investigations,
   staffing and public policy. Bass has served as an educator, counselor
   and administrator in the St. Louis public schools and has been a member
   of the faculty and staff of the University of Missouri-St. Louis and
   the University of Missouri-Kansas City. He has been a guest professor
   at Harris-Stowe State College and is active in numerous professional
   and civic organizations. Bass served in the U.S. Navy. He received a
   B.A. in business and school administration from Lincoln University, and
   M.A. in counseling and school administration from Washington
   University, and has taken postgraduate courses in the St. Louis area.
   Bass resides in St. Louis and has one daughter. back to top gif
   Diane M. Bourisaw

   Diana M. Bourisaw, Imperial, is currently working on two national
   initiatives to develop schools throughout the country. One is a program
   funded by Bill and Melinda Gates to develop 12 small model high
   schools. The other is a faith-based initiative to develop schools in
   urban areas to aid poor and minority children. She has held a number of
   positions in K-12 education, including superintendent, principal,
   assistant principal, consultant, dean of students, teacher, and school
   board member. She is involved in various community organizations and
   has been honored for her service in K-12 education. She holds a B.S.,
   B.S.E., and M.A. from Northeast Missouri State University and a Ph.D.
   in educational administration from Iowa State University.

   back to top gif
   Mary K. Findley Mary K. Findley is past Chairman of the Coordinating
   Board for Higher Education and is serving her second six-year
   appointment.   She serves on the Board of Directors for Women Aware, an
   organization dedicated to providing educational and business
   opportunities to out-state women.  She is past conference director and
   president.  She serves on the presidential advisory board at Three
   Rivers Community College and holds a B.S. in English and an M.A. in
   secondary school administration from Southeast Missouri State
   University. Mary is a founder and charter member of Academic Assistance
   Inc., a booster club to support academics at Poplar Bluff High School.
   She is past president and editor of the Academic Newsletter.   Mary has
   a Missouri Realtors license and is the agent/manager of the Poplar
   Bluff License office, contracted to the Missouri Department of Revenue,
   where she is serving her second term as chairman of the Statewide Fee
   Agents Advisory Board.  She is a member of Sacred Heart Catholic Church
   and serves on the parish council where she chairs the Long Range
   Planning/Facilities Use Committee. back to top gif
   Adam B. Fischer

   Adam B. Fischer established a private law practice in 1968,
   specializing in the areas of corporate, trusts, and estates. He has
   provided legal service to municipal-, county-, and state-level
   government. He was an assistant professor in the law enforcement
   department at Central Missouri State University and a special
   instructor in criminal law at the Missouri State Highway Patrol Academy
   in Rolla. He has served as President of the Pettis County Bar
   Association, President of the Attorneys' Committee for the Missouri
   League of Savings Institutions, and Special Investigator for the
   Disciplinary Committee of the Missouri Bar Association. He has been
   active in professional and community organizations through his service
   on various boards and committees, including the University of Missouri
   Board of Curators. He holds a B.S. and J.D. from Saint Louis
   University. He and his wife, Joyce, have two daughters and reside in
   Sedalia. back to top gif
   Dudley Grove Dudley Grove is a former elementary school teacher with a
   long history of volunteer service and 20 years of experience consulting
   and training non-profit organizations.  She is a member of the
   Metropolitan Association for Philanthropy Board, the Whitaker
   Foundation Board and the Chancellor's Council for the University of
   Missouri-St. Louis and is chair of the Employment Committee of the
   Urban League.  She was a Danforth Leadership Program fellow and holds
   an M.B.A. from the University of Missouri-St. Louis. back to top gif
   Sandra Kauffman Sandra Kauffman was a member of the Missouri House of
   Representatives from 1986 until 1998, serving on the House Budget
   Committee (1991-98) and the House Appropriations-Education and Public
   Safety Committee (1989-98), among others.  During her legislative
   tenure, she also served on the Missouri Business and Education
   Partnership Commission and was president of the Women Legislators of
   Missouri.  She served on the Center #58 Board of Education from 1977
   until 1986 and as the board president from 1979 until 1984.  She
   received a B.A. from the University of Nebraska and attended the
   University of Kansas City. back to top gif
   Jim Summers, Jr. Jim Summers, Jr. is owner of The Prudential, Summers,
   Realtors. He is a past director of the Missouri Association of Realtors
   and the former president of the Missouri Western State College Board of
   Regents. He served on the Missouri Western board from January 1983
   until April 1990. Mr. Summers has been in a number of civic
   organizations and is a trustee of the Townsend Educational Trust and
   the Calla E. Varner Education Foundation. Mr. Summers has a B.S. and an
   M.Ed. from the University of Missouri-Columbia. back to top gif
   Mary Joan Wood Mary Joan Wood is a private contractor for speech
   language pathology. She is a member of the American
   Speech-Language-Hearing Association and the Missouri
   Speech-Language-Hearing Association. She has a B.H.S. in communication
   disorders and M.H.S. in communication science and disorders from the
   University of Missouri-Columbia. She and her husband, Gary, have five
   children and reside in Cairo. Her term of office as a board member is
   April 1998 through June 2002. back to top gif

                               thin banner gif
   Missouri Department of Higher Education, 3515 Amazonas Dr.,  Jefferson
                            City, MO  65109-5717
   Phone: 573-751-2361 Fax: 573-751-6635 MOSTARS Information Center: (800)
                                  473-6757
          Technical questions about the Web site please contact us.

   This page was last updated Fri, 11 Jan 2002 15:09:26
