http://www.nssg.gov/About_Us/about_us.htm

   [reports.gif]

   Thank you for visiting the website of the U.S. Commission on National
   Security/21st Century. We are chartered to provide the most
   comprehensive government-sponsored review of U.S. national security in
   more than 50 years. What does that mean?

   Broader Than Youd ThinkWhile most analyses of national security have
   focused on U.S. military capabilities and on our diplomatic efforts, we
   look at things a bit differently.  We think that technological
   advances, the education of Americas youth, and commercial relationships
   are all crucial to the Americas security. When we have looked at
   alternative futures for the United States and the world through 2025
   [link to Phase I report, possibly with graphics from the report cover]
   and at the role the United States should play in that world [link to
   Phase II report, possible with graphics from the report cover], we have
   explicitly considered these non-traditional components of national
   security.

   The Commission has recently released its Phase III Report, Road Map for
   National Security: Imperative for Change. The Phase III Report
   addresses a broad range of issues, from securing the national homeland
   to redesigning government institutions and examining human requirements
   for national security, including the role of Congress. The Commission
   has proposed serious solutions to serious problems and invites you to
   weigh in your opinions on the issues that will affect you, your
   community and the country in the coming century.

   We have designed this website not only to tell you what the Commission
   has worked on, but also to get your feedback. While we have just
   completed the critical final phase of our work, we are interested in
   your views and reactions. What do you think of the issues we addressed?
   Tell us your experiences.

    a.   If you are a current or former member of the military or
   government employee, we want to know what you think needs to be done to
   ensure that these groups work effectively.
    b.   If you have a background in information technology, tell us how
   you think government can better use todays and tomorrows technologies
   and how it can entice IT professionals to work in government service.
    c.   If you are a student, weigh in with your assessment of whether
   student loan repayments would entice you to work for the government or
   to join the military.
    d.   If you are a parent, student or teacher, tell us what you think
   about Americas education system, and what we can do about it.
    e.   And if you are just an interested citizen, we want to know what
   you think about any of these issues.  They affect your future as much
   as they do those within the Washington policy-making community.

   We hope you enjoy learning more about the Commission throughout this
   site.We look forward to engaging in your debates!  Please join us.
   about us
   [charter.gif]
   [people.gif]
   [b2.gif]
   [b3.gif]

    Welcome to the U.S. Commission on National Security/21st Century Web
                                    Site.

   [white.gif]
   [b1.gif]
