http://www.dayafss.jccbi.gov/satnav12.pdf

   GPS Aids World Trade Center In this issue: GPS Aids WTC Recovery
   Recovery Effort Effort....................1 By Shelby Wheeler, GPS TAC
   Coastal Waypoints to Enhance VFR Flight........2 Itís hard to imagine a
   Industry Spotlight: WAAS crime scene the size of the and Agricultural
   Aviation....3 World Trade Center. By Satellite Navigation-Helping now,
   most of us have to Meet Environmental heard the statistics; mil-
   Requirements.....................4 lions of tons of rubble en-
   compassing a vast 16-acre The WAAS and PRN 22......5 site. Indeed, the
   recovery LAAS Testing at the Univer- effort at ground zero is no sity
   of Oklahoma...................6 small task. RNAV Route Develop-
   ment...................7 In fact, within a week of the WTC disaster,
   the Fire Department of New York (FDNY) was waiving the white General
   Comments on the flag. The recovery method being used was just not
   working. Firefighters were tagging Characteristics of Test and items
   and jotting down descriptions and information regarding the date, time,
   and Evaluation of Augmented GPS for NAS.........................7
   estimated location by hand, often guessing on an itemís ìexactî
   location. This was not an easy task on such an immense site, containing
   few landmarks and changing Global Positioning System every day. The
   items were assigned a tracking number, and transported to the land-
   Approach Minima Estimator fill, warehouse, or medical examinerís
   office. The information was then manually
   (GAME)..........................9 entered into a database, in order to
   track the items found. This process was laborious Navigation
   Workshop.........9 and inefficient, and often resulted in mismatched
   tracking numbers and inaccurate location data. Code-Carrier Coherence
   (CCC) Monitor..................10 Considering the importance of the
   exact location of evidence to fire officials, engi- New Special Copter
   RNAV neers, and the ongoing criminal investigation, the battalion chief
   in charge of the Approaches and Departure recovery effort, Joseph W.
   Pfiefer, started looking for a better way. On September 19, Procedures
   Under Develop- ment in California................12 the ground-zero
   team met with numerous technology companies to discuss possible
   technological solutions. Results of Early LORAN-C Modernization
   Testing.......12 The solutions selected by the FDNY, along with other
   Federal and state agencies, The Lighter Side...........14 were
   hand-held computers and bar codes, from Symbol Technologies, and global
   po- sitioning satellite applications and real-time tracking database,
   from Links Point, Inc. 2 Within three days, Links Point created
   database software developed and are being published on Sectional Charts
   to run on the Symbol PPT 2800, a modified handheld rug- along the
   coastal areas from Gulfport, Mississippi to Eliza- ged enough to
   withstand heat, dust, and long hours. Us- beth City, North Carolina.
   The VFR Coastal Waypoints ing the PPT 2800 with a GPS attachment,
   firefighters se- Project, which has been enthusiastically endorsed by
   the lect a description of the item found and can automatically Aircraft
   Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) and State capture the time, date,
   and location of the item with an Department of Aviation
   representatives, has been selected accuracy of three to nine feet.
   Additionally, the firefighters by the Government and Industry
   Aeronautical Charting are able to tag the items with a barcode and scan
   that Forum to establish VFR waypoints as a unique naviga- barcode with
   the device in order to match the item with tional tool for VFR
   operations. the electronic record. The data is then uploaded directly
   from the handheld and connected with a database, which VFR waypoints
   have been developed to ease navigation uses Geographic Information
   System (GIS) technology for VFR pilots using Global Positioning System
   (GPS) for with mapping software. supplemental navigation; operating
   around, under, and between airspace, which may require ATC clearance or
   In the past, GPS has not worked very well in Manhattan, be restricted
   from their operation. These waypoints will due to the canyon effect of
   the cityís skyscrapers. How- provide pilots with an additional tool to
   improve situational ever, the large space created by the WTCís collapse
   has awareness. VFR waypoints will allow pilots to fly from opened up
   the skyline enough for sufficient signal recep- point to point on
   sectional charts using pre-programmed tion. The exceptions to this are
   some of the outlying edges waypoints to avoid congested terminal areas
   or special- of the site, where GPS coverage stops. To remedy this use
   airspace. situation, officials are examining the idea of erecting an
   antenna across the highway from the site, on 3 World Fi- Each VFR
   waypoint will be assigned a discrete non-pro- nancial Center, which
   would improve reception of the sat- nounceable five-letter
   identification beginning with the ellitesí signals in those areas.
   letters ìVP,î which will be added to navigational data- bases for
   flight planning use. The waypoints will be de- In addition to the
   tireless New York firefighters and res- picted on sectional charts
   using the familiar Instrument cue workers, GPS, along with other
   cutting-edge tech- Flight Rules (IFR) waypoint symbol. VFR waypoints
   may nologies, is lending a helping hand in the effort to ìget be
   collocated with a Visual Check Point, in which case back to normal.î
   With the new technology in place, data only the magenta flag will be
   depicted with the five-letter capture rates have increased and data
   errors have de- identification. VFR waypoint identifications should not
   creased. The FDNY now has accurate location informa- be used in
   pilot/controller communications other than tion on all items recovered
   from the site, and the human those collocated with a Visual Check
   Point, where the error associated with the manual tagging of items and
   in- checkpoint name is used. VFR waypoints will also be listed put of
   data has been eliminated. It seems technology has on the flap of the
   appropriate sectional chart and in the come to the rescue.
   Airport/Facility Directory (AFD). Coastal Waypoints to VFR waypoints
   have been in use on terminal area charts (TAC) and helicopter route
   charts in various parts of the Enhance VFR Flight country since 1999.
   This is the first time they will be pub- lished on sectional charts.
   Sectional charts depicting VFR By Jack Schroeter, GPS TAC / Southern
   Region (ASO-520) waypoints will be New Orleans, Jacksonville, and Miami
   B with charting cycles after November 1, 2001. VFR eginning this
   winter, VFR pilots transiting the coastal waypoints will be published
   on the Charlotte and Wash- areas of the southeastern United States will
   have a new ington sectional charts in early 2002. tool for navigation.
   Sixty-eight VFR waypoints have been 3 Industry Spotlight WAAS and
   Agricultural Aviation thunderstorms. Since the operating aircraft might
   be as far as 100 By Shelby Wheeler, GPS TAC miles from the transmitter,
   thunderstorm activity over any part of the I area surrounding the
   transmitter could cause loss of signal integrity,î n an August 24, 2000
   press release, the Federal Aviation Adminis- says Mr. Kornegay. tration
   announced the availability of the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS)
   for some aviation and all non-aviation uses. The Mr. Kornegay adds,
   ìRecently, several companies have begun trans- 21-day stability test
   that had been conducted prior to this declaration mitting differential
   correction information using satellites as signal demonstrated required
   system stability, allowing immediate use of repeaters. This enables the
   agricultural aircraft operator to work the WAAS signal by a broad range
   of users. WAAS continues to be anywhere with one subscription, usually
   costing about $800 per year developed to provide the necessary
   integrity for the WAAS-required per aircraft. The problem encountered
   with this service has been the safety-critical applications. Until the
   system design is completed and instability in the market, with several
   companies ceasing to exist, and initial operational capability is
   declared, the WAAS is not an ap- the discontinuation of the original
   ìCî band system. These events proved source of aircraft navigation
   under instrument flight rules have caused operators to buy new
   receivers and change service com- (IFR), the release states. panies on
   several occasions, sometimes resulting in revenue losses when the
   changes occurred mid-season.î However, WAAS is currently being used in
   many different applica- tions, such as agriculture, surveying, marine
   application, military, and ìThe advent of the WAAS system has finally
   given agricultural avia- data collection, just to name a few. WAAS has
   become an integral tion a secure, stable system of differential
   correction that is available part of its usersí guidance systems, and
   the agricultural aviation in- throughout the United States. There are
   no annual fees associated dustry is no exception. with its use, and the
   accuracy is excellent,î says Kornegay. Truly this has benefited many
   users. According to Ron Deck of Sky Tractor Satloc, a CSI wireless
   company, has been in the business of providing Supply, a former NAAA
   official, ìWAAS is very important to the guidance systems and
   differential GPS (DGPS) receivers for the past users in the upper Red
   River Valley in North Dakota and Minnesota nine years to markets all
   over the world, and is the leading provider of because we are over 180
   miles from the nearest 300khz tower; too far DGPS guidance systems in
   the aerial application industry. Since the to give us consistent
   accuracy. The paid subscription for most farm beginning, Satloc has
   expanded into a number of other DGPS guid- users in the tight ag-market
   just isnít a viable choice.î ance markets, but aerial application is
   still a primary focus. ìWe have been providing receivers that use the
   WAAS signal to the industry WAAS acceptance in the agricultural
   aviation industry ìis strong,î for over two years now,î says Greg
   Guyette, Director of Sales (Air according to Greg Guyette at Satloc.
   ìWAAS is an instrumental part Division) for Satloc/ CSI Wireless. of
   most usersí guidance systems and without its continued use, there would
   be some dramatic changes that would need to take place that Satloc
   established its roots in the agricultural aerial applications field,
   would be highly inconvenient and costly to todayís ag pilot,î he adds.
   in which the GPS guidance market rapidly expanded after its intro-
   duction in 1992. DGPS guidance systems soared in popularity in this
   WAAS user satisfaction in the agricultural aviation industry is very
   community due to the marketís willingness to try new technological
   strong, for that matter. Dennie Stokes, an NAAA official says ìThe
   enhancements and their eagerness for efficiency in the work place. WAAS
   signal has been our most reliable source this year. As opera- tors
   upgrade their equipment and purchase new GPS equipment, I The
   agricultural user has, indeed, tried numerous new technological think
   WAAS will dominate the market. WAAS in my opinion is the enhancements
   to improve aircraft guidance. Pat Kornegay, presi- best source of GPS
   correction in the ag-industry.î dent of the National Agricultural
   Aviation Association (NAAA) ìSatloc has thousands of WAAS receivers in
   operation today and and 28-year veteran ag-pilot states, ìIn the
   beginning, a locally trans- nearly all feedback is positive. The
   accuracy of the WAAS with a mitted differential source was used by
   ag-pilots, which entailed the Satloc SLXg receiver has certainly proven
   to be highly accurate (sub- installation of a GPS receiver, computer
   system, and differential trans- meter) and reliable. We have collected
   a great deal of data support- mitter. Despite system accuracy, the
   limited range necessitated hun- ing this case, and we continue to
   monitor performance,î says Guyette. dreds of stations across the
   country. Unfortunately, in many cases ì The SLXg Receiver with WAAS is
   a part of many ag-usersí every- each station was on a separate
   frequency, and a different band, so day necessities,î he adds. aircraft
   were limited to a 40-mile operational radius. For operators working
   multiple locations, it was necessary to install several receiv- ìAll of
   the primary manufacturers of DGPS equipment for agricul- ers and pay
   several differential fees. In most cases the cost of differ- tural
   aviation are currently offering WAAS receivers as standard ential
   service was in excess of $1000 per receiver per yearî equipment. There
   have been no apparent problems with the system and it has attained
   widespread acceptance throughout the industry,î In 1995, the Coast
   Guard low frequency differential service became says Pat Kornegay,
   adding, ìApproximately 90 per cent of all agricul- available, and began
   its use by agricultural aircraft in areas where tural aircraft in the
   United States utilize DGPS guidance and a large transmitters were
   maintained. ìThis service, although free, is limited portion of them
   have converted to WAAS. In the very near future, to areas in the
   vicinity of navigable waterways, and the low fre- WAAS will probably
   become the primary source for ag-aviation, if it quency band used is
   susceptible to electromagnetic interference from has not already done
   so.î 4 Satellite Navigation- ROD directed aircraft to track RWY heading
   to approxi- mately 2 miles then turn left to track 235 degrees over
   Helping to Meet Environ- industrial areas and a designated green space
   located southwest of the city. (See figure 1.1) mental Requirements In
   addition to the 235-degree track identified in the ROD, By Joe
   Bellabona, GPS TAC / New England Region (ANE-520) a capture corridor
   was designed to measure and monitor W flight track compliance. (See
   figure 1.2) This funnel- e are all aware of the extraordinary
   navigation capabil- shaped corridor was designed beginning with a
   throat just ity of GPS. GPS has been the panacea to many aviation 1400
   feet wide with an end point of 6300 feet wide. The navigation problems
   and the aviation community has ag- departure procedure requires a
   climbing aircraft to turn gressively applied this new technology in
   many ways. In approximately 35 degrees to hit a target just 1400 feet
   wide 1998, the New England Region Air Traffic Division decided several
   miles from the runway. This maneuver is difficult to capitalize on the
   unprecedented accuracy of GPS. Air- to do even using outside visual
   ground references. This is craft departing RWY 27 at Logan
   International Airport in comparable to a precision approach ILS, where
   full-scale Boston, MA, fly over highly populated areas of metropoli-
   deflection at the RWY end is just 700 feet wide, however tan Boston. In
   1996, a Boston RWY 27 Environmental Im- an aircraft on an ILS approach
   is stabilized with straight pact Statement (EIS) Record of Decision
   (ROD) was signed in-course guidance. that directed RWY 27 departures to
   fly a specific ground track to minimize noise to the underlying
   communities. The Also, notice the series of lettered gates A through E.
   These gates provide a means of measuring the progress of aircraft
   within the corridor. The ROD requires that 68% of the flight tracks
   pass through each of the corridor gates. This type of accuracy is out
   of the reach of most conventional navigational capabilities. In
   addition, ground based Navaids are not conveniently aligned to provide
   course navigation through the corridor. Therefore, a Vector De- parture
   Procedure was initially utilized. Even after adjust- ing departure
   headings, the vector departure met with limited success; what was
   needed was a navigational aid to provide all weather capability to
   remain within the cor- ridor. Figure 1.1 The original WYLYY FMS
   Departure procedure was pub- lished in February 1998. This procedure
   provided the first method to accurately navigate through the departure
   cor- ridor in all weather conditions. Early results were less than
   satisfactory. Many variables impacted the first FMS procedure such as a
   Jeppesen waypoint coding error, pilot technique, and aircraft with
   early FMS navigation equip- ment; non-SatNav. Each revision to the
   WYLYY has im- proved the operations of the procedure and compliance to
   the ROD. Northwest Airlines (NWA) has been instru- mental in helping to
   improve operations and compliance. NWA briefed their crews on the
   importance of departure Figure 1.2 compliance. In addition, NWA
   established pilot proce- 5 dures to arm their aircraft FMS lateral
   navigation (LNAV) communities surrounding Boston Logan International
   Air- prior to take off then aggressively follow their flight direc-
   port can benefit from the extraordinary navigation capa- tor command
   bars. The results of a NWA study showed a bility of SatNav. 20 percent
   improvement in corridor compliance that almost meets the ROD objectives
   of 68 percent compliance. (See The WAAS and PRN 22 figure 1.3) By Bill
   Klepczynski, GPS TAC / WAAS Team (AND-730) The basic premise for the
   existence of the WAAS is that GPS, by itself, cannot promptly provide
   the information to commercial air navigation users that a problem has
   oc- curred. On July 28, 2001 this conjecture was proven to be true. At
   about 10:08 p.m. on July 28, the rubidium clock on the GPS satellite
   designated as PRN 22 began to fail. Failure of a clock on board a
   satellite is a matter of great concern because it affects the ability
   of user navigation sets to correctly determine their range to a
   satellite and, consequently, their position. Figure 1.3 A navigation
   receiver needs to measure or determine its range to four different
   satellites in order to get a position fix. A three-dimensional position
   fix yields latitude, lon- Since the WYLYY 3 has shown potential for
   full ROD com- gitude and altitude. The navigation receiver determines
   pliance through all corridor gates and NWA recommenda- its range to a
   satellite by measuring the offset of the clock tions for changes, the
   departure was revised and the WYLYY that is within the userís receiver
   to each of the satellite 4 was published on November 1, 2001. The WYLYY
   4 Pilot clocks to which it is measuring its range. It must be kept RNAV
   departure procedure is authorized for all E, F, and G in mind that each
   of the satellite clocks is a free-running aircraft. The revised
   departure incorporates a NWA rec- clock and has a unique offset and
   frequency that differs ommendation and a TARGETS modeling study to move
   from all the other clocks in the system. It is the task of the the
   first waypoint ìGARVYî to help acquire greater accu- GPS Master Control
   Station (MCS) to determine and racy for aircraft flying through the
   1400-ft throat. The final model the performance of each satellite clock
   with re- answer for improved noise abatement compliance is for all
   spect to some uniform time scale. In this case, the uni- operators to
   develop pilot procedures that mirror NWA op- form time scale is GPS
   System Time. The parameters that erations. As all operators upgrade and
   equip with FMS are used by the model to describe the performance of
   each that have SatNav sensors, even greater accuracy can be satellite
   clock with respect to GPS System Time are trans- expected. mitted
   within the navigation message coming from each satellite and used by
   the receiver to determine its range The success of the WYLYY FMS RNAV
   departure to en- to each satellite. hance operations and noise
   abatement has paved the way for Boston ATCT to design RNAV departure
   procedures It is important to keep in mind that one of the errors that
   for all runways. The ìBEANN Town Departureî has been contribute to the
   accuracy of a position fix is the ability to proposed as a single
   graphic departure design for all run- correctly model the performance
   of a satellite clock with ways at Boston. This single graphic prototype
   is currently respect to GPS System Time. The satellite clock governs
   under study by the Boston Procedures Office and will be the
   transmission of the navigation message. The naviga- published after
   charting and automation issues are resolved. tion message from each
   satellite must be transmitted on When the BEANN Town Departure is
   published, then other time with respect to GPS System Time if the user
   is to 6 correctly determine its position. If a sat- nown for his work
   with solar-powered and ellite clock goes awry and deviates from Figure
   1.1 battery-powered cars, directs a team of its modeled performance,
   then the navi- graduate students who conduct the test- gation message
   will not be transmitted on ing. time, resulting in an error in the
   user-de- termined position. The approach and departure procedures are
   primarily flown at Max Westheimer air- This is exactly what happened on
   July 28th: port in Norman, Oklahoma (See Figure The clock on the GPS
   satellite PRN 22 1.1) where an airfield has been configured failed.
   Unfortunately, the failure occurred with three LAAS receiver stations.
   (See in a region where the GPS MCS was not Figure 1.2) Dr. Fagan and
   his team have able to monitor its performance and, used their solar car
   experience with solar hence, update its model. However, the cells and
   high performance batteries to de- WAAS was monitoring the performance
   velop very unique LAAS stations. Unlike of PRN 22 and immediately
   started to other hard-wired LAAS systems, these sta- transmit
   corrections so the user could continue to use PRN tions are
   battery/solar powered and self-contained. These 22 in its navigation
   solution. When the corrections ex- ìlow costî LAAS stations avoid the
   expensive installation ceeded the maximum value that it could transmit,
   at 10:14 costs associated with providing power and communica- p.m., the
   WAAS told its users to no longer use PRN 22 in a tions capability to
   remote locations around an airfield. A navigation solution. Users were
   given the ability to use simple concrete pad for each LAAS receiver
   station is the PRN 22 for an extra 6 minutes before it no longer could
   be only airfield preparation required. used for a reliable position fix
   by a WAAS augmented re- ceiver. The GPS MCS declared the navigation
   signal from Conducting these tests at OU has some significant ad- PRN
   22 unusable at 11:58 p.m. vantages. OU instructor pilots fly OU-owned
   aircraft at a bargain price. The close proximity to the Mike Monroney
   LAAS Testing at the Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City allows AFS-420
   personnel to supervise the flight-testing and analysis con- University
   of Oklahoma ducted at OU. By Dusty Somerville, GPS TAC / Flight
   Procedures Standards Although the testing is designed to collect data
   on flight Branch (AFS-420) technical error and navigation system error
   for use in es- S tablishing TERPS standards, experience with this
   leading ince August 2001, the University of Oklahoma (OU) has edge
   technology has yielded many other benefits. been conducting Category A
   and B flight-testing of LAAS. Their mission is to provide flight test
   data to support Mini- OU students and faculty have gained valuable
   expertise mum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) and pro- in
   satellite navigation systems, particularly GPS precision cedure
   criteria development by AFS-420. approaches since they began WAAS
   Figure 1.2 flight-testing in 1997. Lessons This is a cooperative effort
   between the learned from WAAS testing have Department of Aviation,
   which operates been applied to ongoing LAAS tests. the test aircraft,
   and the Department of They also perform the initial data Electrical and
   Computer Engineering, analysis so they can quickly identify which is
   responsible for conducting the trends or testing problems in accu-
   tests, collecting the data, and analyzing racy, integrity, or
   availability. Test the results. Dr. John Fagan, world-re- adjustments
   can be made after meet- 7 ings with FAA personnel to review the
   preliminary test re- RNAV Route Development sults. By Bob Brekke, GPS
   TAC / Western Pacific Region (AWP-520) Because OU is exclusively
   conducting Category A and B testing under typically windy Oklahoma
   flying conditions, they are in a unique position to evaluate the
   effects of tur- The Western-Pacific and Northwest Mountain Regions
   bulence in light airplanes on satellite navigation systems. have
   developed twenty-one Area Navigation (RNAV) off- Additionally, these
   tests provide critical feedback on the airway direct routes between key
   cities. The cities in- human factors of a single pilot conducting a
   SatNav ap- clude Seattle, Portland, and Vancouver in the Pacific proach
   in a light aircraft. Northwest, and Los Angeles, San Francisco, San
   Jose, Oakland, Ontario, Palm Springs, John Wayne-Orange Category A
   tests are flown in a Piper Seneca, while Cat- County, Las Vegas, and
   Phoenix in the Western-Pacific egory B tests are flown in a Rockwell
   Turbo Commander. A Region. The RNAV routes were developed in conjunc-
   low cost LAAS Gamma Navigator is combined with LAAS/ tion with Alaska
   Airlines as the lead carrier and the West- WAAS Multi-Mode Receiver and
   Ashtech truth system (a ern-Pacific and Northwest Regional National
   Airspace system that uses a Z-12 GPS-based precision surveying in-
   Review (NAR) Teams and Air Traffic Control Facilities. strument,
   utilizing two receiversóone on the ground at a The objective of these
   routes is to provide a seamless RNAV precisely surveyed location and
   the other in the aircraftó departure, en route, and arrival between the
   selected air- to record precise differential GPS signals which are then
   ports for all appropriately equipped RNAV aircraft. An- processed
   post-flight to determine the exact position of the nual savings,
   provided by Alaska Airlines, are projected aircraft with extreme
   accuracy). This test equipment has to approach more than $800,000. been
   mounted into a portable rack that allows quick equip- ment installation
   into either aircraft. This is an on-going effort that will continue in
   the North- west and Western-Pacific Regions to provide all RNAV- OU
   testing has already resulted in significant improvements equipped
   aviation customers with the benefits of this GPS to SatNav procedures,
   equipment, and specifications. For technology. example, their
   experience with small aircraft undergoing rapid position changes led to
   a change in MOPS from a 1 General Comments on Hz update rate to 5 Hz.
   They have developed statistical models that have been transferred to
   the FAA for incorpo- the Characteristics of ration into the Airspace
   Simulation and Analysis (ASAT) for TERPS model, which is a high
   fidelity computer simula- Test And Evaluation of tion, run by engineers
   in AFS-420. This models various aviation scenarios, and is used to
   examine the risk factors Augmented GPS for NAS of various approach
   configurations. OU personnel are also in a unique position to work with
   manufacturers to identify By Barry Billmann, FAA William J. Hughes
   Technical Center and correct any potential equipment hardware or
   software (ACT 360) problems. GPS/WAAS/LAAS implementation and
   utilization in the These tests have laid the groundwork for low-cost
   LAAS NAS involves gathering information on the performance
   installations worldwide, and have the potential to add pre- and
   perceptions of the aviation industry pilot regarding cision approach
   capability to hundreds of airports and thou- the new system. Total
   system performance evaluation must sands of aircraft throughout the
   United States and abroad. involve the pilot in the evaluation process
   and address these issues: For more information, please visit
   http://terps.faa.gov and http:/ Pilot assessment of the flyability of
   the new system. /www.ashtech.com/. 8 Pilot assessment of performance
   deviations from ex industry. Avionics must be available to validate
   WAAS isting systems. and LAAS system performance during Developmental
   Test Note: WAAS will provide four levels of approach ser- and
   Evaluation (DT&E) and Operational Test and Evalu- vice, versus the
   established standard of two levels of ation (OT&E). An example when
   this philosophy was service (precision and non-precision). These
   additional not used and the resulting negative impact on the system
   levels of service will provide a better fit of Standard Instru
   deployment, is presented below. Additionally, examples of ment Approach
   Procedure (SIAP) development to air the application of the philosophy
   and the benefits to the ports and heliports with existing SIAPs and
   enable the Program are cited, as well. FAA to provide IFR capability to
   airports/heliports that do not now have IFR service. However, new
   procedure An Example Where We Waited for Industry to Produce charting
   concepts must be evaluated, such as depiction of Certified Avionics
   distance to threshold with LAAS. Also, system require ments to support
   an entire new repertoire of cockpit an It was agreed to wait for the
   first TSO C129 receiver to be nunciations must be evaluated. certified
   prior to starting TERPS data collection for GPS Pilot assessment of the
   workload associated with the non-precision approach operations, since
   the GPS signal new navigation system. in space was already well
   established and being used with- Pilot assessment of the safety
   associated with the out augmentation. However, when testing began, the
   avi- new approach procedures. onics were totally incapable of
   supporting test require- ments. The following deficiencies existed in
   certified If the appropriate avionics are not available or the pilot
   equipment: perception and performance issues are not addressed, there
   The sensor could not provide adequate guidance is no commissioning of
   the system. on a ìTî procedure Leg segment switching logic did not
   provide usable In order to address both pilot and procedure factors,
   com- guidance at waypoint transitions pliant or near Minimum
   Operational Performance Standards Departures were in the database and
   could be flown, (MOPS) compliant avionics must be available. With GPS,
   but terminal operation integrity was not met and it augmentations, much
   more of the system processing The sensor could not fly an ìarcî overlay
   procedure is the responsibility of the airborne avionics than with
   clas- sical navigation systems. For example, ILS provides a sig- These
   problems required the manufacturer to issue ser- nal-in-space, which
   airborne avionics systems use as is. vice bulletins resulting in a
   significant delay and substan- However, for GPS (even unaugmented), the
   avionics must tial cost increase to the program. Other sensors that
   were evaluate the usability of the signal-in-space by applying
   certified, at the time, had significant human factors issues Receiver
   Autonomous Integrity Monitoring (RAIM) and/ associated with control and
   display. The FAA system safety or Aircraft Autonomous Integrity
   Monitoring (AAIM) tech- goal requires that such issues be addressed
   before com- niques. With GPS system augmentation (WAAS & LAAS),
   missioning. the burden of determination of system usability is signifi-
   cantly increased beyond basic GPS. For instance, WAAS Benefits that
   have been Derived when Avionics Devel- avionics must evaluate the
   signal-in-space and determine opment was Undertaken in Cooperation with
   Industry what type of one of four procedures may be flown. LAAS
   avionics must support a procedure selection process that is With both
   WAAS and LAAS, funding has been provided different than tuning an ILS
   and requires interaction with to acquire near MOPS compliant avionics
   to support the the LAAS ground facility. activities mentioned above. It
   must be noted that the avi- onics standards do not exist in a vacuum.
   With both WAAS Experience has shown that the development and acquisi-
   and LAAS, the FAA is fielding systems to augment the tion of compliant
   avionics must be done in cooperation with GPS constellation and control
   segment. Near MOPS com- 9 pliant avionics testing has resulted in
   numerous changes, configurations to estimate the height above-touch
   down not only to the avionics standards, but also to the augmented
   (HAT) for a future approach, based on actual or postu- system standards
   under test. In many cases, such as with lated approach design criteria.
   GAME then uses an air- message types 0, 1 and 27, the required changes
   were sys- port infrastructure database, in conjunction with the HAT tem
   changes; not just avionics changes. and the aircraft approach category,
   to estimate the visibil- ity minimum for the approach. This process can
   be re- Cooperative avionics development permits the FAA to col- peated
   for thousands of runway ends to compute the sta- lect representative
   flight test data enabling procedure de- tistics of the HAT and
   visibility minima, and to compare sign criteria to be available for
   commissioning. The biggest them with the statistics of minima resulting
   from other impact is the availability of avionics for flight
   inspection. approach design criteria, thus obtaining valuable insight
   Without certified avionics there is no flight inspection to into the
   impact of design criteria on airport access ben- support commissioning.
   Without flight inspection there is efits. Current GAME capabilities
   include LNAV (non- no commissioning. precision RNAV approaches),
   LNAV/VNAV, Instrument Landing System/Wide Area Augmentation
   System/Local Global Positioning Area Augmentation System
   (ILS/LAAS/WAAS) Category I, and several approach types that are still
   being devel- SystemApproach Minima oped by the FAA. Estimator(GAME)
   Navigation Workshop By Dr. S. Vincent Massimini, MITRE Corporation By
   Carol Wheeler, ANN TAC (AND-700) The MITRE Corporationís Center for
   Advanced Aviation The FAA Navigation Integrated Product Team (IPT),
   System Development (CAASD) has developed a software AND-700, opened the
   first National Navigation Commu- capability that assesses the benefits
   of potential instrument nity Workshop in San Antonio, Texas on Monday,
   Sep- approach procedures. The goal of the GPS (Global Posi- tember 10
   with registration beginning at 4:00 pm,. A re- tioning System) Approach
   Minima Estimator (GAME) is to ception followed registration, which
   provided two hours provide insight into the impact of approach design
   criteria of time for team members to renew acquaintances and on the
   expected minima at thousands of runway ends. meet new members. A total
   of 196 members of the Na- tional Navigation Community attended the
   workshop. Instrument approach procedures are designed according to The
   first day of the workshop was a General Session, in- Federal Aviation
   Administration (FAA) criteria. New sys- cluding all workshop
   participants. The Navigation Inte- tems, like the FAAís GPS Wide Area
   Augmentation System grated Product Team Lead, Jack Loewenstein, and IPT
   (WAAS), have opened the way for new thinking about the Staff Dennis
   Kolb made introductory and welcoming re- criteria for approach design.
   For example, the initial WAAS marks. A new video titled ìThe FAA,
   Proudly Serving procedures will provide a lateral/vertical navigation
   (LNAV/ the Air Navigation Communityî was shown and received VNAV)
   instrument approach capability, equivalent to that an enthusiastic
   response. The credits, for the excellent which is available from
   qualified baro-VNAV systems that production of this video, go to Mary
   Ann Davis, GPS TAC, use unaugmented GPS for lateral navigation and
   baromet- and Bill McDonald, ASU-400. The day continued with ric
   altimetry for vertical navigation. However, the LNAV/ several
   outstanding speakers. VNAV approach design criteria do not take
   advantage of the improved horizontal accuracy and integrity of the ini-
   Mr. Gerald Lavey, Executive Assistant to the FAA Ad- tial WAAS
   (relative to unaugmented GPS). So, the way is ministrator for Internal
   Communications was the keynote open to define new criteria with
   potentially better minima. speaker. Mr. Lavey has over 27 years service
   with the FAA GAME uses databases of terrain, obstructions, and runway
   and is highly respected within the community for his forth- 10 right
   style of communicating and reporting the agencyís On Wednesday,
   September 12, all participants selected activities. He provided
   examples of successes made by the one of four working sessions to
   attend. The four sessions dedication and hard work of the agencyís
   personnel that were divided into ìPolicy,î ìGeneral Issues,î
   ìTechnicalî does not get recognition in the press. He accurately out-
   and ìSatellite Navigation.î Each session was lead by a lined the
   challenges faced by the FAA to perform a monu- facilitator using a
   prepared agenda of topics to be briefed mental task with limited
   resources and acknowledged some and discussed. The agenda for each
   session was built from things could always be improved upon. He further
   stressed the issues recorded and compiled from the Navigation team the
   importance and need for diverse thinking, and warned visits to the FAA
   Regions and Centers earlier this year. not to allow preconceptions to
   stifle unification or creativ- Action items, agreements and significant
   discussion items ity. Last, he advised that knowledge management and
   were noted during the sessions and compiled into a report proper
   communications give people the power to operate to the entire group on
   the last day of the session. successfully and solve problems. As he
   left the podium he received a resounding thunder of applause and a
   standing The Deputy Navigation IPT Lead, Harry Kane closed the ovation
   from the team. workshop on September 13. Harry provided a compre-
   hensive summary of the accomplishments made during the Dr. Therman
   Evans, founder and CEO of WholeLife Asso- workshop and thanked everyone
   for their participation and ciates, was the workshop motivational
   speaker. Dr Evans the hard work done to make the workshop a success.
   received his M.D in 1971 from Howard University and is the recipient of
   several honors, recognitions, and awards. Each participant that
   attended the workshop will receive Dr. Evansís principle message
   centered on wellness, stress a compact disc (CD) that includes a copy
   of the video management, and dealing with change, which could not seen
   at the opening of the Workshop, a copy the briefings, have been more
   timely with the horrific events that were both from the General Session
   and the Working Groups, unfolding in New York and Washington, D.C. that
   morn- minutes and action items taken from each of the four work- ing.
   Some of the quotes and key points from Dr. Evans ing groups,
   participant list, and candid photographs cov- inspirational talk
   include ìBlessed are the flexible for they ering the three days of the
   workshop. shall never be bent out of shape,î ìtalk does not cook rice,î
   ìyou cannot change where you are unless you change what Code-Carrier
   Coherence you do,î ìnobody wants to be sick, but we choose the things
   that make us sick,î and ìpeople do not like change, even if (CCC)
   Monitor itís better for us; yet in the course of natural human life,
   everything changes.î These quotes quickly summarize a By Bill
   Klepczynski, GPS TAC / WAAS Team (AND-730) wonderfully detailed
   explanation of the impact of stress on our physical and emotional
   health and therefore the enjoy- The navigation signal coming from the
   GPS satellites ment of our work and play. Dr. Evans is a huge proponent
   has three components; the carrier wave (its phase and for taking time
   to play, in the midst of managing multiple frequency), the tracking
   codes (called pseudo-random responsibilities: Good words to remember!
   noise [PRN] codes) and the navigation message. Infor- mation on the
   satelliteís position is contained in the navi- Also on the agenda for
   the first day were Claire Robinson, gation message. The PRN code allows
   the user to deter- AOZ-500, who provided an overview on the on the NAS
   mine the range to a satellite. With the data contained in Operational
   Evolution Plan (OEP); Bob Wright, AFS-400, the navigation message,
   users can determine their posi- spoke on the ìFuture of Navigation;î
   Jack Nager, ANI-1, tion if the range to four satellites is measured.
   Some re- and Trevor Henry, ARN-200, addressed ìATS Challenges ceivers
   use the phase of the carrier to improve the accu- Today and in the Year
   2010; and Nelson Spohnheimer gave racy and precision of the computed
   range. As one can an excellent overview on the ìState of Navigation, A
   Re- imagine, the process by which a position is computed is a gional
   Perspective.î complex one. There are many factors that can influence 11
   the derived user position, including the properties of the change. The
   passage of the signal through the ionosphere atmosphere through which
   the GPS signals travel, the char- will cause a shift because the
   ionosphere is a dispersive acteristics of the various hardware
   components within the medium, but this phenomenon can be modeled.
   Multi- GPS satellite and the user receiver, as well as the nearby path,
   the reception of a reflected signal by the user re- surroundings of
   where the user receiver is located. Some of ceiver, will also cause
   this phenomenon, but this error is these errors can be overcome or
   mitigated by the differen- dependent on the location of the userís
   receiver. Multi- tial GPS process. However, some cannot because they
   are path manifests itself by a shift in the code-carrier phase unique
   to the user and the reference station. relation from its original one.
   The WAAS Integrity Performance Panel (WIPP) has been The second problem
   is called the SV19 Problem. In March dealing with two separate effects
   that could surreptitiously 1993, a GPS satellite, designated as SV19,
   transmitted an degrade the accuracy of the WAAS if not properly
   handled. anomalous signal (sometimes called an Evil Wave Form) Analysis
   has shown that it is possible to determine their that caused an error
   in the estimated ranges to that satel- presence with one algorithm
   (procedure) and take appro- lite to vary between 3 to 8 meters in
   differential GPS sys- priate action to mitigate their effects. This
   algorithm is tems. Two instrumental problems can cause this error.
   called the Code-Carrier Coherence (CCC) Monitor and First, the
   correlator in the satellite developed a minor glitch reports potential
   errors to the user in the form of the User that caused some parts of
   the PRN code to be elongated Differential Range Error (UDRE) broadcast
   by the WAAS. and some to be shortened. Second, the spacecraft
   correlator uses a different correlator spacing than the correlator in
   Before going into the problems, a very brief explanation of the user
   receiver. Any discrepancies or perturbations in how a receiver works
   might be useful. Within every GPS the PRN code sequence will affect the
   userís determina- spacecraft, there is a local oscillator (clock),
   which gener- tion of the range to the satellite. Upon further
   investiga- ates the frequency that gets multiplied up to the transmit-
   tion, it was apparent that, while this was the one and only ted
   frequency. There is also equipment that generates the known instance
   that such an error was observed, the sat- PRN code for each satellite
   through a device called a ellite design is such that it is possible
   that it could occur correlator. That code and the navigation data for
   that sat- again. This problem also manifests itself in a shift of the
   ellite are impressed on the transmitted signal. Thus, there code in the
   receiver correlator with respect to the original is a relation between
   the PRN code and the phase of the carrier phase. carrier frequency of
   the transmitted signal. The user re- ceiver has similar equipment that
   generates a PRN code The CCC algorithm looks at the difference between
   the and compares it with the received code. Through informa- phase and
   code of a signal from a GPS satellite obtained tion contained within
   the navigation message the user re- from all the WRE receivers tracking
   that satellite at the ceiver can determine the time at which the code
   left the same instant. It then forms a weighted average of the
   satellite and compare it with the time of its local clock and
   deviations for all the receivers viewing the satellite. If determine
   the travel time of the signal and, hence, the there is code-carrier
   coherence, i.e., no change in the range to the satellite. However, this
   range is not the actual relation between code and carrier, the average
   should be range to the satellite because many systematic effects af-
   near zero. In the presence of incoherence or divergence, fect it. These
   systematic effects must be taken into ac- the result will be non-zero
   and this number will represent count before the true range can be
   derived from this so- an error in the pseudo-range. It means that
   multi-path or, called pseudo-range. possibly, the SV19 problem affects
   one of the WRE receiv- ers. When this happens, the UDRE is bumped
   higher for The first problem that affects the accuracy of ranges to GPS
   that satellite to reflect the fact that there is a larger po-
   satellites deals with code-carrier divergence. Code-car- tential error
   associated with this satellite. The CCC al- rier divergence is a change
   in the relationship between the gorithm doesnít necessarily know what
   caused the larger PRN code and the phase of the carrier frequency. In
   theory error, code-carrier divergence or the SV19 problem, but it it
   should remain constant, but there are reasons why it could knows that
   something is wrong with the estimate for the 12 range for that
   satellite and lets the user know through a primarily outside the
   continental U.S., but by the early ìDonít Useî UDRE value. 1970ís, the
   Coast Guard had determined the LORAN-C system should be used as a
   federally provided maritime New Special Copter RNAV navigation system
   throughout the coastal areas of the United States. The system was
   expanded to provide cov- Approaches and Departure erage in the coastal
   waters of the continental U.S. and Alaska. Procedures Under Interest by
   the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Development In California led
   to additional installations that provided coverage throughout the
   continental U.S. Through the mid- to By Bob Brekke, GPS TAC / Western
   Pacific Region (AWP-520) late-1980ís the FAA also undertook the
   development of N requirements, procedures, and ground system support to
   ew Special RNAV Helicopter Instrument Approach and allow certification
   of LORAN-C system for use in the non- Departure Procedures, developed
   by Satellite Technology precision approach phase of navigation. Initial
   attempts Implementation, L.L.C. (STI), a non-federal source, and by
   user equipment vendors to achieve aviation certifica- approved by FAA,
   are in the final stages of coordination. tion disclosed the need for
   significant hardware and soft- ware improvements that primarily
   involved the need for These GPS-based procedures are Special RNAV
   COPTER improved aircraft antenna systems and advanced receiver
   approaches and departures to various hospital heliports in processing
   to take advantage of all available LORAN-C Northern California for a
   single-helicopter operator and are signals. These and other related
   problems produced short- not charted for the public. comings in the
   ìavailabilityî and ìcontinuity of serviceî parameters of the
   certification requirements. In total, there are six Special COPTER RNAV
   Approach Procedures and six Special COPTER RNAV Departures Despite the
   lack of certification, there was widespread Procedures in development
   that will serve area hospital use of ìVFR LORAN-Cî in the general
   aviation commu- heliports in the Sacramento Terminal Radar Control nity
   through the mid-1990s. However, as the Global Posi- (TRACON), Stockton
   TRACON, and Oakland Center tioning System (GPS) began to mature, users
   found a com- area. parable niche for this new system and a migration
   from LORAN-C began. The migration was accelerated when GPS-based
   enhancements will continue to be developed in the U.S. Government
   announced in its 1994 Federal the Western-Pacific Region for the
   vertical flight commu- Radionavigation Plan (FRP) plans to terminate
   LORAN- nity, so that the benefits of this technology can be realized C
   in the year 2000. by all RNAV equipped Rotorcraft operators. Following
   the 1994 FRP announcement, support to con- Results of Early LORAN-C
   tinue LORAN grew from some groups within the aviation community that
   resulted in directions from the U.S. Con- Modernization Testing gress,
   via the budgetary process. This resulted in the 1999 FRP announcement
   that LORAN services would continue By Mitch Narins, Systems Engineering
   (AND-702) ìin the short termî, while the merits of its long-term op- T
   eration are evaluated. Over the past several years, Con- he LORAN-C
   navigation system, developed by the U.S. gress has continued to provide
   substantial LORAN-C Department of Defense (DoD), has been operated by
   the funding to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) U.S. Coast
   Guard since the 1950ís. Initial installations were ($25M in FY 01) and
   has requested it to continue the development of LORAN. 13 In compliance
   with these Congressional mandates, the FAA and its diverse spectrum
   (between 90 kHz and 110 kHz), initiated a LORAN-C evaluation program to
   determine made it attractive for further exploration. whether LORAN
   could benefit aviation, and if so, by what means. While LORAN-C
   currently can be used as a sec- The problem ñ how could LORAN transmit
   the entire ondary navigation system in both terminal and enroute en-
   WAAS message at the 250 bit/second rate without signifi- vironments, it
   does not support the approach phase of flight. cant modification of the
   signal specification and, thereby, The FAA established an Interagency
   Agreement with the denial of service to existing legacy sers? U.S.
   Coast Guard (USCG), the operators of the LORAN system, and formed an
   evaluation team to help determine The FAA Navigation IPTís System
   Engineering Office and whether LORAN would be capable of providing
   lateral the U. S. Coast Guard LORAN Support Unit (LSU), in navigation
   (RNP.3) services to the National Airspace Sys- cooperation with
   Stanford University, are developing an tem (NAS) and/or other ancillary
   capabilities. enhanced LORAN-C Communications capability for Glo- bal
   Positioning System (GPS) integrity, and potentially for The FAAís Wide
   Area Augmentation System (WAAS) is GPS correction data. The LORAN
   Recapitalization the means by which differential GPS corrections will
   be Project LRP is a multi-year FAA/USCG initiative to mod- provided to
   aircraft operating in the NAS to support both ernize the U.S. LORAN-C
   system to meet present and lateral (LNAV) and vertical (VNAV)
   navigation. The future radionavigation requirements while leveraging
   current WAAS architecture includes geostationary satel- technology and
   funds to optimize operations, support and lites, which transmit
   differential correction messages to air- training, and reduce total
   cost of ownership. craft at L-band frequencies. WAAS messages are
   currently transmitted on the GPS L1 frequency for non-safety re- Very
   early analysis of the testing in Alaska appears to show lated services
   via two leased INMARSAT geostationary that transmission of WAAS data
   via LORAN at the re- (geo) satellites. It has always been known that
   the combi- quired 250 b/s is feasible and that use of all-in-view re-
   nation of high angles of elevation, or look angle, in some ceivers and
   H-field antennas are promising mechanisms northern areas of the NAS in
   combination with high ter- to allow LORAN to support lateral navigation
   within the rain elevation could cause masking of the WAAS geo sig- NAS.
   Although showing promise, much more work must nal. So, many
   alternatives are currently under investiga- be done before LORAN can be
   considered for broadcast- tion to solve this problem. ing the WAAS
   corrections in areas that canít receive the WAAS corrections via the
   WAAS geos. LORAN is one of those alternatives that are being studied to
   solve this masking issue. LORANís significant coverage Stay tuned for
   further developments. For more information on of the NAS (see Fig. 1),
   its robust signal (400 ñ 1600 kW) this research, including the current
   status of this project, please visit
   http://www.uscg.mil/hq/lsu/webpage/projects.htm, choose the desired
   time period, and reference the FAA34: LO- RAN DATA CHANNEL
   COMMUNICATIONS project. Figure 1 ñ Loran C Navigation Coverage 14 The
   Lighter Side The Lighter Side The Lighter Side The Lighter Side The
   Lighter Side Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue,
   SW Washington, DC 20591 http://gps.faa.gov
