http://crapo.senate.gov/pressreleases/2001/December/pr12052001.htm

   [USEMAP:flag_front_page_contents.jpg]

                                 [crapo.gif]

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                                 CONTACTS:      Susan Wheeler

                                                                               (202) 224-5150
December 5, 2001

                                                                              Lindsay Nothern

                                                                               (208) 334-1776

      CRAPO AND CRAIG JOIN OVERWHELMING MAJORITY IN SUPPORT OF RAILROAD
                           RETIREMENT IMPROVEMENT

        Legislation to modernize current system passes by wide margin


   Washington, DC - Legislation that will improve the railroad retirement
   system overwhelmingly passed the U.S. Senate this morning on a vote of
   90 to 9. Idaho's Senators Mike Crapo and Larry Craig voted in favor of
   H.R. 10, the Railroad Retirement and Survivors' Improvement Act. The
   bill improves the financing and benefits of railroad retirement by
   allowing the industry to increase investment earnings on railroad
   retirement assets. It makes changes to early retirement eligibility. It
   would also ensure that a spouse is guaranteed no less than the amount
   of the annuity that the retiree was receiving in the month before
   death. The measure is identical to the House-passed version of the
   railroad retirement bill that passed the House on July 31, 2001, on a
   vote of 384 to 33.

   Craig said, "Thousands of working men and women and their dependents
   have waited patiently for today's Senate action, and as a long-time
   cosponsor of this railroad retirement reform, I am pleased that we have
   moved it closer to enactment. This bill is an enormous step in the
   right direction that will aid both railroads and current and retired
   workers and their families. Allowing the same kinds of investment
   options that other pension plans enjoy will ensure a railroad
   retirement system that is more secure and more affordable, while
   providing better benefits."

   Crapo said, "This was a bipartisan vote that will go down as a victory
   for railroad workers throughout the country. As I have visited with
   those who work in the yards throughout Idaho, they have been adamant
   about the need for these improvements. This bill will certainly result
   in economic stimulus in railroad communities like Pocatello and Nampa
   and throughout the country, and that couldn't happen at a better time.
   I am pleased to support the effort to ensure improved retirement
   benefits for workers and survivors of retirees."

   Crapo and Craig are both co-sponsors of the legislation. It is
   estimated that the improvements contained in the bill will increase
   surviving spouse benefits by an average of $300 a month, and will allow
   railroad workers over the age of 60 with 30 or more years of service to
   retire with unreduced retirement benefits. It also allows younger
   workers to receive full vesting in the program after five years of
   employment rather than the current ten. If signed into law, the
   legislation would be effective at the beginning of 2002.

                                    # # #

      This page was updated on 01/07/2002 .  Contact Webmaster with any
                           comments or suggestions
