http://dhcd.dc.gov/services/home.shtm

   Welcome to Washington, DC

   Home
   Citizen Services
   Business Services
   Mayor's Office
   Mayor's Scorecards
   DC Council
   City Goverment
   Visitor Information
   Mayor Anthony A. Williams

   Housing and Community Development

   DHCD HOME
   SERVICES
   Economic Development
     Opportunities
   Homeownership
     Opportunities
   Support Services
   INFORMATION
   Calendar
   Partners
   Publications
   ONLINE SERVICE
     REQUESTS



   Homeownership Opportunities

   DHCD provides a number of incentives to individuals who buy houses in
   the District and to developers who build housing for low and moderate
   income buyers. For information on any of these programs, Ask the
   Director or call (202) 442-7200.
     * DC Employer Assisted Housing Program
     * DC Metropolitan Police Housing Assistance Program
     * First Right Purchase Assistance Program
     * Handicapped Access Improvements Program
     * Home Purchase Assistance Program
     * Homeownership Developers Incentive Fund
     * Homestead Housing Preservation Program
     * Single Family Residential Rehabilitation Program
     * Senior Citizen Home Repair and Improvement Program

   DC Employer Assisted Housing Program (EAHP)
   The DC Employer Assisted Housing program provides grants and deferred
   loans of up to $11,500 to employees of the District of Columbia
   government who are first-time homebuyers in Washington, DC.

   DC Metropolitan Police Housing Assistance Program
   The DC Metropolitan Police Housing Assistance program provides up to
   $10,000 in deferred loans for down payment and closing cost assistance
   to members of the Metropolitan Police Department. The program also
   provides tax incentives in the form of income tax credits and real
   property tax abatements.

   First Right Purchase Assistance Program
   The First Right Purchase Assistance program provides direct short-term
   and permanent-financing loans to low and moderate-income individuals
   and tenant groups to exercise their rights under the Districts First
   Right to Purchase law. Loans may be used for earnest money deposits,
   actual purchase of property, interim rehabilitation financing,
   operating costs, or for "soft costs" such as legal, architectural,
   engineering, and other technical services related to the purchase of a
   property. First Right Purchase loans may be converted to or used to
   provide permanent financing for cooperative purchasers on any
   properties in Washington, DC In addition, the program provides funds
   for application review, tenant certification, and related program
   administration activities.

   Handicapped Access Improvements Program
   The Handicapped Access Improvements program provides assistance to
   install improvements necessary to provide barrier-free living
   environments in houses occupied by individuals with physical
   disabilities.

   Home Purchase Assistance Program (HPAP)
   The Home Purchase Assistance program provides interest-free and
   low-interest loans to qualified residents, which enables them to
   purchase houses, condominiums, or cooperative apartments. Residents who
   are accepted into the three-tiered program are eligible for loans to
   meet down payment and closing cost requirements. The loan amounts are
   based on a combination of factors, including income, household size,
   and the amount of assets that each applicant must commit toward a
   propertys purchase price. Loans provided are subordinate to private
   first trust mortgages.

   Homeownership Developers Incentive Fund
   The Homeownership Developers Incentive Fund program provides grants to
   Community Development Corporations and other nonprofit development
   entities to help lower the cost of units developed by nonprofits so the
   units are affordable to low and moderate-income purchasers.

   Homestead Housing Preservation Program
   The Homestead Housing Preservation program enables first-time
   homebuyers to purchase tax delinquent real properties and Department of
   Housing and Community Development foreclosures for as little as $250
   per unit. In exchange, the homebuyer must complete a homeownership
   training course, rehabilitate the property, reside in the property for
   a minimum of five years, and return it to the real property tax rolls.
   Low and moderate-income participants receive a $10,000 deferred
   mortgage to assist them with gap financing.

   Single Family Residential Rehabilitation Program
   The Single Family Residential Rehabilitation program is a source of
   low-cost financing for the rehabilitation of 1-4 unit residential
   housing, which is either owner-occupied or investor-owned and located
   primarily in designated Community Development Areas and Enterprise
   Communities. The program provides low-interest, amortized loans for up
   to 20 years, depending on the financial circumstances of the borrower
   and the amount of rehabilitation required to correct code deficiencies.

   Senior Citizen Home Repair and Improvement Program
   The Senior Citizen Home Repair and Improvement program provides
   deferred loans to elderly homeowners to make emergency home repairs for
   housing deficiencies that threaten their health and safety.

   Directory by Topic
   Elected Officials
   Contact and Services
   Search
   Events
   DC Government Agencies

   Click Here To Visit The Official Website of the Government of the
   District of Columbia Government of the District of Columbia
   John A. Wilson Building
   1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20004
   Citywide Call Center: (202) 727-1000
   Feedback & Comments | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions of Use
