http://www.oic.gov/SMALTZ/app.htm

                          [ISMAP:navbar.gif]-NAVBAR
   [attgen.gif]

                                 O.I.C. logo

                       UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                    FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                        INDEPENDENT COUNSEL DIVISION


   In re ALPHONSO MICHAEL (MIKE) ESPY    NO- 94-2

   APPLICATION TO THE COURT PURSUANT TO 28 U.S.C. § 592(e)(1)
   FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF AN INDEPENDENT COUNSEL

      In accordance with the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of
   1994 ("the Act"), I hereby apply for the appointment of an Independent
   Counsel to investigate whether any violations of federal criminal law
   were committed by Secretary of Agriculture Alphonso Michael (Mike)
   Espy, and to determine whether prosecution is warranted.

      Background. On March 17, 1994, there was a press report that Tyson
   Foods, Inc., a major poultry processing corporation headquartered in
   Arkansas, was receiving lenient treatment from the Department of
   Agriculture on a number of pending regulatory issues. The article also
   described a number of alleged gratuities received by Secretary Espy.
   Based on the article, the Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector
   General conducted an inquiry into the alleged gratuities, and
   subsequently, on April 19, 1994, referred to the Department of Justice
   allegations that Secretary Espy may have violated 21 U.S.C. § 622, the
   anti-gratuity provision of the Meat Inspection Act, by accepting gifts
   from Tyson Foods.

      At the time of the Department's receipt of these allegations, the
   Independent Counsel Act had not yet been reauthorized, following its
   lapse in December 1992. The Department's Public Integrity Section
   investigated the allegations. I have reviewed the investigative
   findings in light of the strictures and procedures of the Act, as
   signed into law an June 30, 1994, and I conclude, within the meaning of
   the Act, that "there are reasonable grounds to believe that further
   investigation is warranted" of allegations that Secretary Espy violated
   a federal criminal law other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or an
   infraction^1.28 U. S. C. § 592 (9) (1) (A) .

      Gifts Accepted by Secretary Espy. Investigation developed evidence
   that Secretary Espy

      accepted gifts from Tyson Foods in the course of two separate trips,
   one to Arkansas in may 1993 and one to Texas in January 1994. The gifts
   fall into the categories of entertainment, transportation, lodging and
   meals. In total, the gifts amount to at least several hundred dollars
   in value.

      In addition to the alleged gifts from Tyson Foods, the Department's
   investigation also included preliminary reviews of other instances in
   which Secretary Espy allegedly received gifts from organizations and
   individuals with business pending before the Department of Agriculture.

      1. The Act permits the Department to take up to 30 days before
   commencing a preliminary investigation, 28 U.S.C. § 591(d)(2), and to
   conduct a preliminary investigation for up to 90 additional days before
   determining whether the appointment of an Independent Counsel is
   required, id § 592(a)(1). However, the Act does not require the
   Department to wait until the and of the 90-day preliminary
   investigation period before seeking the appointment of an Independent
   Counsel. In this case, based upon the current status of the
   Department's investigation, the Department has concluded that the
   matter requires "further investigation," within the meaning of the Act,
   by an Independent Counsel.

       Applicable Statutes. The facts established by the Department's
   investigation represent potential violations by Secretary Espy of 21
   U.S.C. § 622 and 18 U.S.C. § 201(c).

      Title 21, United States Code, Section 622 is a strict anti-gratuity
   statute which prohibits any Department of Agriculture employee or
   officer with responsibilities under the Meat Inspection Act from
   accepting any gift from any person engaged in commerce, without regard
   to the intent of the donor or the donee. Subsequent judicial
   interpretation of this law, and a Memorandum of Understanding reached
   between the Department of Justice and the Department of Agriculture in
   July 1976, have limited somewhat the broad sweep of the law. It is now
   clear that a gift does not violate the statute if it is motivated by a
   personal or family relationship, or if it is trivial in value, such as
   soft drinks, coffee, pencils and coffee cups. However, the acceptance
   of non-trivial gifts of entertainment, transportation, lodging and
   meals by a Department of Agriculture official who has responsibilities
   under the Meat Inspection Act, from an entity that is subject to
   regulation by the Department of Agriculture, falls within the purview
   of the statute.

      The other statute at issue is Title 18, United States Code, Section
   201(c), the general gratuity statute. Section 201 requires proof that a
   gift was given for or because of official acts. No evidence has been
   developed during the investigation suggesting that Secretary Espy
   accepted the gifts as a reward for, or in expectation of, his
   performance of official acts. However, under the Independent Counsel
   Act, the Department of Justice may not decline to seek the appointment
   of an independent counsel on the ground of a lack of evidence of the
   requisite state of mind "unless there is clear and convincing evidence
   that the person lacked such state of mind." 28 U.S.C. §
   592(a)(2)(B)(ii).

      Strictures of the Act. In order to ensure that prosecutive decisions
   are made without any possible appearance of conflict of interest, the
   Act places significant constraints on the Department's ability to
   exercise its customary prosecutorial discretion when investigating a
   person under the Act. The Department must apply for the appointment of
   an Independent Counsel whenever information in the Department's
   possession presents a potential violation of federal criminal law other
   than a Class B or Class C misdemeanor or an infraction, and "there are
   reasonable grounds to believe that further investigation is warranted."
   28 U.S.C. § 592(c). The Act removes from the Department the power to
   use traditional investigative tools such as the grand jury to further
   develop the facts. 28 U.S.C. § 592(a)(2)(A). It should be left to the
   Independent Counsel to exercise prosecutorial discretion and to
   determine whether additional investigation and/or prosecution is
   warranted in this matter.

      Attorney General's Finding. In light of the strictures and
   procedures of the Act, I hereby apply for the appointment of an
   Independent Counsel because I conclude, under the Act, that "there are
   reasonable grounds to believe that further investigation is warranted"
   of allegations that Secretary Espy violated a federal criminal law
   other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or an infraction. 28 U.S.C. §
   592(c)(1)(A).

      The Department of Justice is in possession of investigative
   materials and relevant documentation which it will make available to
   the Independent Counsel.

      Recommended Jurisdiction. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 593 (b)(3), I
   recommend and request that the Special Division of the Court grant the
   Independent Counsel jurisdiction to investigate Secretary Espy's
   possible violation of federal criminal laws such as 21 U.S.C. § 622 and
   18 U.S.C. § 201, by accepting gifts from organizations or individuals
   regulated by the Department of Agriculture, and to determine whether
   prosecution is warranted. The Independent Counsel should be given all
   the power, authority and obligations outlined in 28 U.S.C. § 594. In
   this connection, I have appended hereto a recommended statement of the
   scope of prosecutorial jurisdiction for the Independent Counsel.

   Respectfully submitted



   Janet Reno

   Attorney General of the United States

   RECOMMENDED STATEMENT OF JURISDICTION OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL

      The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   investigate to the maximum extent authorized by the Independent Counsel
   Reauthorization Act of 1994 whether Alphonso Michael (Mike) Espy,
   Secretary of Agriculture, has committed a violation of any federal
   criminal law, other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or infraction,
   relating in any way to the acceptance of gifts by him from
   organizations or individuals with business pending before the
   Department of Agriculture.

      The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   investigate other allegations or evidence of violation of any federal
   criminal law, other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or infraction, by
   any organization or individual developed during the Independent
   Counsel's investigation referred to above, and connected with or
   arising out of that investigation.

      The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   investigate any violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1826, or any obstruction of
   the due administration of justice, or any material false testimony or
   statement in violation of federal criminal law, in connection with any
   investigation of the matters described above.

      The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   seek indictments and to prosecute any organizations or individuals
   involved in any of the matters described above, who are reasonably
   believed to have committed a violation of any federal criminal law
   arising out of such matters, including organizations or individuals who
   have engaged in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any
   federal offense.

      The Independent Counsel shall have all the powers and authority
   provided by the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994.


                                 Back to top


   [order.gif]

                                 O.I.C. logo

                            ORDER OF APPOINTMENT

                       UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS

                    FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

    Division for the Purpose of Appointing Independent Counsels Ethics in
                     Government Act of 1978, As Amended

   In re: In re Alphonso Michael (Mike) Espy            Division No. 94-2

   Order Appointing Independent Counsel

   Before: SENTELLE, Presiding, and BUTZNER and SNEED, Senior Circuit
   Judges.

   Upon consideration of the application of the Attorney General pursuant
   to 28 U. S. C. § 592 (1) (A) for the appointment of an independent
   counsel with authority to exercise all the power, authority and
   obligations set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 594, to investigate whether
   Alphonso Michael (Mike) Espy, Secretary of Agriculture, has committed a
   violation of any federal criminal law, other than a Class B or C
   misdemeanor or infraction, relating in any way to the acceptance of
   gifts by him from organizations or individuals with business pending
   before the Department of Agriculture; it is

   ORDERED by the Court in accordance with the authority vested in it by
   28 U.S.C. § 593(b) that Donald C. Smaltz Esquire, of the Pennsylvania
   and California bars, with offices at Smaltz & Anderson, 333 South Grand
   Ave., Suite 3580, Los Angeles, California 90071, be and is hereby
   appointed Independent Counsel with full power, independent authority,
   and jurisdiction to investigate to the maximum extent authorized by the
   Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994 whether Alphonso
   Michael (Mike) Espy, Secretary of Agriculture, has committed a
   violation of any federal criminal law, other than a Class B or C
   misdemeanor or infraction, relating in any way to the acceptance of
   gifts by him from organizations or individuals with business pending
   before the Department of Agriculture.

   The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   investigate other allegations or evidence of violation of any federal
   criminal law, other than a Class B or C misdemeanor or infraction, by
   any organization or individual developed during the Independent
   Counsel's investigation referred to above and connected with or arising
   out of that investigation.

   The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to
   investigate any violation of 28 U.S.C. § 1826 or any obstruction of the
   due administration of justice, or any material false testimony or
   statement in violation of federal criminal law, in connection with any
   investigation of the matters described above.

   The Independent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to seek
   indictments and to prosecute any organizations or individuals involved
   in any of the matters described above, who are reasonably believed to
   have committed a violation of any federal criminal law arising out of
   such matters, including organizations or individuals who have engaged
   in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any federal
   offense.

   The Independent Counsel shall have all the powers and authority
   provided by the Independent Counsel 'Reauthorization Act of 1994. It is

   FURTHER ORDERED by the Court that the independent Counsel as authorized
   by 28 U.S.C. § 594, shall have prosecutorial jurisdiction to fully
   investigate and prosecute the subject matter with respect to which the
   Attorney General requested the appointment of independent counsel, as
   hereinbefore set forth, and all matters and individuals whose acts may
   be related to that subject matter, inclusive of authority to
   investigate and prosecute federal crimes (other than those classified
   as Class B or C misdemeanors or infractions) that may arise out of the
   above described matter, including perjury, obstruction of justice,
   destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.

   It further appearing to the Court in light of the Attorney General's
   motion heretofore made for the authorization of the disclosure of her
   application for this appointment pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 592(e) and of
   the ongoing public proceedings and interest in this matter, that it is
   in the best interests of justice for the identity and prosecutorial
   jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel to be disclosed,

   IT IS SO ORDERED.

   Per Curiam

   For the Court

   Ron Garvin, Clerk


                                 Back to top


                          [ISMAP:navbar.gif]-NAVBAR
