http://edworkforce.house.gov/press/press107/accomplishments121801.htm

              News from the
              Committee on Education and the Workforce
              John Boehner, Chairman
              FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
              December 18, 2001    CONTACTS: Dave Schnittger or
                                    Heather Valentine
                                   Telephone: (202) 225-4527

      Boehner Highlights Committee Accomplishments on Education Reform,
                   Patients’ Rights, Retirement Security


        WASHINGTON, D.C.
   -- House Education & the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner
   (R-OH) today highlighted three of the committee’s major accomplishments
   during the first session of the 107th Congress, specifically citing
   passage of President Bush’s No Child Left Behind education reforms as
   well as House passage of the bipartisan Patients Bill of Rights and the
   Retirement Security Advice Act.

   Chairman John A. Boehner      “Republicans on the House Education and
   the Workforce Committee have worked tirelessly this year for the
   reforms the American people care most about,” Boehner said. “From
   education reform to patients’ rights and retirement security, House
   Republicans have moved forward with America’s agenda and made great
   progress amid great challenges.”

        “President Bush’s bipartisan education reforms should make a real
   difference in the lives of parents, teachers, and most important of
   all, our nation’s children,” said Boehner. “They offer new hope for
   students in failing schools and significantly expand options for
   parents who want the best education possible for their children. They
   will give new freedom for teachers and school districts to meet higher
   expectations, and enable all our children to learn and succeed.”

        “President Bush, Dr. [Charlie] Norwood, and Dr. [Ernie] Fletcher
   deserve great credit for forging a compromise on a patients’ bill of
   rights where many had believed agreement was not possible,” continued
   Boehner. “For the first time ever, the House passed a patients’ bill of
   rights that protects patients and increases access to Americans who
   remain without health insurance.”

        “The Retirement Security Advice Act gives workers the tools they
   need to maximize their retirement savings,” said Boehner. “The vast
   majority of American workers receive no guidance on how best to
   structure their retirement accounts, and most can’t afford to pay for
   it out of pocket. House passage of the bill this year is a major step
   forward in helping workers receive the kind of high quality advice that
   will help them secure their retirement future.”

        A summary of the three major accomplishments is included below:

        President Bush’s No Child Left Behind Education Reforms.  On
   December 13, the House approved, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of
   381-41, the final version of President George W. Bush’s education
   reform legislation, the No Child Left Behind Act (H.R. 1). The most
   significant federal education reforms in a generation are now ready for
   Senate approval, then President Bush’s signature. The measure is a
   comprehensive overhaul of the 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education
   Act emphasizing the President’s four principles of reform:
   accountability, expanded options for parents, local control and
   flexibility, and funding for what works.

        House Passes Bipartisan Patient Protection Measure.  Ending six
   years of congressional gridlock on the difficult issue of HMO patient
   protection, in August the House approved a compromise patients’ bill of
   rights negotiated by President Bush and two members of the House
   Education & the Workforce Committee, Dr. Charlie Norwood (R-GA) and Dr.
   Ernie Fletcher (R-KY).

        The House-passed patients’ bill of rights would hold HMOs
   accountable while preventing frivolous, unlimited lawsuits against
   employers and unions who voluntarily provide health coverage to
   families. The measure also would give patients a rapid medical review
   process for disputed denials of care, ensuring that independent doctors
   and physicians -- not lawyers or HMO bureaucrats -- will make medical
   decisions.

        House Passes Measure to Help Workers Receive High Quality
   Investment Advice.  On November 15, the House passed H.R. 2269 -- the
   Retirement Security Advice Act -- by a vote of 280-144, with the strong
   bipartisan support of 64 Democrats. The bill would allow employers to
   provide their workers with access to professional investment advice as
   long as the advisers fully disclose any fees or potential conflicts,
   while establishing important safeguards to ensure that workers receive
   advice solely in their best interests. The measure would give workers
   the information they need to maximize their retirement savings.

                                  # # # # #

                               Press Releases
