http://cjp.ca.gov/commorg.htm


  calseal3.gif (18451 bytes)

                                                       State of California
                                               Commission on Judicial Performance

                                                     scales.wmf (2902 bytes)



                  COMMISSION ORGANIZATION, STAFF AND BUDGET

   Commission Organization and Staff

   The commission employs a staff of 27, including 16 attorneys and 11
   support staff.  All commission staff are state employees.

   The director-chief counsel heads the agency and reports directly to the
   commission.  The director-chief counsel oversees
   the intake and investigation of complaints and the Commission
   examiners' handling of formal proceedings.  The
   director-chief counsel is also the primary liaison between the
   commission and the judiciary, the public and the media.
   Victoria B. Henley has served as director-chief counsel since 1991.

   The commission's legal staff is responsible for the evaluation and
   investigation of complaints.  Three attorneys are primarily
   responsible for reviewing and evaluating new complaints, and seven
   attorneys are primarily responsible for conducting
   staff inquiries and preliminary investigations.

   Four trial counsel serve as examiner during formal proceedings.   The
   examiner is responsible for preparing cases for hearing
   and presenting the evidence that supports the charges before the
   special masters.  The examiner handles briefing regarding
   special masters' reports, and presents cases orally and in writing in
   hearings before the commission and the California
   Supreme Court.

   Commission counsel reports directly to the commission.   Commission
   counsel is responsible for coordination of formal hearings
   and is solely responsible for assisting the commission in its
   deliberations during its adjudication of contested matters.
   Commission counsel does not participate in the investigation or
   prosecution of cases.  Richard G.R. Schickele has served as
   commission counsel since July of 1998.

   The Commission's Budget

   For the current fiscal year, 2001-2002, the commission's budget
   allocation is $3,976,000.

   During the 2000-2001 fiscal year, approximately 32% of the commission's
   budget supported the intake and investigation
   functions of the commission and approximately 22% of the commission's
   budget was used in connection with formal proceedings.
   The remaining 46% went toward sustaining the general operations of the
   commission, including facilities, administrative staff,
   supplies, and security.

   As mandated by the California Constitution, article VI, section 18(1),
   the commission's budget is separate from the budget
   of any other state agency or court.


                         2000 - 2001 Budget Expenses
                     (Actual Expenditures - $3,491,645)

   [Image11.gif]

          [ Top of Page ]       [ Home ]
