http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/fishing.html

                                                                Home Index

                             Fishing at Coe Park

                               [greenline.gif]

    [fish01.jpg] As you may have heard, Coe Park has great fishing, with
   largemouth bass, green sunfish, crappie, and bluegill in its lakes and
        ponds and elusive rainbow trout in the waters of its creeks.

                However, it's important for you to know that:
     * Coe Park has no lakes or creeks you can drive to
         (and)
     * the park has very steep, rugged terrain

   We feel obligated to stress the difficulties of Coe Park fishing trips
     because of misleading information people sometimes get from sources
    outside the park.  Crews from television shows and writers of popular
    books have occasionally been allowed to travel in vehicles to remote
       areas of the park to assess the fishing potential of lakes and
     creeks.  They often rave, without exaggeration, about the gorgeous
      landscapes and the great fishing in the backcountry, but fail to
    mention the difficulties of reaching such areas without the advantage
                                of vehicles.

     Most fishing ventures into Coe's backcountry require a considerable
    expenditure of time and energy.  To go beyond the relatively close-in
    lakes (Bass Pond and Frog Lake), you'll be faced with elevation gains
   (and losses) in thousands of feet.  Some of the best fishing is on the
   far east side of the park, at Paradise and Jackrabbit lakes and Mustang
   and Kingbird ponds, but it takes at least two days of hard traveling to
       get to those destinations and at least two days of even harder
                           traveling to get back.

    Coit Lake and Mississippi Lake, two well known fishing destinations,
   are relatively easier to reach.  But, to get from park headquarters to
    Coit Lake and back, you have to travel at least 23 miles and climb at
   least 4,200 feet, and to get to Mississippi Lake and back, you have to
            cover more than 22 miles and climb about 5,700 feet.

   If you'd like to fish in the less accessible areas of the park, without
    regret (and without having to be rescued), you should be in excellent
    physical shape and you should plan to spend one or two nights camping
         on the way in and one or two nights camping on the way out.

   Spring is the most pleasant season in the park, and it's also the best
     season for fishing.  Fall and winter, between storms, can be quite
    nice, but fishing is usually slow during the cooler months and during
   the hot months of summer.  If you visit the park in the winter, keep in
     mind that winter rain storms can quickly turn tranquil creeks into
      raging, impassable torrents.  If you visit in the summer, be well
    prepared for extremely hot, dry conditions.  Carry extra water; find
      out which springs, creeks, and reservoirs are reliable sources of
     summer water; wear a hat; and avoid hiking during the middle of the
                                    day.

    The following table provides information about popular fishing lakes
                           and ponds in the park.
      The mileages and elevation gains are for the most commonly taken
                                   routes.


   Destination Round Trip Fish
   Distance
   (in miles) Elevation Gain
   (in feet)
     Bass Pond 4.5 450 bass, bluegill
     Frog Lake
   (via Corral and Flat Frog trails) 5.5 500 bass, bluegill
     Frog Lake
   (via Monument Trail and the road) 3.0 1,000 bass, bluegill
     Mahoney Pond 15.5 2,350 bass, bluegill
     Hoover Lake 18.5 4,500 bass
     Mississippi Lake 22.0 5,700 bass
     Coit Lake 23.0 4,200 bass, bluegill, green sunfish,
   crappie, catfish
     Kelly Lake 24.0 3,700 bass, bluegill, green sunfish, crappie
     Kingbird Pond 34.5 8,300 bass
     Mustang Pond 40.0 8,550 bass
     Jackrabbit Lake 44.0 8,000 bass
     Paradise Lake 44.0 8,000 bass

     Fishing for Rainbow Trout.  These lovely native fish can be found in
     Coyote Creek and in the South Fork of Orestimba Creek in the
     northeast corner of the park.  The best trout fishing in Coyote
     Creek is in the upper stretches of the Middle Fork, where the water
     usually runs all year, starting a little above Poverty Flat and
     going northwest to the park's boundary.  Although trout used to be
     caught somewhat regularly in Mississippi Lake, the last catch
     reported in the lake was in 1986.

     All California fishing regulations apply in the park. If you're 16
        years old or older, you must have a valid California fishing
    license.  All park rules and regulations also apply.  If you're going
      to stay overnight in the backcountry, you must register and get a
                  backpacking permit at the Visitor Center.

    Please note that we strongly encourage catch-and-release fishing with
    barbless hooks.

   You can buy the 40-page booklet Fishing at Henry W. Coe State Park and
    a full trail and camping map of the park at the Visitor Center.   If
       you'd like, you can order the booklet, the map, or both by mail
                     (allowing two weeks for delivery).

                            Booklet only    $3.00
                            Map only        $3.50
                            Map and Booklet $6.50

                           Prices include postage.
    No self-addressed envelopes, please.  We have custom sized envelopes
                           for maps and booklets.
    Make your check payable to the Pine Ridge Association and send it to:

                          The Pine Ridge Association
                          P.O. Box 846
                          Morgan Hill, CA 95038

                               [greenline.gif]
                      Return  to the Coe Park home page
