http://www.familysupportcenter.maricopa.gov/dadscount.html

    Family Support Center
    Clerk of the Superior Court in Maricopa County
    Family Ties and Knots


      Articles  Ties & Knots Tying Up a Plan   Dads     Moms     Videos
                           Acknowledgements  Home

                                 DADS COUNT

   How do fathers parent? Is it different from the way mothers parent? If
   the child has a strong and secure bond with the mother, does the lack
   of father involvement really matter?

   A great deal of research has been conducted to address these questions.
   And the findings may surprise you.

   Children with fathers involved in their lives tend to make better
   grades in school. This is not an accident. Fathers more than mothers
   tend to put a priority on the child’s academic success.

   The child whose father is actively involved in his or her life also
   typically has fewer behavioral problems in school. Fathers are often
   more authoritative, focusing more on morality and discipline. Hence the
   child is less likely to reject or defy other authorities.

   For the same reasons, when the father is involved, the child is less
   likely to get in trouble with the law.

   When the father is involved, the child tends to have higher
   self-esteem. The importance of this effect can hardly be overstated.
   High self-esteem is a "universal resource." There is nothing
   researchers have been able to measure that people with high self-esteem
   don’t do better than those with low self-esteem! They do better in
   school. They do better as athletes. They do better in careers. They
   have more friends. They do better in dating. They even make better
   parents!

   When the father is involved, the child is less likely to be
   promiscuous. And, if female, the child is less likely to become
   pregnant out of wedlock. This is due partly to the father’s greater
   focus on morality and discipline, and partly to the child having higher
   self-esteem.

   Children who enjoy active involvement with their fathers also report
   higher career goals. These children actually achieve higher levels of
   occupational success.

   Visit MOMS COUNT TOO

   [shim.gif] [fsctop.gif]
