http://www.sst.nrel.gov/topics/new_mat.html

        Computer-Aided Search for New Materials Using Quantum-Mechanics

   Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the spectacular success that
   semiconductor-based high technology has had in the past 50 years is the
   tiny number of species (core materials) on which these technologies are
   based. Even considering a broad range of semiconductor
   devices—transistor, computer chips, solid state lasers, detectors,
   solar cells, light-emitting diodes, etc.—there are only about ten basic
   semiconductors (all belonging to the same crystal type!), that enables
   these strategic technologies. This is a strikingly narrow material
   base, considering the number of core materials that enable other
   technologies: e.g., the 10^3–10^5 species used in metallurgy, polymer
   technologies, biotech, and the pharmaceutical drug industry. Thus, it
   is entirely possible that we are currently missing the crucial
   breakthrough material for present-day and future electronic devices.
   But how is one to search for new stable materials? Even if one
   considers only two types of atoms, there are as many as 2**N crystal
   structures possible on a lattice with N sites. Even for N=35, this
   equals the number of stars in our galaxy! Theoretical physicists at the
   National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in Golden, Colorado have
   developed a new strategy that enables one, using fast computers and
   concepts from Quantum Mechanics to search this astronomic space of
   possibilities for the "winning combination" of atoms producing novel,
   stable crystal structures. This approach—Linear Expansion in Geometric
   Objects (LEGO)—is based on the recognition that even complex crystal
   structures can be viewed as a collection of simple Geometric Objects
   such as pairs of atoms (dumbbells), triangles of atoms, etc. By
   assigning to each Geometric Object an (quantum-mechanical) energy
   value, one can rapidly scan hundreds of thousands of candidate
   structures (obtained by different assemblies of the Geometric Objects),
   looking for the one with the lowest overall energy. This LEGO approach
   has already predicted a number of previously unsuspected intermetallic
   compounds, that were missed by the conventional approach of
   trial-and-error. This could revolutionize the way in which novel
   materials are sought.

                    "Linear Expansion in Geometric Objects":
                        Recent Application and Advances

     * The LEGO method was applied to predict, from first principles, the
       electrochemical potential of a Li battery (C. Wolverton and
       A. Zunger, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 606 (1998)).
     * Previously-unsuspected ordered phase of Cu[7]Pt was predicted and
       subsequently observed experimentally (see "online LEGO
       presentation").
     * Three previously ordered structures of Pd-Pt were predicted:
       Pd[3]Pt(L1[2]), PdPt(L1[1]), and PdPt[3](L1[2]). Experimental
       testing is awaited (see "online LEGO presentation").
     * Novel, previously unknown phases of Rh-Pt are predicted: D1[a],
       D0[22], X2, and "40" (see "online LEGO presentation").
     * Size- and temperature dependence of precipitate shpaes are
       predicted for Al-Zn: Based on a detailed study abou the coherent
       phase stability of Al-Zn (S. Müller, L.-W. Wang, Alex Zunger, and
       C. Wolverton, Phys. Rev. B 60, 16448 (1999)), the relation between
       sizes and shapes as a function of temperature was predicted in
       remarkable agreement with experiment, and explained in terms of
       energetics. We found that although the precipitates are created by
       an inherently kinetic heat treatment process, the entire series of
       their size vs. shape realtion can be explained in terms of
       thermodynamic arguments and understood in terms of strain and
       chemical energies (S. Müller, C. Wolverton, Lin-Wang Wang, and Alex
       Zunger, Acta. Mater., in press).
     * Time-dependence of the distribution of precipitate shapes and sizes
       are predicted: Beside the relation between size and shape of an
       individual precipitate, the size- and shape distribution as a
       function of aging time t and temperature T is essential to
       understand at which T and t the distribution of sizes and shpaes is
       most efficient in order to pin dislocations. For this, the "Linear
       Expansion in Geometric Objects" Hamiltonian was successfully used
       in a Kinetic Monte Carlo program. It turns out that the growth of
       precipitates follows the rules of classical Ostwald-ripening.
     * Low-temperature ground states are determined for Cu-Zn: a-brass is
       the most important phase of Cu-Zn. We find that at low temperature
       the system will order into a novel structure, so-called DO[23] (S.
       Müller and Alex Zunger, submitted to Phys. Rev. B).
     * Three low-temperature ground-states are detected in Ag-Pd: We were
       able to predict three low temperature ground-states at
       concentrations of 25%, 50%, and 75% Palladium and the corresponding
       coherent phase boundaries. This discovery will lead to an important
       addition in the existing phase-diagram of Ag-Pd.

Quantum-mechanical simulations able to predict precipitate shapes in metal
alloys

   The increased hardness of heat-treated alloys such as Al-Zn is due to
   formation of precipitates which act as obstacles to dislocation motion.
   The knowledge of sizes and shapes of precipitates is crucial for and
   understanding of strengthening mechanisms in metal alloys. For the
   first time, it is now possible to theoretically predict via
   quantum-mechanical "first-principles" simulations the experimentally
   observed size- and temperature- dependence of precipitate shapes in
   Al-Zn alloys using a parameter free model, know as LEGO, or "Linear
   Expansion in Geometric Objects" (a cluster expansion). Figure 1 shows
   the evolution of the Zn precipitate shape with temperature, for a given
   number of atoms. In agreement with experimental studies, we find that
   the precipitates change from a nearly spherical to a more hexagonal
   shape with decreasing temperature and increasing size. The direction in
   which the precipitates flatten is always the [111] direction. A
   quantitative measure for the observed "flattening" is the c/a ratio,
   shown schmatically in the bottom right picture of Fig. 1. In Figure 2
   we present a quantitative comparison between our simulations (given by
   lines) and different experimental studies (given by symbols) for two
   different temperatures. The excellent agreement demonstrates the
   unprecendented ability to predict precipitate shapes and sizes even
   without carrying our experiments.

                               [alzn_prec.gif]

   Fig. 1: Shape-dependence of coherent fcc-Zn precipitates as a function
          of the unber of Zn atoms and temperature in Al-Zn alloys.

                                [zinc_ca.gif]

        Fig. 2: Size-shape relatoin of Zn precipitates for two of the
     temperatures in Fig. 1. While the lines denote the results from our
    calculations, the points are taken from different experiments studies
                      done at T = 300 K and T = 200 K.

Online Presentation of LEGO methodology

   We have an online presentation describing the LEGO methodology in HTML

Selected References

    1. A. Zunger, "First Principles Statistical Mechanics of Semiconductor
       Alloys and Intermetallic Compounds," in NATO Advanced Study
       Institute on Statics and Dynamics of Alloy Phase Transformations,
       edited by P. Turchi and A. Gonis, Plenum Press, New York, 361-419
       (1994).

Other References

   For a listing of all SST references on the topic "Statistical Mechanics
   of Alloys", click on the "Get References" button below.
   Get References
